Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No. 11063-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 1, 1992
LAI Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs.)
US$1.00      = Bs. 69.30 (September 30, 1992)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT           - Average Daily Traffic
BMS           - Bridge Management System
CAVN          - Compania Venezolana de Navegacion
National Shipping Company
CVG           - Compania Venezolana de Guayana
Guayana Regional Corporation
DCV           - Direccion de Conservacion Vial
Road Maintenance Directorate
DGSVT         - Direccion General Sectorial de Vialidad Terrestre
General Directorate of Roads
IDB           - Inter-American Development Bank
INP           - Instituto Nacional de Puertos
National Port Agency
ERR           - Economic Rate of Return
MTC           - Ministerio de Transporte e Comunicaciones
Transport and Communication Ministry
PDVSA         - Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.
National Petroleum Company
PERL          - Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PMS           - Pavement Management System
SA            - Special Account
SAVA          - Servicio Autonomo de Vialidad Agricola
Autonomous Service for Agricultural Roads
SOEs          - State-Owned Enterprises
TAL           - Technical Assistance Loan
VOCS          - Vehicle Operating Cost Savings



VENEZUELA                             FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary ............................................. (i)
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......................                                                               1
A. Overview of the Transport System   ...........                 ........................  1
B. The Road Transport Industry  .         ......................................   1
C. Ports and Shipping  .............................................  2
D. Railways .............................................. 3
E. Sectoral Organization ............................................   3
F. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy  ...........                 .......................  4
I. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR .                  .........................................  5
A. The Road Network  .................5...................I'll...I   5
B. Road Administration, Decentralization, Concessions .........................  6
C. Financing and Cost-Recovery .          ......................................  7
D. Organization and Management ....................................... 8
E. Highway Planning and Programming  ...........                    .......................  9
F. Highway Maintenance Management ...........                     ........................  9
G. Investment and Maintenance Expenditures ..............................   10
H. Environmental Management  .              .....................................   11
m. THE PROJECT   .............................................                                             12
A. Project Origin, Rationale and Objectives ...............................   12
B. Project Description  ............................................    13
C. Project Cost and Financing  .         ......................................   17
D. Project Environmental Impact and Economic Evaluation  .....................  19
E. Project Risks .............................................                                         19
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   .                   ....................................   20
A. Institutional Responsibilities . ......................................  20
B. Organizational Arrangements   .           ....................................   20
C. Implementation Program  . ........................................   21
D. Procurement .............................................                                           24
E. Disbursements, Accounts and Auditing   ...............................  25
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan . .................................... 26
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                               ..............................   27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Venezuela during April-May 1992. The
mission comprised Messrs. Jacques Cellier (Task Manager, LAIIN) and Paul Autret (Pavement Specialist,
Consultant). Mr. Gerard Liautaud (Highway Engineer, LAIIN) contributed to the report. Mr. Jose Alonso-Biarge
(Peer Reviewer, LA3IN) provided technical advice. Ms. Joy Obialor provided administrative support. Messrs. Asif
Faiz, Vahram Nercissiantz, and Armeane Choksi are respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser,
and Department Director for the operation.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI. ANNEXES
1. Supportiny Tables and Charts
Tablesa:
1.1  Venezuela's Vehicle Fleet  ..................................  29
1.2  Road Densities in Latin America and Caribbean Countries ...............  30
1.3  Petroleum Products, Price Structure and Adjustment  ..................  31
1.4  Evolution of Road Expenditures, 1982-1992 ........................  32
1.5  Summary Results of Economic Evaluation of Expressway Projects ....           ......  33
1.6  Project Costs and Financing  .................................  34
1.7  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ............................  35
ch=:
1.1 Organization of the Ministry of Transport and Communications  ....          ........  36
2. Assessment of Network Condition .................................  37
3. Network Maintenance and Rehabilitation Strategies  ......................  40
4. Decentralization and Strengthening of Highways Management .43
5. Project Quantities and Cost Estimates . ...............................  51
6. First-Year Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Program ........          ...............  55
7. Economic Analysis of First-Year Program .58
8. Monitoring and Supervision Plan ..............            ....................  63
9. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..................  65
MC: IBRD No. 22154: Venezuela



VENEZUELA
IGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJEC
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowr: Republic of Venezuela
Executing
Agency:   The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC)
Amount:   US$150.0 million equivalent
Terms:    Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Objectives: The project's primary objectives are to: (a) rehabilitate and maintain the national paved
highway network; and (b) establish sustainable institutional mechanisms to ensure effective
road maintenance in the future within a framework of a decentralized road administration.
Other related objectives are to: (c) develop and implement policies and mechanisms for
adequate funding of road maintenance and efficient recovery of road costs; (d) encourage
private sector participation by contracting out routine maintenance activities and transferring
expressways to private concessionaires; (e) strengthen the road maintenance capabilities of
the operational road administration units, and the policy formulation, planning, and
monitoring systems of MTC's highway maintenance office; and (f) develop and improve
compliance with environmental standards in the transport sector, particularly for highways.
Project
Description The project would consist of: (A) a policy and institutional development program,
including technical assistance and training of staff, to: (a) prepare and implement a program
to decentralize the maintenance of the road network and help transfer management of
expressways to private concessionaires; (b) design and establish appropriate road cost-
recovery and maintenance funding policies and mechanisms; (c) develop and establish a
highway management system to help DGSVT prepare and monitor efficient highway and
bridge rehabilitation and maintenance strategies, standards, and programs; (d) formulate and
implement a plan to contract out maintenance; (e) strengthen the technical capacities of
MTC state directorates and state public works departments to manage and supervise road
maintenance contracts; and (f) establish a capability in MTC to develop, implement and
monitor environmental standards and guidelines for roads; (B) an investment program
consisting of the highest-priority highway and bridge rehabilitation and resurfacing
components of MTC/DGSVT's 1993-97 program, including the rehabilitationof about 3,000
km and the resurfacing of about 4,800 km of highways; and (C) a maintenance program
consisting of routine and periodic maintenance works, which would be fully funded with
local resources.
Project
Benefits:   The project, by helping to retard the deterioration of the highway system through improved
maintenance would: (a) avoid further losses of valuable capital invested in public roads; and
(b) contribute to growth in agriculture, industry and exports by substantially reducing the
cost of road transport. It would also contribute to: (c) enhanced accountability and more



ii
efficient use of public resources in the highway subsector; and (d) mitigation of adverse
environmental impacts of highway construction and maintenance.
Project
Risl&s:      Project risks include: ineffective management of project by MTC/DGSVT; inadequate
supervision of works and contracts by decentralized units; and insufficient allocation of
resources by the Government. In order to minimize these risks, the project includes:
(a) a well-defined project implementation program and organizational arrangements;
(b) strengthening of DGSVT's key planning and control responsibilities as well as
implementation capabilities of the decentralized units; and (c) a supervision and monitoring
plan with annual reviews of DGSVT's expenditure and funding programs, and a detailed
mid-term review of project implementation.
Estimated Project Costs and Financiny I/
(USS million equivalent)
Project Component                       Local       Foreign         Total          S
Highway Rehabilitation                    121.4         65.4         186.8          22
Highway Resurfacing                       94.5          50.9         145.4          17
Capacity Increase                          11.0          6.0          17.0           2
Bridge & Tunnel Rehab.                    66.6          35.8         102.4          12
Marling & SignaUing                        12.1          6.6          18.7           2
Routine & Emergency Maintenance           141.9         76.4         218.3          26
Engineering and Supervision               17.9           9.7          27.6           3
Technical Assist. & Training                8.9          4.8          13.7           2
Total Base Cost                          474.3         255.5         729.8          87
Physical Contingencies                    32.4          17.4          49.8           6
Price Contingencies                       39.3 21   12                604 
Total Project Cost                       546.0         294.0         840.0         100
Financing Plan
Government                               490.0           -           490.0          58
Inter-American Development Bank           56.0         144.0         200.0          24
World Bank                                  -          150.0         150.0          18
Total Fmancing                           546.0         294.0         840.0         100
Estimated Disbursements     FY93      FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97      FY98
Annual2/                    20        20        30         40         30        10
Cumulative                  20        40        70         110       140       150
I/ including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$168.0 milJion.
2/ including initial deposit of US$10.0 million into special account.
Rate of
Return:      The estimated economic rate of return for the first-year program  is 53%. The economic
rates of return for the remaining investments are expected to range from above 12% to
about 100%, with most of them exceeding 30%.



VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Overview of the Transport System
1.01   Road transport is the dominant mode of domestic transport in Venezuela; it accounts for almost
all cargo traffic (the main exceptions are petroleum and ore products), and for 99% of inter-city
passenger trips. It effectively serves the country's diversified and geographically dispersed pattern of
agricultural production and the short-distance passenger movements. The railway system is limited to a
240 km line to Puerto Cabello which carries about half a million tons of freight and 300,000 passengers,
and three special-purpose lines which serve the mining industry. Inland water transport, which historically
has played a major role, has lost its importance with the development of road transport, and is now
significant only for the export of minerals on the Orinoco.
1.02   The foreign trade of Venezuela amounts to approximately 35 million tons per year, excluding
petroleum. The national state-owned shipping line (CAVN) carries about 30% of Venezuela's exports and
45% of its imports. The maritime trade is handled through: (a) eight public ports which until recently
were owned and operated by the national ports agency (INP) and are being transferred under the
responsibility of the states and municipalities; (b) industrial terminals on the Orinoco River serving
Guayana Regional Corporation (CVG); (c) other private industrial terminal serving single industries,
located primarily on the North Coast and Lake Maracaibo; and (d) the petroleum terminals operated by
PDVSA. The INP ports handle roughly 10 million tons of cargo annually, but this represents 90% of the
general cargo and virtually all the containerized traffic. Two INP ports, Puerto Cabello and La Guaira,
handle most of this traffic.
B. The Road Transport Industry
1.03  Industry Organization. The road freight transport industry comprises: (a) about 115 transport
companies, which operate mainly in the very competitive segments of the transport market; (b) about
65 transport cooperatives operating on a national or regional scale, which can be either simple
associations of owner-drivers, or have all their capital, including vehicles and sometimes maintenance and
loading facilities, held in common between the cooperative members; and (c) individual owner-operators,
who generally are affiliated to a union or syndicate, which often controls the members negotiating power
with clients. The companies provide about 30%, the cooperatives 50%, and the independent operators
the remaining 20% of the supply of road transport.
1.04   Freight Transport Demand. The total output of the road transport industry is estimated at
between 30 and 40 billion ton-km per year. A very high proportion of this total output is in urban areas.
The interurban transport output is about 10 billion ton-km.
1.05   Market Shares. The market for final products, which represent about 30% of the total transport
demand, is roughly equally shared among the industry's main groups, i.e. the companies, the cooperatives



- 2 -
and the individual truck owner-operators. The market for semi-finished products (about 25% of total) is
shared mainly between the companies and the cooperatives, which operate the larger trucks on the longer
distances and achieve the highest load factors. Minerals and cement are transported mainly by
cooperatives, under long-term contracts which provide the shipper with the assurance of adequate
transport supply but at a generally high price. Individual owner-operators dominate the transport of
agricultural products, which is very fragmented and generally contracted on an individual truck load
basis.
1.06   Vehicle Fleet. There are about 228,000 trucks in Venezuela and about 19,000 buses (Table 1.1,
Annex 1). A small portion of the truck fleet, however, in used in inter-urban transport. The average age
of the vehicle fleet is very high, probably higher than 10 years, if one considers the small number of new
truck sales in recent years. A recent survey at toll stations showed that 57% of trucks were two-axle and
12% were three-axle rigid trucks, the rest of the surveyed vehicles (31 %) being semi-trailers and tractor
trailers with four to six axles.
1.07   Truck Load Regulation. Truck loads are regulated mainly through a maximum gross vehicle
weight of 48 tons, and a maximum single-axle load of 10 tons. Truck and trailer combinations are
permitted lower gross vehicle weights than semi-trailers with the same number of axles, and have a
maximum permitted gross weight of 41 tons on five or six axles. The maximum permitted length is 17
meters for semi-trailers and 21 meters for tractor and trailer combinations. Actual truck loads, however,
are substantially above the limits. A recent survey showed that about 25% of small and medium trucks
and about 40 % of large trucks (more than four-axles) were overloaded; about 27% of six-axle trucks were
more than 25% overloaded. Overloading is often achieved by making illegal alterations to the vehicle
dimensions, usually by extending the body length. More than 60% of the six-axle trucks surveyed were
of more than the legal maximum length; and more than half of the six-axle tractor trailer combinations
exceeded the maximum length by more than one meter. Taking into account the failure of previous
attempts to enforce axle-load regulations, MTC has revised its pavement dimensioning standards to take
overloading into account. MTC has also prepared a plan to discuss with the trucking industry groups
mutually-acceptable approaches to implementing axle-load and maximum vehicle weight and length
regulations. The project would assist MTC to implement such plan under the highway maintenance
planning and programming action program (para. 3.09).
C. Ports and Shipping
1.08   The National Port Institute (INP) of the Ministry Of Transport and Communications (MTC) was
responsible for the provision of labor, equipment and all services within its ports. These activities were
characterized by low productivity, low equipment availability and lack of suitable equipment for efficient
container handling. As a result of INP's inefficiency, shippers frequently hired private firms to handle
cargoes, while still paying INP tariffs and subject to the restrictive practices of INP's labor agreements.
Also, as a result of inefficiencies and problems in INP ports, the shipping conferences applied various
cargo surcharges for congestion and port cost differential. The cost of these charges to the nation has been
estimated at US$30-50 million annually. Moreover, INP has been a substantial burden on the
Government's budget, with transfers averaging US$25 million in 1988-1990.
1.09   As a condition of the Public Enterprise Reform Loan, the Govermnent in 1990 approved a far-
reaching reform program which involved: the dissolution of INP and the dismissal of all INP workers;
the establishment of new regional port authorities to oversee the individual ports, with the commensurate



- 3 -
transfer of responsibility for port administration to state governments; and the operation of all ports by
the private sector under concession agreements. A key objective was to promote competition both between
ports and within ports, by having a number of different private operators within each port. INP was
liquidated in 1991, and its 11,000 employees have been laid off with adequate compensation. Many of
the INP workers are now hired by private stevedoring firms on a contractual basis. Although a number
of technical aspects of the reform still need to be worked out or implemented, shippers now enter into
short-term contracts with the ports for terminal use and are free to hire private labor from a roster of
stevedoring firms.
1.10   As with ports, inefficient and restrictive practices in shipping were perceived by the private sector
as an important impediment to trade expansion and economic growth. Venezuela, like many other
countries, had restrictive shipping legislation designed to promote the national fleet, in particular the state-
owned shipping line, CAVN. Recently, however, the Government has implemented a number of measures
to liberalize shipping and to promote competition. Regional (Andean Pact) and bilateral agreements have
been signed with a number of countries to eliminate cargo reserve requirements, thereby allowing
shippers freedom of choice in selecting a carrier, and to liberalize shipping rates and route extensions.
Also, the Government has approved a broad restructuring program for CAVN to reduce costs and ensure
that it operates on a commercial basis.
D. Railways
1.11   The Government has been for some time considering an ambitious railway investment plan as a
means to achieve regional economic integration. The proposed construction of two new rail links is
currently being considered: (a) the Center-Occidental Line, which would consist of a Caracas-Cua section,
aiming to open new areas to urbanization, in the south of the metropolitan region, and of the Cua-Puerto
Cabello section, to link with the existing Occidental lines; and (b) the South-Oriental Line, which would
provide a direct rail link to a new deep-sea port at Guacarapo for the Guayana Regional Corporation
(CVG) iron ore exports, thus avoiding the present transhipment from the existing railway line at Puerto
Ordaz through the Orinoco river. The National Freight Transport Study, which is currently being carried
out under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan no. 3225-VE), and other related studies will provide
an adequate assessment of the technical and economic feasibility of these projects.
E. Sectoral Oreanization
1.12   The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) has overall responsibilityfor the transport
sector, with the exception of the existing railway lines which serve the mining industry, the most
important of which are operated by FERROMINERA, a branch of CVG. MTC is made up of six Sectoral
General Directorates (DGS), each headed by a Director-General (Chart 1, Annex 1):
(a)   the Roads Directorate (DGSVT) is responsible for the design, construction, and
maintenance of the nation's road network (paras. 2.15-2.16);
(b)   the Land Transport Directorate (DGSTI) is responsible for regulating and controlling
traffic, transit and land transportation;



(c)   the Water Transport Directorate (DGSTA) is responsible for shipping policy,
regulation, control of navigation, pilotage, and construction, operation and maintenance
of ports and navigation channels;
(d)   the Air Transport Directorate (DGSTA) is responsible for the air transport policy and
regulation, control of air navigation, and for construction, operation and maintenance of
airports and airstrips;
(e)   the Administration and Services Directorate (DGSAS) is responsible for personnel
management and finances; and
(f)   the Communications Directorate (DGSCO) is responsible for telecommunications, mail
and broadcast policies, regulation and supervision.
1.13   The Ministry has a State Directorate in each state, as well as a number of central support offices,
including for budgeting and planning, and for coordination with state governments. MTC has also a
number of decentralized agencies or state-owned enterprises under its jurisdiction, including FERROCAR,
which operates the railways, the Ports National Institute, the shipping line (CAVN), as well as the
Caracas Metro (Chart 1.1, Annex 1). The national airline (VIASA) and the national telephone company
(CANTV) have recently been privatized. The Government recently undertook to decentralize road
administration (paras. 2.06-2.09).
F. Bank Sector Exedrience and Strategy
1.14   Since this would be the first highway project in Venezuela, lessons have been drawn from similar
highway projects, which were recently completed in the region and elsewhere, and reviewed by OED
(Annual Review of Project Performance Results for 1990 and 1991). In summary, a good proportion of
the highway projects (78%) have been rated as satisfactory, but less (60%) have been rated as having
likely prospects of sustainability. The physical objectives of the projects have generally been attained. The
major problems have been with the institutional building components, which often fell short of their
objectives of establishing sustainable capabilities for the maintenance of the networks. Maintenance has
continued to suffer from lack of funds and inadequate cost-recovery, from poor organizational and staff
performance and insufficient accountability, and from unenthusiastic government support, especially
where it is carried out by force account. But progress has been made where maintenance has been
contracted out, such as in Brazil and Chile, and where adequate funding mechanisms, such as road funds,
have been established. Attention has been put into carefully incorporating this experience in the design
and preparation of the project.
1.15   The Bank's strategy in Venezuela is to support policies and investments that will encourage
economic growth and social development in a context of macro-economic stability. The primary emphasis
is on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate targeting
and delivery of support systems to the poor. In the transport sector, Bank strategy is evolving, based on
the results of ongoing studies. However, after supporting, through a PERL, the privatization of VIASA,
restructuring of the ports, and the liberalization of shipping, and, through a TAL, the strengthening of
sector policy formulation and planning within MTC, the main priorities are to assist the Govermnent to
establish appropriate regulatory, administrative and financing frameworks to effectively manage the
highway network and the urban transport systems, particularly ensuring their adequate operation and
maintenance, and the increased participation of the private sector in transport services and infrastructure.



II. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01   Venezuela has about 81,200 km   Box 1
of roads, of which about 31,200 km are
paved, 24,800 km are gravel, and 25,200                Venezuela' Road Network (km.)
km are earth roads. Venezuela's road
densities, in relation to surface area or   Road cater!oriE1    £iili ElIal 
population,  are  lower  than  Latin        arteria highways  10,400    250      g00   11,450
American averages (Table 1.2, Annex 1).     loca hiShways      7,500   1,250     300    9,050
There are about 10,400 km of arterial
highways, 7,500 km of local highways,       feeder roads       9,200   8,100    3,300   20,600
and 50,000 km of feeder and local access   local access roads  4,100  15,200   20,800   40,100
roads. Over 1,500 km of highways are        Total             31,200  24,800   25,200   81,200
dual-carriageway expressways.
2.02   Network Classification. Venezuela's roads are classified as follows: (a) arterial highways, which
provide connections between regions and with neighboring countries; (b) local highways, which link
population centers to arterial highways; (c) feeder roads; and (d) local access roads, which provide access
to rural areas. This classification, however, has lost much of its significance in recent years. New
expressways have transformed some formerly arterial highways into essentially local access roads; and
improved local highways have taken an inter-regional role. In order to enable an appropriate
redistribution of the administrative responsibilities for highways and roads, the functional classification
of the network needs to be updated. The project will provide for a revision of the network classification
(para. 3.07).
2.03   Traffic. Over 90% of the country's non-urban traffic  Box 2
(expressed in vehicle-km) is on the expressway and paved
highway networks. The average daily traffic (ADT) on the               Trafrc DeniLv
paved highway network is high (about 2,000 vehicles per day,
vpd), and about 12% of the paved network has an ADT above           ADT(vL...    i*
7,000 vpd. The distribution of the network by more detailed           < 1000    15,400    S0
traffic categories is shown in Annex 2, Table 2.1.                  1000-3000    8,000    25
2.04   Network Characteristics. Venezuela's road network           3000-7000     4,000     13
is relatively mature since more than 80%  of the paved                >7000     3,800     12
network is over 15 year old, and less than 7% is less than 6           Total    31,200    100
year old. Pavements are made of asphalt concrete; surface
treatments are not common, even on low-traffic roads.
2.05   Network Maintenance Condition. A survey of the maintenance condition of the paved network,
carried out in 1991 for the preparation of the project, has shown that: 26% of the network was classified
in good condition, and essentially required routine maintenance; 54% was classified in regular condition,
and essentially required or would soon require resurfacing; and 20% was classified in poor condition,
and required substantial rehabilitation or reconstruction works (Box 3 hereinafter). The distribution of
the paved network by class of traffic and road condition is shown in Annex 2, Table 2.1.



-6 -
Box 3
B. Road Administration. Decentralization. Concessions
Network Condition
2.06   Subsector Administration. The management of the         ..
road network has been highly centralized in DGSVT.
Highway construction and maintenance programs are generally  god           8,000      26
prepared centrally, and are funded (to the level of 90% of  repular       17,000      54
total expenditures) through annual budget allocations from the  poor       6,200      20
National Treasury. In some cases, the states allocate a small
portion of their situado to the financing of centrally-designed  Totl     31,200      100
and programmed highway investments. States' financial
contributions to feeder and local access roads are more
significant (about 30%), but until recently, feeder road programs were also decided centrally (Annex 3,
section B). This situation has resulted in less than efficient road programs, giving higher priority to new
highway, expressway or feeder roads construction programs at the expense of the maintenance of the
existing networks; in poorly designed rural roads programs with little consistency with the needs of the
local communities and with agricultural development objectives; and in largely unpredictable budget
allocations which have hampered the appropriate planning and programming of expenditures and the
effective management and maintenance of the networks.
2.07   Recently, however, there has been a greater awareness of these problems and of the need to
improve the maintenance and to decentralize the management of the road system. The Government, in
line with its broader decentralization objective, set-out by the Decentralization Act of 1989, is committed
to a reform of the highway administration. The Decentralization Act has established that: (a) states can
have exclusive competence for the maintenance and administration of the roads, bridges and expressways
in their territory; (b) states will progressively be given the responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of the local road networks; (c) the transfer of competence will take place through agreements
between the central and the state governments; and (d) states have to annually prepare a coordinated plan
for investments, which must consider the specific amounts that will come from the central and local
budgets (Annex 4, section B). Some state governments are now showing more interest in assuming
highway maintenance responsibilities, provided adequate funding is available, either through tolls or
through transfers from the National Treasury.
2.08   Decentralization. The Government has started to  implement some elements of the
Decentralization Act. The Autonomous Service for Agricultural Roads (SAVA) was created to receive
from DGSVT the responsibilities for "agricultural" feeder and local access roads. A national
(interministerial) as well as regional and local committees, with representatives from the state and local
governments, have been established to decentralize feeder and local road expenditure decisions. The
Government, however, still needs to clearly define: (a) a new classification of the country's road network,
including the networks, the management of which would be decentralized through SAVA, and the
(interstate) network of national interest for which the central government would retain at least some
management responsibilities, (b) a policy and a plan to decentralize responsibilities for the local and the
interstate highways, including the functions to be transferred and those to be retained at the central level;
(c) consistent road financing and funding policies and systems (section C hereinafter); (d) the mechanisms
to enforce (through regulation) or to encourage (for example through matching grants) appropriate
policies, technical norms and standards at the decentralized level, in the national interest; and (e) a plan
to assist the state governments in establishing appropriate technical and management capabilities to carry
out their responsibilities, and to transfer and/or reorganize the related technical services in MTC's state
directorates (Annex 4, section D). The above would be important elements for the formulation and



-7 -
negotiation of decentralization agreements with the state governments. The project would assist the central
government in defining such policies and plans (paras. 3.06-3.07).
2.09   Expressway Concessions. MTC is studying the feasibility of transferring responsibilities for the
construction and/or operation, maintenance and financing of expressways to the private sector. With the
Decentralization Act, however, the state governments, rather than MTC, have competence to establish
the concessions. MTC therefore needs to develop a model concession statute, including related regulatory,
evaluation and supervisory policies, mechanisms, criteria and methodologies, and to offer it to the states,
under the decentralization program, for inclusion in the respective state laws (Annex 4, section D). MTC
has established an expressway concession unit. The project would provide technical assistance to the unit
for that purpose (para. 3.07).
C. Financing and Cost-Recovery
2.10   Road Cost Recovery, Demand Management. Road user charges in Venezuela essentially
consist of a tax on petroleum products, tolls on some expressway sections and major bridges, and a
vehicle ownership tax, which is levied by municipalities. Tolls, which until recently were exclusively
collected by the central government, have not been updated since these roads were opened; toll revenues
therefore are insignificant. Similarly, vehicle ownership tax rates are outdated; the municipalities'
revenues from these taxes contribute only a portion of their expenditures on urban street networks.
Revenues from the tax on motor vehicle fuels have, on average over recent years, exceeded total central
government expenditures on roads. However prices of petroleum products are very low in Venezuela;
they average about one-half of international parity prices (Table 1.3, Annex 1). If one considers this
factor, there is no recovery of road costs and an implicit subsidy to road users.
2.11   Agreement was first reached with the Government under the Structural Adjustment Loan on a
plan to progressively raise the prices of petroleum products to international levels. This program of
phased price increases was to continue under the Public Enterprise Reform Project (Loan no. 3223-VE).
Progress was made under this plan until January 1992, when prices reached a level equivalent to about
50% of the international border prices. However, the adverse impact of the gasoline and diesel price
increases on the net disposable income of primarily the middle-class population and the strong public
reactions to these price increases have led the Government to postpone and slow down further price
adjustments (Table 1.3, Annex 1).
2.12   The allocative impact of petroleum subsidies is essentially related to the intensive use of fuel-
inefficient private cars to the detriment of public transport. The impact on the inter-modal allocation of
freight is insignificant since there are no viable alternatives to trucking in general. Increasing traffic
congestion and pollution are the main consequences of subsidized fuel prices, particularly in urban areas.
There are no significant implications for road maintenance except for inadequate cost recovery from road
users.
2.13   Within this context, the main elements of an adequate road cost recovery and demand
management policy would be to: (a) aim to at least recover the short term marginal cost of road use by
the different categories of vehicles, by maintaining appropriate road user charge levels through a
combination of taxes on petroleum products and on vehicle use and/or ownership; (b) charge appropriate
tolls on expressways, preferably through concessions to private operators, responsible for operation and
maintenance, capacity investments, and related financing; (c) use international market prices, in particular



- 8 -
for petroleum products, in evaluating and selecting the investments to be included in the annual highway
programs; and (d) formulate and implement adequate road policies and measures, including parking
restraint and traffic management, to improve the management of demand for road use in urban areas. The
project would help the Government to develop and implement elements (a) to (c) (para. 3.08). A proposed
Urban Transport project, which is currently under preparation, would help to implement element (d).
2.14   Highway Maintenance Funding. Largely insufficient resources have, in the past, been allocated
to road maintenance, which led to the deterioration of the network (Table 1.4, Annex 1). The 1992
budget, however, includes much increased allocations for road maintenance. In order to secure
appropriate, permanent funding for road maintenance, the Government has presented to Congress a
proposal to create a Road Fund, which would receive part of the proceeds of gasoline taxation and be
used partly for the maintenance of the primary road network. Congress, however, has not yet acted on
the proposal. If the proposal is not approved by Congress, alternative permanent funding mechanisms
would be studied under the project and established in accordance with an agreed timetable (para. 3.08).
In addition to taxes on petroleum products, the study would assess the feasibility of raising revenues from
alternative sources such as road tolls and vehicle use and/or ownership taxes, and of their redistribution
to the states in accordance with their expenditure responsibilities.
D Organization and Management
2.15   Subsector Organization. DGSVT is responsible for highway policy formulation, planning,
progranmming, and for the supervision and control of the highway construction and maintenance services
executed by contractors or by the state directorates. SAVA and its decentralized committees are
responsible for the same functions for agricultural and rural road systems, but since the technical services
have not yet been reorganized, DGSVT still provides many of these services. State Directorates are
responsible mainly for maintenance execution and for works supervision and control.
2.16   DGSVT is headed by a Director-General, who has direct support from: a Planning Office,
which, in coordination with MTC's Planning and Budget Office, prepares and monitors the execution of
annual programs and budgets; and from a Support Services Office, which in coordination with MTC's
Administration Office is responsible for personnel administration and financial management matters. With
the transfer of rural road responsibilities to the newly-created SAVA, DGSVT has now three departments:
(a) the Highway Maintenance Department (DCV), responsible for highway maintenance policy
formulation, planning, programming, and for the supervision and control of the highway maintenance
services executed by the state directorates; (b) the Construction Department, which is responsible for all
DGSVT's new construction works; and (c) the Studies and Projects Department, which is responsible for
studies, engineering design and laboratory services.
2.17   SAVA is still in the process of establishing its new organization. It is headed by a Director-
General, who oversees four departments: (a) Studies and Projects; (b) Execution; (c) Equipment; and
(d) Coordination. National policies and plans for agricultural roads are approved by an inter-ministerial
National Council for Agricultural Roads, which is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. Their
implementation is the responsibility of an Operational Council, which is chaired by the Director-General
of MTC, and which oversees SAVA's operations. The Director-General of SAVA is the Executive
Secretary of this Operational Council. Regional Committees, which are chaired by the State Governors,
are responsible for approving regional plans and programs in the respective states. The Directors of
MTC's State Directorates are the Executive Secretaries of the Regional Committees. Regional plans and



- 9 -
programs are prepared in consultation with Municipal and User Committees, and are submitted to the
Operational Committee after approval by the Regional Committees.
2.18   The State Directorates are headed by State Directors who report to MTC's Director-General.
In general, state directorates are organized into five divisions responsible for: (a) new construction;
(b) maintenance; (c) agricultural roads; (d) personnel; and (e) administration. The directorate's road
maintenance work force is organized into several residencies, each headed by an engineer, who reports
to the Chief of the Maintenance Division. The equipment is managed at the state directorate level, where
the workshops are located.
E. Highwav Planning and Programming
2.19   Sector Planning. MTC/DGSVT does not have the technical capabilities required for sector policy
formulation and planning. There are no well defined investment and maintenance strategies; nor economic
criteria, evaluation methodologies and procedures to select projects and to prepare and evaluate
investment and maintenance programs. As a result, road programs and budgets tend to be driven by the
availability of funds and by the priorities perceived at the decision-making level, without the benefit of
a thorough economic analysis. MTC/DGSVT need to strengthen their planning capabilities to prepare
annual and pluriannual road programs on the basis of appropriate technical and economic criteria, and
to seek appropriate funding commitments from the Government and other possible financiers. The project
would provide technical assistance and training to MTC/DGSVT staff to develop such planning capability
under the decentralization and the maintenance planning programs (paras. 3.07 and 3.09).
2.20   Maintenance Planning and Programming. With the deterioration of the network, the
development, implementation and monitoring of appropriate network maintenance strategies and
pluriannual and annual programs have become the most critical tasks faced by DGSVT. The maintenance
planning and programming process, however, in order to be effective, requires appropriate pavement and
bridge management systems (PMS and BMS), i.e. adequate information on the condition and usage of
the network, analytical tools to assess alternative maintenance strategies under budget constraints, and a
systematic approach to prepare, evaluate and monitor pavement and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance
programs. DGSVT needs to strengthen, complement and integrate its existing systems. In particular, its
road inventory, pavement and bridge condition data, and traffic information need to be updated more
systematically; computerized network and bridge data bases need to be developed and the data collection
systems strengthened. Appropriate procedures, criteria and methodologies need to be defined and
established to develop efficient network maintenance strategies and programs and to monitor their impact
on the condition of the network. At the engineering level, DGSVT needs to strengthen its capacity to
make sound diagnostics of the pavement and bridge conditions, and to update its standards and
methodologies for pavement and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance engineering. The project would
provide technical assistance to DGSVT to develop and establish appropriate management systems and to
prepare and implement adequate network maintenance strategies and programs (para. 3.09).
F. Highway Maintenance Management
2.21   Maintenance by Contract versus Force Account. Routine maintenance has generally been
carried out under force-account by the state directorate. However, ineffective management of equipment
and shortages of foreign exchange for spare parts have contributed to the rapid deterioration of the state



- 10-
directorates' machinery. Less than half of the fleet of about 1000 units is presently in operating
conditions. In addition, the staff of the maintenance districts have been reduced from about 15,000 in the
early 1970s to about 3,000, and a large proportion of the remaining staff is near retirement. Present
resources in staff and equipment combined would allow for the maintenance of less than half of the
networks. There is scope, therefore, in many of the state directorates, to contract out routine maintenance
without affecting the utilization of the districts' force account capacities. DGSVT has undertaken a pilot
project to assess the feasibility of such maintenance-by-contract program. The project would assist
DGSVT in developing, on the basis of the experience with this pilot project, and implementing a strategy
and a plan to contract out routine maintenance (para. 3.10).
2.22   Contract and Project Management Systems. MTC's state directorates and the states' public
works departments, which have mainly carried out maintenance works by force account, do not generally
have all the technical capabilities required to effectively procure and manage rehabilitation and
maintenance contracts, or to supervise and control engineering designs and civil works. DGSVT will
therefore have to: (a) clearly define the procedures, norms and methodologies to be followed by the MTC
state directorates and/or the states' public works departments for procurement, contract management,
engineering and works supervision, and project monitoring and reporting; (b) provide the technical
assistance and training programs necessary to strengthen the technical capabilities of MTC directorates
and/or state public works departments; and (c) strengthen its own administrative and technical systems,
which are necessary to control the procurement and management of contracts and the quality of the
works, and to supervise and monitor the execution of works. The project would provide assistance to
DGSVT to develop, disseminate and/or establish such procedures, norms and systems, and to prepare
and deliver the related training programs (paras. 3.10 & 3.12).
2.23   Personnel and Training. DGSVT and all the maintenance districts combined have a staff of
about 4,000, of which 7% have had university-level education. With the past restrictions imposed on the
recruitment and management of Government employees, including freezes on hiring, and the insufficient
attention given to staff development, DGSVT's present staff is not adequately prepared to carry out their
changing responsibilities effectively. In order to strengthen its planning and implementation capabilities,
MTC/DGSVT will need to make particular efforts in training its professional staff and management
personnel in the areas of: (a) network maintenance planning and pavement and bridge management
systems, including design, monitoring and evaluation of network maintenance strategies and programs
and use of the HDM3 model, and techniques of pavement diagnostic, design and rehabilitation;
(b) contract maintenance and maintenance administration systems, including procurement, management
and supervision of contracts, and monitoring of projects and programs; and (c) enviromnental
management, including environmental cost-effectiveness analyses and dissemination of environmental
guidelines for highways. An appropriate training program, consisting of a series of courses, seminars and
conferences covering the above areas has been prepared (Annex 4, Section E). The project would provide
assistance to DGSVT to develop and implement this program (para. 3.12).
G. Investment and Maintenance Expenditures
2.24   Historically, MTC's annual road expenditures have historically been quite variable, depending
on the availability of Treasury funds; but on average they decreased substantially during the 1980's. Total
road expenditures declined from over US$700 million in 1982 to about US$100 million in 1989 and
recovered to about US$400 million recently (Box 4 hereinafter, and Table 1.4, Annex 1). These
expenditures, however, do not account for road expenditures made by the states and municipalities, nor



for those made by CVG. The recent cuts in road
expenditure programs have not only affected new         S      AND MAINTENANCE
construction programs, but also the maintenance
programs. Maintenance expenditures, which were
kept at a level of US$60-80 million until 1986,  U-
were drastically cut back during 1988-1991. It is
only in 1992, that the maintenance budget has
been restored, to about US$80 million.
sos ~~~~~~~~~~..............
2.25   Since rural roads responsibilities have
been transferred from DGSVT to SAVA, DGSVT
is left with only two main expenditure programs:
the highway  rehabilitation and maintenance      4,0
program and the expressway completion program.
In the course of project preparation, DGSVT has
developed  a rehabilitation and  maintenance
strategy and pluriannual program for the paved  too
highway network, which was evaluated by the
appraisal mission and found adequate (paras. 3.13
to 3.23). The proposed expressway completion
program is shown in Table 1.5, Annex 1. A         t         W    ffs sW X    W 90 Vi 1
recent economic evaluation of the program shows
that some of the proposed expressway investments
seem to be economically justified while others Box 4
should be analyzed further and possibly revised or
postponed (Table 1.5, Annex 1). Since the Government has decided to seek the participation of the
private sector in the financing of this program, the project would help to establish an appropriate
regulatory framework for expressway concessions (para. 3.07). The Bank and DGSVT will review the
road expenditure programs annually over the implementation of the project (para. 3.09).
H. Environmental Manaeement
2.26   The Government has established that all major civil works project should be subject to an
appropriate environmental impact assessment to ensure that they have no unacceptable ill-effects on the
inhabitants or on the physical environment in the project's area of influence; and that for those projects
which are expected to have negative impacts, the project budgets should include funds to remedy such
adverse effects. Although DGSVT has, with consultant assistance, prepared environmental impact
assessments for some highway projects, neither MTC nor DGSVT have established an institutional
capacity to implement the above regulations. In the course of the preparation of the project, MTC has
prepared: (a) standards and guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact assessments for
transport projects in general and for highway projects in particular; and (b) a plan and a timetable to
assign the functions of disseminating and monitoring the implementation of the standards and guidelines
to its Planning Office, and to establish within DGSVT an environmental unit responsible for carrying out
the environmental assessments of DGSVT's road programs. The project would provide technical
assistance and training to MTC to help implement this plan (para. 3.11).



- 12 -
III. THE PROJC
A. Project Origin. Rationale and Objectives
3.01   Project origin. The project's concept originated from the conjunction of two major factors:
(a) a review of the 1990-93 public sector investment program carried out by the Bank in 1990
(Report No. 8588-VE), showed that insufficient resources were allocated to the maintenance of the road
networks; and (b) the 1989 Decentralization Act, which mandated the decentralization of the management
of the road system, and particularly the maintenance of the road networks. The preparation of the project
was initiated in early 1991.
3.02   Rationale for Bank Involveinent. Through this project, the Bank would help protect past
investments in highways by establishing sustainable institutional mechanisms to ensure the appropriate
maintenance of the network in the future. The emphasis would be on efficient resource allocation in the
sector, especially with regard to the balance between new construction and maintenance programs, and
on appropriate road cost recovery. The Bank would help improve the management of the road sector, and
in particular encourage accountability and better use of resources, by assisting the process of
decentralizing the maintenance of the road networks and strengthening the highway policy formulation,
planning and monitoring capabilities of the central government.
3.03. Project Objectives. The project's primary objectives are to:
(a) rehabilitate and maintain the national paved highway network, and
(b) establish sustainable institutional mechanisms to ensure effective road maintenance in the
future within a framework of a decentralized road administration.
Other related objectives are to:
(c) develop and implement policies and mechanisms for adequate funding of road maintenance
and efficient recovery of road costs;
(d) encourage private sector participation by contracting out routine maintenance activities and
transferring expressways to private concessionaires;
(e) strengthen the road maintenance capabilities of operational road administration units, and the
policy formulation, planning and monitoring systems of MTC's highway maintenance office
(DCV/DGSVT); and
(f) develop and improve compliance with environmental standards in the transport sector, and
particularly for highways.



- 13 -
B. Project Description
3.04   The project would consist of:
(a) a policy and institutional development program (about 2% of project cost), including
technical assistance and training of staff, to: (a) prepare and implement a program to
decentralize the maintenance of the road network and help transfer management of
expressways to private concessionaires; (b) design and establish appropriate road cost-
recovery and maintenance funding policies and mechanisms; (c) develop and establish a
highway management system to help DGSVT prepare and monitor efficient highway and
bridge rehabilitation and maintenance strategies, standards and programs; (d) formulate and
implement a plan to contract out maintenance; (e) strengthen the technical capacities of MTC
state directorates and state public works departments to manage and supervise maintenance
contracts; and (f) establish a capability in MTC to develop, implement and monitor
environmental standards and guidelines for roads;
(b) an investment program (72 % of project cost), consisting of the highest-priorityhighway and
bridge rehabilitation and resurfacing components of DGSVT's 1993-97 program, including
the rehabilitation of about 3,000 km and the resurfacing of about 4,800 km of highways; and
(c) a maintenance program (26% of project cost) consisting of the routine and other periodic
maintenance works, which would be fully funded with local resources.
(a) Policy and Institutional Development Program
3.05   The policy and institutional development program would consist of five action plans, to be carried
out by MTC/DGSVT to achieve the above-mentioned objectives, and a technical assistance and training
program to implement them effectively. These action plans and the related technical assistance and
training program were developed by MTC and DGSVT in the course of project preparation. Agreement
was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) the objectives of the action plans and technical assistance
and training program (paras. 3.06-3.12); (b) an Implementation Program detailing the action plans and
the related timetable (para 4.06); (c) the administrative procedures, technical and economic criteria and
methodologies included in an Operational Manual (OM); and (d) outline terms of reference (TOR) for
the technical assistance and training of staff.
3.06   Decentralization Plan. The objective of the decentralization action plan is to establish a phased
process to decentralize the maintenance of the road networks, in accordance with the 1989
Decentralization Act. The general policy is to gradually transfer expenditure responsibilities as well as
financing, personnel and equipment to the states, but resources will be transferred only when the states
demonstrate the capability to manage them efficiently. MTC's decentralization strategy therefore consists
in: (a) entering into cooperation agreements with the states, which would define the modus operandi
during the transition period, and the technical assistance and training program and related organizational
arrangements and counterpart staff needed to prepare the state administration to assume road maintenance
responsibilities; (b) providing technical assistance and training to the state administration to define its legal
responsibilities and establish the organization for road maintenance; (c) entering into decentralization
agreements, which would define in particular: the respective expenditure and financing responsibilities,
including performance targets; the eligibility criteria for federal funds, technical norms, standards and



- 14 -
procedures to be followed by the state for network maintenance and expressway concessions, and the
supervisory and monitoring arrangements; the organization of the state administration, including the
conditions and timetable for the transfer of personnel and assets; any further technical assistance and
training of personnel to be provided by MTC; and any other conditions to the transfer of road
maintenance responsibilities. The strategy would first be tested with three pilot states, with which
cooperation agreements have already been signed, and to which some initial assistance is already being
provided. The program would then be expanded to other states, taking into account the experience with
the pilot projects.
3.07   Under the decentralization plan, MTC/DGSVT would, with technical assistance: prepare a
reclassification of the road networks; specify DGSVT, SAVA and the states' future responsibilities in
managing the road networks; develop a plan and a timetable, including pilot projects in three states, to
gradually transfer expenditure and financing responsibilities, reassign personnel, reallocate facilities and
equipment; strengthen the states' technical capabilities in road maintenance planning and management;
and provide assistance to the states in establishing concessions for expressways. A state other than a pilot
state would become eligible to participate in the technical assistance and training program financed by
the Bank on the conditions that: (a) MTC and the Bank have agreed, taking into account the experience
with the pilot states, that the state participate, and that the state administration has satisfactory
organizational structure and counterpart staff to implement the technical assistance and training program;
and (b) the state has entered into a Cooperation Agreement with MTC. A state would become eligible
to participate in the investment program financed by the Bank on the additional conditions that: (c) MTC
and the Bank have mutually determined that the state administration has adequate capabilities and
resources to carry out the relevant project activities; and (d) the state has entered into satisfactory
Decentralization and State Project Agreements with MTC (para. 4.02). MTC has prepared an adequate
decentralization framework agreement and a timetable to formalize the agreements with the pilot states.
MTC selected the states of Carabobo, Guarico, and Monagas as pilot states, and has entered into
Cooperation Agreements with them. MTC has also defined the details of the technical assistance and
training program for the three states. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (i) the
timetable to develop and implement the detailed decentralization plan, as set forth in the Implementation
Program (para. 4.06); (ii) the above eligibility criteria for state participation; and (iii) the selected pilot
states.
3.08   Road Cost Recovery and Maintenance Funding. The objectives of this action plan are to:
(i) formulate a coherent road cost-recovery policy, develop and establish appropriate cost-recovery
mechanisms, determine and put into effect efficient user charge and toll structures, and gradually increase
cost-recovery levels from the various categories of road users to cover at least the costs of road
rehabilitation and maintenance; and (ii) design and establish appropriate funding mechanisms for road
maintenance, which would secure the necessary resources for the adequate maintenance of the road
networks. Such mechanisms would include an appropriate scheme to redistribute funds to the states in
accordance with their road operation and maintenance responsibilities. Prior to loan negotiations, MTC
prepared: (a) a statement of policy for road cost-recovery, (b) the final draft TORs for the study, and
(c) a timetable to develop, present to the Bank for comments, and thereafter implement an acceptable
action plan to establish appropriate cost-recovery and funding mechanisms, which could encompass, inter
alia, taxes on petroleum products, road tolls, and taxation of vehicle ownership and/or use, and be
consistent with the decentralization program, and to gradually adjust road user charges to at least recover
rehabilitation and maintenance costs, in accordance with cost-recovery targets to be set forth in the action
plan. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (d) a satisfactory cost-recovery policy
statement, aiming to recover at least the rehabilitation and maintenance costs; (e) the TORs for the study;



- 15 -
and (f) the timetable to develop, present and implement the action plan, as set forth in the Implementation
Program; and (g) a mid-term review of the project, to be carried out during the third quarter of 1995,
which could result in the suspension of disbursements or termination of the loan if the Government were
to default on the above commitments.
3.09   Highway Maintenance Planning and Programming. The objectives of this action plan are to:
(i) establish the necessary technical capabilities within MTC/DGSVT to prepare efficient national highway
and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance policies, strategies, and pluriannual and annual expenditure and
funding programs, monitor the maintenance condition of the highway network, and to implement axle-
load regulations; and (ii) ensure that adequate priority is given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing networks in DGSVT's annual and pluriannual programs. DGSVT has prepared satisfactory TORs
to develop and establish effective pavement management (PMS) and bridge management (BMS) systems
through: reorganizing and expanding an existing road data base; updating the methods and techniques in
use for pavement and bridge condition surveys and diagnostics, traffic analysis, pavement dimensioning
and bridge design, cost-benefit analyses; establishing procedures and analytical models to define and
assess network maintenance strategies and programs; and through strengthening the integration of the
various components of the systems. It was agreed during loan negotiations that MTC/DGSVT would:
(a) prepare a detailed plan, including the designs of a pavement management and a bridge management
systems, to prepare appropriate highway and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance strategies, monitor
the maintenance condition of the highway network, and to implement axle-load regulations; (b) update
its pluriannual and prepare its annual road expenditure and funding programs in accordance with policies
and economic criteria included in the OM; and (c) present these plans and programs to the Bank for
comments; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the Implementation Program
(para. 4.06).
3.10   Highway Maintenance Management. The objectives of this action plan are to: (i) increasingly
contract out highway maintenance operations to private contractors, rather than carrying them out by
force account; (ii) strengthen the technical capabilities of MTC/DGSVT state directorates and/or of the
state administrations' public works departments to manage their rehabilitation and maintenance contracts
and supervise the works; and (iii) strengthen the capabilities of MTC/DGSVT to supervise and monitor
the rehabilitation and maintenance programs, including through the formulation and dissemination of
appropriate norms and standards. MTC has developed a strategy and prepared satisfactory TORs to carry
out these tasks with appropriate technical assistance. It was agreed during loan negotiations that
MTC/DGSVT would: (a) develop and implement a plan to contract out maintenance operations; (b)
strengthen the technical capabilities of its state directorates and/or of the state public works departments
to manage contracts and supervise works; and (c) strengthen DGSVT/DCV's own program monitoring
systems; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the Implementation Program
(para. 4.06).
3.11   Environmental Management. The objective of this action plan is to assist MTC in developing
institutional capabilities to carry out appropriate environmental impact analyses for all of their transport
programs and projects, and to adopt and enforce appropriate environmental guidelines for highways and
for transport in general. MTC has prepared a satisfactory proposal, including the organizational design
and initial work program for the proposed environmental unit, as well as draft environmental guidelines
for the transport sector. It was agreed during loan negotiations that the Borrower would: (a) adopt
appropriate environmental guidelines for highways and for the transport sector; (b) assign MTC's
Planning Office with the functions of disseminating and monitoring the implementation of the guidelines;
and (c) establish an adequately staffed environmental unit within DGSVT to carry out the environmental



- 16 -
assessments of the roads programs; all in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the
Implementation Program (para. 4.06) and with MTC's environmental management plan dated May 1992.
3.12   Technical Assistance and Training Program. MTC/DGSVT has prepared a technical assistance
and training plan for DGSVT head office and state directorate personnel, as well as for the highway
personnel of the state administrations' public works departments (Annex 4, section E). MTC/DGSVT will
contract technical assistance and organize and carry out training courses and seminars in the following
areas: (a) network maintenance planning and monitoring, including pavement and bridge condition
surveys, pavement and bridge management systems, techniques of pavement diagnostic, design and
rehabilitation (including technical norms and standards), formulation and evaluation of network
maintenance strategies and programs (including through the HDM3 model), and evaluation of individual
investments; (b) contract maintenance and maintenance administration systems, including procurement,
management and supervision of contracts, and monitoring of projects and programs; and
(c) environmental management, including environmental cost-benefit analyses and dissemination of the
environmental guidelines for highways. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) outline
terms of reference for the technical assistance and training program; and (b) the preparation and review
of annual training programs in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth in the Implementation
Program (para 4.06).
(b) Investment Program                                           4
3.13   The investment program would consist of highway Tehabilitation and resurfacing programs,
including capacity increases, based on an appropriate network maintenance strategy developed by
DGSVT, bridge and tunnel rehabilitation and repair, and highway signalling programs, and the related
engineering and works supervision programs for 1993-97. The project incorporates DGSVT's entire
1993-97 rehabilitation and maintenance program, with the exception of the rehabilitation component of
an ongoing IDB-financed project.
3.14   The network maintenance strategy and the pluriannual highway rehabilitation and maintenance
program were developed on the basis of methodologies which follow the HDM III evaluation
methodology and are consistent with their present technological and institutional capabilities and with the
available network information. In general, the selected maintenance strategy consists of carrying out:
(a) resurfacing works on sections which otherwise would soon reach a level of deterioration requiring
extensive rehabilitation, through appropriate surface treatment, or asphalt concrete overlay techniques,
depending upon traffic levels; (b) pavement rehabilitation works on sections which have already reached
or exceeded their functional life, through appropriate techniques ranging from asphalt concrete overlays
to complete reconstruction of pavement; and (c) routine maintenance works as needed, including through
patching and maintenance of drainage systems, shoulders and signalling, on the entire paved networks.
3.15   The pluriannual investment program  would consist of the following components:
(a) rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of highways, including widening of about 100 km; (b) resurfacing
of about 4,800 km of highways; (c) rehabilitation or repair of bridges totaling about 500,000 m2 of deck
area, and of tunnels totaling about 8,000 m in length; (d) signalling, including pavement marking and
vertical signalization, on about 4,000 km of highways; and (e) related engineering and works supervision.
The detailed scope of these programs is presented in Annex 5, and is summarized in Table 3.1 hereafter.



- 17 -
3.16   The first-year investment program, i.e. the works which would be initiated in 1993, would
consist of the following: (a) rehabilitation of about 400 km of highways; (b) resurfacing of about 250 km
of highways; (c) rehabilitation and repair of bridges totaling about 60,000 m2 of deck area, and
(d) pavement markings on about 870 km of highways. The program is described in Annex 6. The related
final engineering designs have been reviewed and found satisfactory.
Table 3.1: Investment Program Summary (Kilometers)
Program Components              1993    1994   1995   1996   1997       Total
Highway Rehabilitation           413    751    609    700    580    3,053
Highway Resurfacing              249   1,350   1,145   1,096    947    4,787
Capacity Increases                                37     38      38       113
Bridge Rehabilitation and Repair  7.5    8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7         42
Tunnel Rehabilitation and Repair  5.5    4.5    2.6    1.2    1.2          15
Signalling                       870    870    870    870    870        4350
(c) Routine Maintenance Program
3.17   The routine maintenance component would consist of the normal, routine maintenance operations
on the entire highway network: (a) patching of potholes (about 200,000 m3 of materials over the five-year
program; (b) cleaning of drainage systems and control of vegetation (on the entire network);
(c) maintenance of bridges (about 450,000 m2 annually); and (d) maintenance of horizontal and vertical
signalization, and emergency and other miscellaneous activities. The detailed scope of these programs is
shown in Annex 5, Section C, and is summarized in Annex 1, Table 1.6.
3.18  It is expected, however, that due to the current lack of adequate information on the condition of
the networks and to the insufficient analytical capabilities of DGSVT, the periodic maintenance programs
will not be fully adequate until the pavement and bridge management systems included in the policy and
institutional development program are in operation; and consequently additional sections will further
deteriorate to the point where they will need rehabilitation. The maintenance strategies and programs will
therefore be reviewed and updated annually, on the basis of the gradually improved information and
analytical tools of the pavement and bridge management systems, implementation progress and updated
funding expectations, and reviewed by the Bank in accordance with the actions and timetable set forth
in the Implementation Program (para 4.06).
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.19   Project Cost. The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$840.0 million equivalent,
including US$332.2 million for rehabilitation and resurfacing, US$17.0 million for capacity increases,
US$ 102.4 for bridge and tunnel rehabilitation, US$18.7 for pavement marking and signalling, US$27.6
million for engineering and work supervision, US$218.3 million for routine maintenance and US$13.7
million equivalent for technical assistance and training (of which about US$300,000 is for policy support,
US$4.5 million is for project preparation and implementation support, and US$8.9 million is for



- 18 -
institutional development and capacity building). The foreign exchange cost component is estimated at
about US$294.0 million, or 35%, and the tax component at about US$168.0 million, or 20%. Total
project cost includes physical contingencies for US$49.8 million or about 10% of investment base cost,
and price contingencies for US$60.4 million (or about 11% of base cost plus physical contingencies)
estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule and of the following forecast of price escalation for
both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in 1993-94 and 3.8%
thereafter. Cost estimates for civil works are based upon average per-kilometer costs supported by
engineering estimates and recent contract prices. Cost estimates for consultant services are based upon
prevailing local and foreign man-month rates. The estimated costs of the individual project components
are detailed in Annex 5, aggregated in Annex 1, Table 1.6, and summarized in the following table.
Table 3.2: Estimated Project Costs and Finaneing
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Components                Local    Foreign       Total        %
Highway Rehabilitation              121.4       65.4      186.8       22
Highway Resurfacing                  94.5       50.9      145.4       17
Capacity Increase                    11.0        6.0       17.0        2
Bridge & Tunnel Rehab.               66.6       35.8      102.4       12
Marking & Signalling                 12.1        6.6       18.7        2
Routine & Emergency Maintenance     141.9       76.4      218.3       26
Engineering and Supervision          17.9        9.7       27.6        3
Technical Assist. & Training          8.9        4.8       13.7        2
Total Base Cost                     474.3      255.5      729.8       87
Physical Contingencies               32.4       17.4       49.8        6
Price Contingencies                  39.3       21.1       60.4        7
Total Project Cost                  546.0      294.0      840.0      100
Government                          490.0        -        490.0       58
Inter-American Development Bank      56.0      144.0      200.0       24
World Bank                            -        150.0      150.0       18
Total Financing                     546.0      294.0      840.0      100
3.20  Project Financing. The project would be financed from: (a) the proposed Bank loan of US$150.0
million (or 18% of the project cost); (b) a proposed new loan from the Inter-American Development
Bank, of US$200.0 million (or 24% of the project cost); and (c) Government resources for about US$490
million (or 58% of the project cost). A (small) portion of Government resources may be provided from
state budgets, in those states which may meet at a future time the eligibility criteria for participating under



- 19 -
the investment program. The financing plan of the project is detailed in Annex 1, Table 1.6, and
summarized in the Table 3.2 above. Agreement was reached during the negotiations on: (a) the
Borrower's guarantee regarding all the necessary project counterpart funds; and, in order to permit the
timely implementation of urgent subprojects, (b) retroactive financing in an amount of not more than 10%
of the loan amount for civil works, goods, consultant and training expenditures incurred after May 8,
1992 and not earlier than twelve months before the date of the loan agreement. A condition for loan
effectiveness would be that the Borrower has provided for adequate budgetary allocations for the 1993
rehabilitation and maintenance programs of DCV.
D. Project Environmental Impact and Economic Evaluation
3.21   Environmental Impact. The project, which consists of the maintenance or rehabilitation of
existing roads, will not have a significant impact on the environment. Possible adverse effects could,
nevertheless, result from quarrying, borrow pits or the disposal of used pavement materials. In order to
reduce or mitigate such effects, MTC/DGSVT has completed appropriate environmental assessments for
the first-year program of works, and will, as part of the above-mentioned environmental action plan,
introduce appropriate norms and specifications in the contracts for engineering and civil works, and carry
out adequate supervision and control.
3.22   Project Benefits. The project, by helping to retard the deterioration of the existing highway
network through improved maintenance would: (a) avoid further losses of valuable capital invested in
public roads; and (b) contribute to growth in agriculture, industry and exports by substantially reducing
the cost of road transport. It would also contribute to: (c) enhanced accountability and more efficient use
of public resources in the highway subsector; and (d) mitigation of adverse environmental impacts of
highway construction and maintenance.
3.23   Economic Evaluation. The economic analysis of the identified rehabilitation and resurfacing
works included in the first-year program has shown that the proposed works would have estimated
economic internal rates of return (ERR) ranging from 34% to 74%, with an average rate of 53%. The
net present value of the benefits of these investments, discounted at a 12% rate, would exceed a total of
US$150.0 million (Annex 7). The sensitivity analyses have shown that the investment costs would have
to be increased by about 300% to reduce the ERR to 12%; and that a 20% increase of the investment
costs together with a 20% reduction of vehicle operating cost savings (VOCS) would reduce the ERR of
the first-year program to about 30%, which is still acceptable. The economic rates of return for the
remaining investments are expected to range from above 12% to about 100%, with most of them
exceeding 30%.
E. Project Risks
3.24   Project risks include: ineffective management of project by MTC/DGSVT; inadequate
supervision of works and contracts by the decentralized units; and insufficient allocation of resources by
the Government. In order to minimize these risks, the project includes: (a) a well-defined project
implementation program and necessary organizational arrangements; (b) strengthening of DGSVT's key
planning and control responsibilities as well as implementation capabilities of the decentralized units; and
(c) a supervision and monitoring plan with annual reviews of DGSVT's expenditure and funding
programs, and a mid-term detailed review of project implementation.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.01   The Federal Government, through MTC/DGSVT, would be responsible for implementing the
project, in accordance with: (a) organizational arrangements (section B); (b) an implementation program
(section C); (c) procurement arrangements (section D); (d) disbursement, account and audit arrangements
(section E); and (e) monitoring and reporting arrangements (section F), which have all been confirmed
during negotiations, and for which detailed guidelines would be provided in an Operational Manual (OM),
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would monitor and supervise the implementation of the project in
accordance with a monitoring and supervision plan (section F and Annex 8).
4.02 The Federal Government would implement most of the subprojects directly through
MTC/DGSVT. Some subprojects, however, could be implemented by state administrations, upon the
assumption by the state of the road maintenance responsibilities. A state administration could implement
a subproject on the conditions that: (a) the Federal Government and the Bank have mutually determined
that the State has adequate capabilities and resources to carry out the relevant project activities, and (b)
the Federation and the State have entered into satisfactory Decentralization and State Project Agreements.
The Decentralization Agreement would in particular define: (i) the respective responsibilities of the State
and the Federation regarding the operation and maintenance of the highway network in the State; (ii) the
respective responsibilities for financing these operations; (iii) the organization of the state's technical
services which would be responsible for the works, and the timetable for the transfer of personnel and/or
physical assets from MTC state directorate; and (iv) the technical assistance and training programs
required to provide the state with adequate technical capabilities to carry out its new responsibilities. The
State Project Agreement would in particular provide for: (v) State guarantee for counterpart funds and
appropriate mechanisms to transfer federal funds, including loan proceeds, for subprojects to be financed
out of the loan; (vi) State commitment to carry out the relevant project activities, including routine
maintenance, and to comply with the administrative procedures and the economic/technical criteria,
norms, standards and methodologies to be followed for the selection, engineering and execution of
subprojects, including procurement, disbursements, accounting, auditing, monitoring and reporting, as
defined in the OM; and (vii) State commitment to ensure the implementation of the policy and
institutional development program in the state. The Federal Government will ensure that the routine
maintenance program is carried out in any state which, having assumed responsibility for routine
maintenance, has not entered into a satisfactory State Project Agreement with the Federation. It was
agreed during loan negotiations that MTC would not transfer the execution of subprojects to state
administrations unless: (a) MTC and the Bank have mutually determined that the State has adequate
capabilities and resources; and (b) MTC and the State have entered into Decentralization and State Project
Agreements satisfactory to the Bank. A condition for loan effectiveness would be that MTC has formally
approved the Operational Manual.
B. Orgnizational Arangemnents
4.03   MTC would make appropriate organizational arrangements to carry out the project efficiently.
The Maintenance Directorate (DCV) of DGSVT would be responsible for the implementation of the
investment and maintenance programs, as well as for the development and implementation of the highway



-21 -
maintenance planning, programming and management systems, and the related technical assistance and
training programs, including those for the state administrations. MTC's Budget and Planning Office
would be responsible for: (a) coordinating the decentralization program; and (b) developing the cost-
recovery and maintenance funding policies and mechanisms. The existing task force for expressway
concessions, which reports directly to the Minister, would assist the Budget and Planning Office in
advising state governments on expressway concessions. DGSVT would be responsible for general
coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the project, and for reporting to the Bank.
4.04  It was agreed during loan negotiations that MTC would establish and maintain organizational
arrangements for the efficient execution, coordination and monitoring of the project, all with staffing,
responsibilities and/or functions satisfactory to the Bank. In this respect, Mit would: (a) establish two
task forces under the supervision of the Chief of the Ministry's Planning Office to: (i) prepare and
implement the plan to decentralize highway management, including the formulation and negotiation of
agreements with the states and the development and supervision of the technical assistance and training
programs; and (ii) develop the cost-recovery and maintenance funding policies and mechanisms; and
(b) assign a competent Project Coordinator in DGSVT for general project coordination, monitoring and
reporting.
4.05   DGSVT would establish and maintain a Project Management Unit headed by a Project Manager,
who would report directly to DCV's Director. DGSVT would also establish two task forces, with
representatives from the various organizational units involved, to coordinate the development and
implementation of: (a) the Pavement Management System; and (b) the Bridge Management System. It
was agreed during loan negotiations that DGSVT would: (a) establish and maintain a Project Management
Unit, with staffing, responsibilities and functions, and a Project Manager with qualifications and
experience, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) establish two task forces within DCV, with staffing,
responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank, to develop and implement the Pavement
Management and the Bridge Management Systems. The establishment of the Project Management Unit
and of the MTC and the DCV task forces and the employment of the Project Coordinator would be
conditions of loan effectiveness.
C. Im[lementation Program
4.06   The Federal Government would be committed to carry out, through MTC/DGSVT, the project
in accordance with the following Implementation Program (1P), which was confirmed during negotiations:
(A) Policy and Institutional Development Program
1. Development and Implementation of Plan to Decentralize Highway Management:
(a) MTC/DGSVT will prepare a detailed plan, including a timetable, to gradually decentralize the
management of the road networks; reclassify the road networks; redefine DGSVT, SAVA and
state administrative and financing responsibilities; reassign personnel; reallocate assets; develop
appropriate road maintenance capabilities at the decentralized levels; and assist the states in
establishing concessions for expressways, in accordance with TORs satisfactory to the Bank.
MTC/DGSVT will present the plan to the Bank for comments by March 31, 1993;



- 22 -
(b) MTC/DGSVT will thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the timetable, taking into
account the Bank's comments.
2. Design and Implementation of Road Cost Recovery and Maintenance Funding Mechanisns:
(a) MTC/DGSVT will prepare a detailed plan, including a timetable, to establish appropriate cost-
recovery and funding mechanisms and to gradually adjust road user charges, in line with targets
to be set forth in the plan, to at least recover road rehabilitation and maintenance costs, in
accordance with TORs satisfactory to the Bank; and will present it to the Bank for comments by
June 30, 1993;
(b) MTC/DGSVT will thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the timetable, taking into
account the Bank's comments.
3. Design and Implementation of Highway Maintenance Planning and Programming Systems:
(a) MTC/DGSVT will prepare a detailed plan, including an implementation timetable, to establish
pavement and bridge management systems, prepare appropriate network maintenance strategies
and programs, monitor the highway network maintenance condition, and implement axle-load
regulations, in accordance with TORs satisfactory to the Bank; and will present it to the Bank for
comments by September 30, 1993;
(b) MTC/DGSVT will thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the timetable, taking into
account the Bank's comments.
(c) MTC/DGSVT will update its pluriannual and prepare its annual road expenditure and funding
programs in accordance with policies and economic criteria set forth in the OM, and, by October
31, each year, present these programs to the Bank for comments.
4. Development and Implementation of a Plan for Highway Maintenance by Contract:
(a) MTC/DGSVT will prepare a detailed plan, including a timetable, to: (i) contract out maintenance
operations; (ii) strengthen the technical capabilities of MTC/DGSVT state directorates and/or of
state public works departments to manage contracts and supervise works; and (iii) strengthen
MTC/DGSVT's own program monitoring systems, in accordance with TORs satisfactory to the
Bank; and will present it to the Bank for comments by June 30, 1993;
(b) MTC/DGSVT will thereafter implement the plan in accordance with the timetable, taking into
account the Bank's comments.
5. Implementation of Environmental Management Plan:
(a) MTC/DGSVT will, by June 30, 1993, have: (i) adopted appropriate environmental guidelines for
highways and for the transport sector; (ii) assigned MTC Planning Office with the functions of
disseminating and monitoring the implementation of the guidelines; and (iii) established an
adequately staffed environmental unit in DGSVT to carry out the environmental assessments of
the roads programs; all in accordance with the functions and responsibilities specified in MTC's
environmental management plan dated May 1992.



- 23 -
6. Technical Assistance and Training of Staff:
(a) MTC/DGSVT, in order to carry out the above action programs with efficiency, will, by
March 31, 1992, have contracted one or several consulting firms in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981) and on the basis of terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) MTC/DGSVT will, by October 31 each year, present to the Bank for comments a training
progran for the following year.
(B) Investment Program
7. Selection, Preparation and Economic Evaluation of Subprojects:
(a) DGSVT will select the road segments to be included in its annual rehabilitation and resurfacing
programs on the basis of: (i) the agreed network maintenance strategy and pluriannual program,
as periodically updated and refined consistently with the development of the pavement and bridge
management systems; (ii) funding expectations for the given year; and (iii) appropriate technical
and economic criteria and methodologies set forth in the OM.
(b) Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs, DGSVT will prepare for each subproject a draft
financing application providing information, in form and detail satisfactory to the Bank, on:
(a) the analysis carried out and the rationale for selection of the road segment; (b) the road
condition and traffic data; (c) the diagnostic of the problems and the recommended engineering
solutions; (d) the estimated cost of works; (e) the result of a preliminary economic evaluation;
and (f) the proposed implementation schedule, all in accordance with the OM; and present it to
the Bank. The Bank will approve the financing of the engineering under the loan on the basis of
a review of the draft financing applications.
(c) After completing the detailed engineering and prior to contracting the works, DGSVT shall
update and finalize the financing applications as required to reflect the more accurate traffic
projections, the selected engineering solutions, and the final cost estimates, and present the final
applications to the Bank. The Bank will approve the implementation and financing of the
respective rehabilitation and/or resurfacing investments under the loan on the basis of a review
of the final applications.
(d) All the investments included in the annual rehabilitation and resurfacing programs would have
estimated economic internal rates of return exceeding 12%.
8. Preparation and Monitoring of Procurement and Execution Schedules:
(a) DGSVT will prepare annual procurement and execution schedules for the project investments,
consistent with its annual and pluriannual expenditure and funding programs; and by October 31
each year present them to the Bank for comments.
(b) DGSVT will monitor the implementation of the annual procurement and execution schedules, and
inform the Bank, through quarterly progress reports, of the achievements relative to the following
procurement and execution targets (in kilometers):



- 24 -
Table 4.1: Project Procurement and Execution Targets
Program Item           Activity    Unit    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Highway Rehabilitation   Contracted   Km     788    379    656    640    290
Executed    Km        413    751    609    700    580
Highway Resurfacing    Contracted   Km       924   1247   1121   1021    474
Executed    Km        249   1350   1145   1096    947
Bridge Rehabilitation  Contracted   000 m2    95     70     70      70      35
Executed    000 m2     60     70     70      70      70
Pavement Marking      Executed    Km         870    870    870    870    870
Routine Maintenance    Patching    000 m3     50     50     40      30      30
Drainage    00OKm      30     30     30      30      30
Bridges     000 m2    450    450    450    450    450
(c)  DGSVT will prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1994, a set of
indicators and yearly targets for measuring the maintenance condition of the network.
D. Procurement
4.07   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.2 on the next page.
4.08   All civil works contracts to be financed by the Bank and expected to be valued at more than
US$3.0 million would be procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures
in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992). Civil works contracts below US$3.0
million, up to an aggregate amount of US$160.0 million, would be procured under LCB procedures,
which would be based on standard bidding documents to be approved by the Bank. The value of
individual civil works contracts is expected to vary between US$1.0 and US$10.0 million for
rehabilitation and between US$0.5 and US$3.0 million for resurfacing and other works (total cost about
US$273.2 million). Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract and not exceeding an
aggregated amount of US$ 1.0 million may be procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Goods not exceeding US$50,000 per contract and US$500,000 in aggegrate may be purchased through
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants for detailed engineering, construction
supervision, technical assistance and training programs would be selected and engaged following the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
4.09   MTC/DGSVT would be the principal implementing agency, responsible for carrying out the
project, including all procurement, except for subprojects which would be delegated or transferred to state
administrations which have met the corresponding criteria under the decentralization program.
MTC/DGSVT organization for and experience with procurement have been reviewed during appraisal
and found satisfactory. The Bank would review the organization and procurement and implementation
capabilities of the state administrations prior to approving state-managed subprojects. The Borrower's



- 25 -
procurement regulations and procedures have recently been reviewed and found acceptable for all methods
of procurement proposed under the project. During project supervision, all ICB contracts, the first two
and all other LCB contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more,
and the first two LCB contracts for goods would be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding
documents and bid evaluation reports. The review process would cover about 70% of the total value of
the Bank-financed works, goods and services. The balance of contracts would be subject to random
ex-post review by the Bank after contract awards. The above procurement arrangements were confirmed
during loan negotiations.
Table 4.2: Procurement Method
(USS million)
------Procurement Method       -
Project Element              ICB        LCB        Other    n.b.f. 1/        Total
Civil Works                  112.0      160.0      -           520.6       792.6
(56.0)     (80.0)                            (136.0)
Equipment                      -           -      0.5 2/         0.5          1.0
(0.5)                      (0.5)
Engineering/Supervision                           17.0 3/       16.7        33.7
(8.5)                      (8.5)
Technical Assist./Training                        9.0 3/         3.7         12.7
(5.0)                      (5.0)
Total                        112.0      160.0    26.5          541.5        840.0
(Bank financed)              (56.0)     (80.0)  (14.0)                     (150.0)
i/ not Bank-financed, rehabilitation and maintenance works, goods and services
2/ shopping
3/ consulting services
E. Disbursements. Accounts and Auditing
4.10 The Bank would disburse for: (a) civil works, at the rate of 50% of expenditures; (b) equipment,
at the rates of 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost, excluding
taxes); (c) consultants' services at the rates of 50% of local expenditures for consultants residing in
Venezuela and 100% of foreign expenditures for other consultants; and (d) staff training at the rates of
50% of local expenditures for training in Venezuela, and 100% of foreign expenditures for training
abroad. The allocations of the proceeds of the loan are shown in the Table 4.3 hereinafter. Based upon
experience with similar projects considered in the relevant standard profile for highway projects, the
implementation period for the project is estimated at six years (Table 1.7, Annex 1). The Loan closing
date would be December 31, 1998.
4.11   In order to reduce the interval during which MTC/DGSVT would finance the Bank's share of
project costs with their own resources, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars would be established in the
Central Bank to cover both local and foreign currency expenditures. The Bank would deposit up to
US$10.0 million into this account, and would replenish it for the amount of withdrawals on account of
eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower. MTC/DGSVT have adequate accounting controls
0



- 26 -
to enable disbursements to be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Therefore, disbursements
for expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$2.0 million for civil works and US$100,000
equivalent for goods would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Documentation for these
expenditures will not be sent to the Bank but will be retained by MTC/DGSVT and be made available
for inspection during project supervision missions, and be subject to auditing by external auditors.
Expenditures for contracts above these limits would be documented. Agreement was reached during loan
negotiations on: (a) the above disbursement arrangements; and (b) MTC/DGSVT to retain independent
auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit the project accounts, including the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures, and to furnish to the Bank the auditors' reports not later than six months after
the end of the fiscal year.
Table 4.3: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan category                        Amount (US$)      Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works                        122,000,000       50% of expenditures
2. Equipment                              500,000       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local exp. (ex-factory cost)
3. Consultants and Training             12,500,000      100% of foreign expenditures
50% of local expenditures
4. Unallocated                          15,000,000
Total                                150,000,000
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan
4.12 DGSVT would, as part of the action program to strengthen contract management and program
monitoring, establish an appropriate system to monitor the implementation of the project, including the
preparation of adequate information to report to MTC/DGSVT management and to the Bank. It was
agreed during negotiations that DGSVT would prepare and forward to the Bank quarterly progress reports
satisfactory to the Bank, not later than one month after the end of each quarter.
4.13 The Bank will have full responsibility for approving all the above documents and related actions
by MTC/DGSVT. The project monitoring and supervision plan is presented in Annex 8, together with
estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities. The plan is based on an appropriate coordination
of Bank and IDB project monitoring and supervision activities.
4.14  The implementation of the project will be monitored against the set of actions and timetable
relative to agreed procurement and execution targets, which are recorded in the Implementation Program.
A mid-term, detailed review of the implementation of the project will be carried out during the third
quarter of 1995. The review will cover all the agreed actions, targets dates, and procurement and
execution targets included in the Implementation Program, and the status of compliance with all covenants
of the Loan Agreement. Particular importance will be given to the Borrower's commitments to:
(a) provide adequate funds for maintenance, including counterpart funds for the project; (b) establish road
cost-recovery and maintenance funding mechanisms; and (c) undertake the highway decentralization
program. The Bank will have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of
disbursements and termination of the loan, if the Borrower has defaulted under the above conditions.



- 27 -
V. QR          TSMEN  AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01   Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on the following:
(a) development and implementation of the decentralization plan, the eligibility criteria for state
participation in project, and the pilot states (para. 3.07);
(b) cost-recovery policy statement, and TORs and timetable to design and implement an action
plan to establish cost-recovery and maintenance funding mechanisms and to adjust road user
charges (para.3.08);
(c) design and implementation of maintenance planning and programming systems, including
pavement and bridge management systems (para. 3.09);
(d) preparation and annual review of DGSVT's pluriannual and annual road expenditure and
funding programs, and related policies and criteria (para. 3.09);
(e) development and implementation of a plan to contract out maintenance, and to strengthen
technical capabilities of decentralized units and DGSVT's monitoring system (para. 3.10);
(f)  adoption of environmental guidelines and establishment of an environmental unit
(para. 3.11);
(g) annual review of training programs (para. 3.12);
(h) Borrower guarantee for counterpart funds, and retroactive financing arrangements
(para. 3.20);
(i)  conditions to transfer execution of subprojects to state administrations (para. 4.02);
(j) organizational arrangements for project execution (paras.4.03-4.05);
(k) implementation program, including procurement and execution targets (para. 4.06);
O)  procurement arrangements (paras. 4.07-4.09);
(m) disbursement, accounting and auditing arrangements (paras. 4.10-4.11);
(n) monitoring and reporting arrangements (paras. 4.12); and
(o) Bank supervision and mid-term review of project implementation (para. 4.13-4.14).
5.02   The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a) the Borrower has provided for adequate budgetary allocations for DCV's 1993 rehabilitation
and maintenance programs (para. 3.20);



- 28 -
(b) MTC has formally approved the Operational Manual (para. 4.02); and
(c) the Project Management Unit and the MTC and DCV tasks forces have been established,
and the Project Coordinator has been appointed (paras. 4.03-4.05).
5.03   Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$150.0 million
to the Republic of Venezuela. The terms would be 15 years, including five years of grace.
December 1, 1992



-29 -                                                       Annx
Table  I
Venez      'dalds ejpe   (199vM
Rmagliftft                         PiVa          Publis      buaa      TnKac      Tadi.        an1i-        TOWs
C   . Tm"                                                 TIM
vodll/
VUN4ZUULA                             1,483           98         19      22             43         173         2,045
CArnTAL  haWMr                          622           31          a        48            9          36           76
DO4WFo edwal                            382           27          7        26            4          19           468
MIMS"a                                  240           11          1       22             4          16           295
CVUfMuL RIOaM                           244            9          2       35             6          27           325
Arm-a                                   102            3          1        14            2          10           134
Carabobo                                133            5          1        19            3          14           177
Cojedas                                              153          -        2             -           1            13
LO$IAANOB R3CGON                         24           67        370         3            1           6            43
Guwino                                   1i            1          -         6            1           5            33
Ap-w                                      5            1                   2             -           I            10
Cwnuo OCc)CNRAL REGIoN                  146           10          2       34             6          26           227
Fakon                                    34            3                   7             1           5            52
LAn                                      75            4          1        16            3          12           111
Poagua                                   22            1          -        7             1           5            38
Yanacuy                                  14            1          -        4             1           3           24
ZAIMNA RBGIoN                           146           14          1       29             5          22           219
Zulu                                    146           14          1       29             5          22           219
Los APa RGtGON                          135            9          2       30             5          22           205
atsin                                    14            1          -        4             1           3           24
Maida                                    35            2          1         7            1           6            54
Tachia                                   64            3          1        11            2           3            91
TrujUo                                   21            2          -         S            1.          4            35
NoR OmUNTrAL RtCION                      87            8          1        24            4          18           143
Anuostodai                               52            4          1        15            2          11            86
Manage.                                  16            1          -         4            1           3            27
lain.                                    1i            1          -         4            1           3            29
IPULtAE RUION                            17            2          1         2            -           1            24
Numva lpazt                              17            2          1         2                        1            24
GUAYANA RGOK                             55            3          1        14            2          10            90
Balvar                                   56            3          1        13            2          10            86
F. AianzcTerbioq                          1            1          -         -            1           -             1
F.D. AmnsuroTan   y                       1                  -         -                 1                         2
lqm"t 1992



- 30 -                                                  Annex 1
Table 1.2
Venezuela
lflbM21 Manaeement Project
Road Densities in Latin America & Caribbean Countries
Total Roed Network (Knm)                    Main Highway Network
Density Per
Million       ToWe          Paved      Perct.
Contay             LeWth         100         1,000        USS         Length        Length      Paved
_in thousnd)    km       Inhabilants   (i PNB)    (u thousand)  (i thousand)   (%)
VEEUEJLA                      51.2        S.4          4.0         0.9          20.5           17.7       37
Argeiina                    212.3        7.7         7.1          3.2          36.5          27.0        74
Baeibdo.                      1.6      3S8.4          6.4         1.5           1.3           1.3       100
Belice                        2.0        8.7         12.5        10.9           1.8            .4        24
Bolivia                      39.8        3.6         6.4         11.9           9.3           1.3        14
razil                     1,316.3       15.5          9.9         5.8          64.6          45.2        70
hile                         79.0       10.4          6.7         3.9          22.3           8.9        39
Colombia                     77.2        6.3          2.7         2.0          24.3           9.6        40
Comb Rca                     28.5       55.9         11.4         9.6           4.7           3.0        63
DominicanRep.                17.2      35.1          2.8          2.9           3.4           2.4        71
Ecuador                      37.9       13.3         4.2          3.6           3.4           3.3        40
kunatemaa                    13.4       16.9          2.4         2.1          10.6           3.0        28
Haiti                         4.0       14.3         0.7          2.3           2.4            .6        24
Honduras                     12.0       10.3         2.9          4.1           6.0           1.6        27
Juamica                      17.7      160.9          3.0         7.0           4.7           4.3        91
Mexico                      212.6       10.S          2.3         1.4          43.5          40.5        93
Panama                         .6       11.3         4.1          2.1           3.4           3.0        37
Pauguay                      24.3        6.0         7.4          5.9          11.2           1.6        15
Peru                         53.5        4.6         3.2          3.2          27.3           7.1        26
Umguay                       49.8      28.3          16.6         8.4           9.8           6.4        65
TotalLatin Americeand       2,213.3      11.3          6.3         3.3         511.6         251.6        49
The Caribbn
Sowu: Venezueia: MTC, 19SS Data
Other Couitrie: IBRD: Road Deterioration in Developing Countries (1933)
S           1992



-31 -                                           Annex I
Table 1.3
Venezuela
Mgbway Mansgement Proiect
Petroleum Products: Price Structure and Adiustment
a. Price Stuture ss of Julv 10. 192
Premium Gaoline   Regular Gaholin       Diesel Oil
| Bo       %        Bs        %       Bs%
Ex-Refinery Price               2.84       49     2.24       43    2.15         48
Consumer Tax                    2.10       36     2.10       40    1.39         31
Land Transport & Distribution   0.31        5     0.31        6    0.31          7
Price to Retailer               5.2S       90     4.65       89    3.85         86
Retailer's Margin               0.60       10     0.60       11    0.65         14
Retail Price (Bs)               5.85      100     5.25      100    4.50        100
Retail Price (USC)              9.0               8.1               7.0
International Price (USC)      17.0               16.4             14.6
Retail as a percentage of                  53                49                 48
International Price
b. Price AdMustment. June 1991- July 1992
Premium Gasoline    Regular Gasoline       Diesel Oil
| Bs       %   |     Bs         %    |Bs          %
June 1991            3.65    100          3.45    100       2.S0     100
August 1991          3.90    107          3.70    107       2.75     110
October 1991         4.40    121          4.20    122       3.25     130
December 1991        4.90    134          4.70    136       3.75     1S0
Februay 1992         5.40    148          5.20    151       4.25     170
April 1992           5.75    158          5.20    151       4.40     176
June 1992            S.8S    160          S.25    152       4.S0     180
Source: Petroleum de Venoeua S.A.
September 1992



- 32 -                                       Annex 1
Table 1.4
Venezuela
Highway Manag=mnt ProJect
Evolution of Road Expenditures, 198219IM
a. (mUlion Bs.)
Year        Highways    Urban Roads    Rural Roads    Mainteanoce      Total       Exchange
Rat
1982         1,679.9          635.8         443.7          262.9       3,022.3         4.3
1983           673.5          339.7         196.3          358.0       1,567.5         4.3
1984           232.8          160.3           7.1          462.1        862.3         7.5
198S           504.9           91.5         125.2          540.7       1,262.3        7.5
1986         2,024.6          401.4         698.3          874.5       4,003.2        14.5
1987         3,075.5          605.5         567.9          622.0       4,870.9        14.5
1988         5,655.6        1,003.3         599.6          294.9       7,549.0        1S.8
!989         2,226.6          465.9          45.2          188.3       2,926.0        29.2
1990         5,684.9          908.1         376.7        1,047.8       8,017.5        41.1
1991        14,432.5        2,361.1        3,067.9       2,076.8      21,938.3        SS.2
1992 I/     18,0S8.S        2,187.2            -         5,488.0      25,733.7        65.0
b. (US$ million)
Year            Highways      Urban Roads    Rural Roads       Maintenance             Total
1982             390.6             147.8            103.8             61.1           702.8
1983              156.6             79.0             45.6             83.2           364.5
1984              31.0              21.3             94               61.6            114.9
1985              67.3              12.2             16.6             72.0            168.3
1986              139.4             27.6             48.1             60.3           276.0
1987              212.1             41.7             39.2             42.9           335.8
1988              357.9             63.5             37.8              18.6          477.8
1989              76.2              15.9              1.S              6.4            100.0
1990              138.2             22.1              9.2             2S.5           19S.0
1"1               261.5             42.8             55.6             37.6           397.5
192 I/            277.9             33.6              -               84.4           395.9
Source: MTC/DGSVT
I/ revised budget data
Septernber IM2



-33 -                                         Annex I
Table 1.S
Venezuela
Highway ManagMem,nt Project
Summary Results of Economic Evaluation of ExDresswav Projects
Expressway Name                     Results of Economic Evaluation       Sensitivity Analysis
Section                  Invest   Length  NPVj/   B/C        ERR      Cost      ERR
Cost I/   (kn)             (12%)    (%)      (%)        (%)
ROMULO BETANCOURT
Guaras-Guatire                            2,056   13.0       730    1.34    15.6      + 20        13.3
Guaire-Caucagua                           7,099   28.0     1,070    1.13    13.5      - 20        16.6
San Juan-Unare                              486   19.0    1,867    3.98   41.8        + 20        36.4
JOSE ANTONIO PAEZ
Barina-Ospino                             6,560  119.5      1,238    1.17    13.8      - 20       16.7
SAN CIsUoTOAL-LA F1UA
San Cristobal-La Fria                     7,103   64.0      1,179    1.15    13.6      - 20       17.2
CENTRO OCCIDENTAL
Marin-El Chino-Moron                      2,171   54.3    2,589    1.97   21.9        + 10        20.6
MUEDA-PANAMERCANA
Estanquez-ElVigia                         3,302   20.5     8,438    3.12    31.4
CORO-CHURUGUARA
San Pablo-Churuguara                        828   64.0     1,162    2.15   24.5       + 20        20.9
CIUDAD LOSADA-KEMFS
Ciudad Losada-Ke-npis                     4,860   32.5     4,339    1.78    19.5      + 20        16.9
CUMANA-PTO. LA CRUZ
Cumana-PTO. La Cruz                      11,616   65.0         -    -        -           -
VILLA DE CURA-SAN JUAN-DOS CA&sos
Villa Dc Cur&-San Juan-Dos Caminos        2,210   55.0      1,411    1.52    17.6     + 10         16.6
S. FUNANDO-PTO PAE
San FmUando-PrO Pam                       1,839  214.8      1,666    1.74    19.8     + 10        18.6
S-oure: Consultant Report, based on information provided by MTC
I/ Net Present Value in miMlions of Bolivares
September 1992



-84-                                                           ANNEXI
Table 1.6
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cont and Financing Table
-------- Quantities --                    -------- eas    Cost --------    - iancing%-
ProjectComponent   Uni  Prfie  Total   1603  164  1666  1ow   1007    1WS  1904  10   1m    1607 Totai                 Bank    IDS
Rehaimlon
dt.1:12.Sem        Km    02.0   283            140   143                     0.0  12.0  13.2   0.0   0.0   20.0
.st.2:10.0em        Km    60.0   326    86   140   100                        OA   11.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   26.0
.d.3: 7.5em         Km    61.0   707   247   140   120   100   100           16.1   8A    7.3   6.1   0.1   43.1
.d.4: 5.0em         Km    60.0   400            100   100   100   100         0.0    60    5.0   1.0   6.0   20.
.s1S: wftr.         Km     26.0  1060           100   100   ON    300         0.0   2.5   2.   125    6.5   27.0
.st.10: 15.0cm      Km    231.0    S3   14    40                              3.2  11.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   14.6
.t.12: 10.0cm      Km    100.0   1SS    07    45    40                      10.7   7.2   7.4   0.0   0.0   25.2
.st.13:7.S cm       Km    130.0    37            37                           0.0    4J    0.0   0.0   0.0      48
wubta                      61.2  3063   413   751    We   700    6O          38.8   3.4   4.3   2 3    20A   186        24%        32%
Resurking
1.6d: 7.5 cm       Km    33.0  1024  11   260   20    200   103             6.0   8.    6A    6.6   0.4   33.
.1.7: 5.0c m       Km     27.0  2416    24   6o0   eo0   600         6       0.0  102   18.2  16.2  10.1    65.3
.st.:  r.fr.        Km     18.0   86            360   200   200   106         0.0   6.3   3.6   3.    1.0   15.4
.st.14:7.S am       Km    70.0   251    4S    06    SO    31                  3.2   0.7   5.6   2.2   0.0   17.6
. d.15: 5.0 am      Km    56.0   239             Of    05    65    64         0.0   3.1   3.6   3.6   3.0   13.4
subtotal                   30.4  4787   240  1360  1148  106   047            0.7  40.5  38.0  32.2  27.3  148.4    24%            32%
Ca#ayyin_creas      Km      150   113                   37    38    s8        0.0   0.0   5.    5.7   5.7   17.0    24%            32%
Rehabltabon of Orkdgg  an Tunnel
. bdidgerehab.     0Om2   315   160    60    40    40    40    40             9.5  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.J    604
. bndge rpak      OOOrnm2   206   150    30    30    30    30    30           6.2   6.2   6.2   0.2   6.2   30.8
. tunne rehab.     00Om    77.7   152      5     4      26    13    13        4.3   3J    2.0   1.0   1.0   11.
subtot                                                                       10.0  22.2  20.   10.   16.8  102.4    24%            32%
maeodng & Signg
. logwys            Km      7.4  1000   200   200   200   200   200           1.8   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5    7.4
.2-k1               Km      3.4  S      670   670   070   670   670          2.3    23    2.3   2.3   2.3   11.3
sAbtoal                     4.3  4350   *70   870   870   870   870           3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   18.7         24%       32%
eng. ering         Km    3.0%                                                2.1   3.    33.   2.    2.3   14.1        24%        32%
upevsion           %      3.0%                                               2.0   3.8   3.2   2.4   2.2   13.         24%       32%
TotalR  R&Sbaoast                7840   *62  2101  1754  176   1527          73.2  137A  115.5  60.0    1.7  407.
physicl aoting.          10.0%                                               7.3  13.8  11A    6.0   8.2   40J.
price eoning.                          3.0%   3D%   3.8%  3J%   3J%          3.0  11.2  14.2  14.0  17.1    00.4
Totl ki. contingen1 s                                                        83.5  162.  141.2  113.6  100.8    6.1      24%       32%
Rorne and Emergency Mairennc
patehing         OOm    860   200    SO    SO    40    30    30              4.3   4.3   3.4   2.6  2I    170
dralnsgeAveg     000'm  450.0   1S0    30    30    30    30    SO          13.5  13.S  13.5  13.5  13.8   67
bride            000'2   65.0  2250   480   460   480   480   480            6.8   6.8   6.    6.    6.6   33.8
emegency & ow       ls   1000.  1000   200   200   200   200   200          200   200   200   20.0  20.0  100.0
Subot                                                                        44    44.8   4.7  42.   42.6  218.3         0%        0%
Technica Aseaslance & Tralning
.DCV syams         HNM    14.0   120    50    40    20    10                 0.7  O    0.3   0.1   0.0    1.7    40%
su.ves              Is   100.0    38    10    10        1     5      6       1.0   1.0   0.8  O   O          3.5     24%
*quipt aelt        Is   100.0    10       4      4      2                    0.4   0.4   0.2   0.0   0.0    1.0    60%
.decenbk TA         HM9   10.0   240    60    60    SO    40    30           0J    0.8   O8    0.4   0.3    2.4    40%
.wfronm.nt         KM     10.0   60o    s       30                           0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   O          40%
.tanng            tweek    0.5  9000  1000  2600  200  2000  1000             0.    1.3   1.3   1.0    0.5    48        40%
subtoal                                                                       3.    4.1    L7   L2    1.1   13.7                   40%
Total Pi@e    Coot                                                          1318  211.2  107.J  158.7  151.0  840.0    18%         24%
PiNANCING PLAN
- Govenmmnt                                                                  82.4  117.3  106.8   N6 O   0.3  400.0
.wert budge                                                                44.6  44A   43.7  42L   42J   218.3
kweti budget                                                                 7.0  728   LO   U0.7  47A   271 .
- IDliean                                                                    26.1   83.8  40.   37.2  34.7   2000                  24%
- WooM Sank ban
cte_gy 1 (Cimk4                                                             1J8.  3J8   32.0  2NA   24.2  137.         10%
categry 2 (goods. eqsipmt and a*Ie)                                          0.2   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.0   O           0%
egory 3 (ccornoWa and bahi                                                   2.1   J.4   LO    2.2   1.7   12.2         1%
toWta                                                                       21.1  40.1  34U   28.0  20.0  150.0    18%
Source: DCIDGT and mion edme
Septembw 1602



- 35 -
Annex 1
Table 1.7
VENEZUELA
IGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROlE
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly
Bank Fiscal Year                 Disbursement               Cumulative Disbursement
End of Quarter                   (USS million)              (USS million) % of Total
FY 1993
September 30, 1992
December 31, 1992
March 31, 1993                       15.01"                    15.0           10
June 30, 1993                         5.0                      20.0           13
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                    5.0                      25.0           17
December 31, 1993                     5.0                      30.0           20
March 31, 1994                        5.0                      35.0           23
June 30, 1994                         5.0                      40.0           27
FY 1995
September 30, 1994                    6.0                      46.0           31
December 31, 1994                     7.0                      53.0           35
March 31, 1995                        8.0                      61.0           41
June 30, 1995                         9.0                      70.0           47
FY 1996
September 30, 1995                   10.0                      80.0           53
December 31, 1995                    10.0                      90.0           60
March 31, 1996                       10.0                     100.0           67
June 30, 1996                        10.0                      110.0          73
FY 1997
September 30, 1996                    8.0                      118.0          79
December 31, 1996                     8.0                     126.0           84
March 31, 1997                        8.0                     134.0           89
June 30, 1997                         6.0                     140.0           93
FY 1998
September 30, 1997                    5.0                     145.0           97
December 31, 1997                     5.0                      147.0          98
March 31, 1998                        4.0                     149.0           99
June 30, 1998                         4.0                      150.0         100
1/ including US$10.0 million deposit into Special Account.
December 1992



NINMSTRY 07 TRANSPORT AND CCOWNICATIONS ORG1XZATION
....:2   ..S'    .\.; ..:S' ..CeSR;+sS:S       -
NI S T E
DIRECT.. ..G.NERA.
MINISTERIAL OFFICES
||Budget & ||Inspection               Inter - Govt       Information &
| Legal |  | Procurement |  | Planning |  | & Controller           Coordination       Public Relations       Personnel
GENERAL SECTORAL DIRECTORATES
[  Land      Roads        Uater              Administration           Air          CoInications
| Transport ||        || Transport |          |& Services            Transport
STATE
DIRECTORATES
NTC
AUTONOMOUS ENTERPRISES
Ferrocars      Carca        Pipeline       Ports           A4 |AIQUETIA                  I A                         | VIASA  Posts  Telecommunication
( Railways )      Metro       National      NationaL       Shipping     InternationaL                 Airline                        Co.
Institute     Institute         Co           Airport



- 37 -
Annex 2
Page I of 3
VENEZUELA
IGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJEI
Assessment of Network Condition
1.   In 1991, the whole of the road network was visually assessed by DCSVT according to the method
oudined in the guideline 'Evaluacion y calificacion de la red vial".
A.   Road Condition Rating
2.   Based on the road condition surveys, using sampling techniques (i.e., test sections) and pavement
condition index evaluation method (PCI), the network was classified into 3 broad categories of road
conditions, namely:
Total Condition Index (TC)         Rating
(as calculated from the method)
0-250                      Poor
250-300                     Fair
300-500                    Good
3.   The indices are weighted figures obtained from taking into account and quantifying a set of 5
parameters, distinguishing between:
(a)  Pavement parameters which include:
*    pavement surface condition
*    drainage features
*    right of way, and
(b)  Signs and markings parameters which include:
*    vertical signs
*    horizontal markings



- 38 -
Annex 2
Paee 2 of 3
B.   TraMc Categories
4.   Traffic volumes on the networks have been grouped into the following 5 and 6 categories according
to whether the roads are 2 lane highways or 2 x 2 lane expressways:
Two-Lane Highways   2 x 2 Lane Expressways
Average Daily Traffic
< 700                < 5,000
701 - 1,000          5,001 - 10,000
1,001 - 3,000        10,000 - 15,000
3,001 - 5,000        15,001 - 20,000
5,001 - 7,000           > 20,000
> 7,000
5.   As maintenance actions are predominantly governed by heavy traffic characteristics, the above
categories will need to be adjusted with due consideration according to appropriate volumes of
commercial vehicles.
C.   Road Condition Matrix
6.   The combination of road condition ratings and traffic densities led to the following matrix which
has been used for the definition of the maintenance and rehabilitation needs or strategies (see Annex 4).
As can be seen from the matrix presented in Table 2-1 hereafter, and expressing the total length of the
network in terms of equivalent two-lane highways, the proportions of good, fair and bad pavements on
Venezuela's paved network are, at present, as follows:
good condition        26.1%
fair condition        54.3%
bad condition         19.6%



- 39 -
Annex 2
Table 2.1: Road Condition Matrix
TRffic Volunm                           Road Condition Rating
Good               Fair                 Poor                 Toal
km                km E                 ki         s         km          s
2 Ln Z     w
< 700                       2,456   8.2         7,140   24.0        2,840     9.5       12,334      41.9
701 - 1,000                   775   2.6         1,609    5.4          659     2.2        3,043      10.2
1,000-3,000                 2,101   7.1         4,456    15.0        1,402    4.7        7,950      26.7
3,000-5,000                   S0   2.7         1,133    3.8          625     2.1        2,569       5.6
5,001-7,000                   563   1.9           773    2.6          112     0.4        1,459       4.9
> 7,000                       877   3.0          1,44    3.8          283     1.0        2,304       7.7
Total                        7,585  25.6       16,250   S4.6         5,924    19.9      29,769     100
2x2 La   Expnuuway
< 5,000                        83   5.4          130    8.4            37     2.4         250       16.2
5,001-10,000                  151   9.8           338   21.3           45     2.9          535      34.5
10,001-15,000                  32   2.1           95    6.1            46     3.0          173      11.1
15,001-20,000                  65   4.4           S8    5.7            U4     5.4          240      15.S
> 20,000                      165  10.7          127     3.1           S0     3.2         352       22.7
Total                         500  32.3           713     5.1         262    16.9        1,5S0     100
Total Equivalet
Two-Law Highways             8,585  26.1       17,336   54.3         6,449    19.6      32,869     100
Source: DCSVTIDCV
September 1992



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page I of 3
VENEZUELA
HIGHVAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Network Maintenance and Rehabilitation Strategies
1.   The road condition matrix shown in Annex 2 has been used as a basis for the definition of the
maintenance and rehabilitation strategies to be retained for the program.
2.   The strategies have been designed either to keep sound and good condition pavements in a
sustainably high level of service by removing all eventual surface defects or to extend the useful lives of
the pavements presently in fair or poor condition by providing additional strength, either through:
*    resurfacing, using thin overlays, or
*    rehabilitation, using thick asphaltic concrete overlays
3.   Basically, three main options have been retained depending upon the road condition evaluation:
(a)   Pavement in good condition will only be subjected to normal routine or recurrent
maintenance including eventual patching, drainage correction and signs or marking
improvements. Typical pothole patching figures for recurrent maintenance have been set
from 3% to 5% on areas covered by the pavements and from 1.5% to 2.5% on shoulders
areas. Unit prices range from US$14,000 to US$20,000 per km.
(b)  Pavement in fair condition and with traffic volumes upwards of 700 vehicle/day, would call
for resurfacing, in addition to normal routine maintenance activities. Resurfacing generally
include light overlays consisting of either double surface dressing or asphaltic concrete
carpets in thickness ranging from 5 to 7cm on pavement areas and from 3 to 4.4cm on
shoulders area. In all cases, it was assumed that only a proportion of the total pavement
and/or shoulders areas, typically between 20% and 60%, would require resurfacing.
Resurfacing unit costs range between US$15,000 to US$33,000 per km for 2 lane highways
and from US$57,000 to US$69,000 US$/km for 2x2 lane expressways.
(c)   Pavement in bad or poor condition would require rehabilitation in addition to normal
routine maintenance works. Except for very low traffic volumes, below 700 vpd - where
a double surface treatment would be satisfactory - rehabilitation works will consist of
relatively thick overlay in asphaltic concrete ranging in thickness from 5 to 15cm on
pavement area and from 3 to 12cm on shoulders areas. Unlike resurfacing works which
only involve part of the total pavement area, rehabilitation overlays will cover the full
extension of the road pavement. Unit costs for rehabilitation works range from US$25,000
to US$92,000 and from US$129,000 to US$230,000 for 2-lane and 2x2-lane expressway,
respectively.
4.   While the recurrent maintenance works will bring no significant improvement to the pavement
structural capacity, the resurfacing and rehabilitation options are designed to provide extra strength to the
pavement structure, increasing the structural number by an amount ranging from 0.8 to 2.4.



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
5.   For simplicity purposes, the resurfacing and rehabilitation alternatives have been identified by
numbers ranging from 1 to 8 in the case of 2-lane highways, and from 10 to 15 in the case of 2x2 lane
expressways.
6.   The technical contents and respective costs of these alternatives are given in table 3.2.
7.   The above unit cost can be generally broken down into:
16 to 31% for drainage, signs, and markings, and
68 to 84% for works on pavements.
8.   The following table summarizes and reflects the interactions between traffic levels, road conditions
and the maintenance interventions needed to reduce the total cost of transport.
Table 3.1: Rehabilitaton and Maintenance Options
Road Condition              Good                  Fair          Poor
Traffic        Routine Maintenance (rm)    Resurfacing   Rehabilitation
2 lane              < 700               rm                      rm               st. 5
701 - 1,000             rm                       st.8            st. 4
1,001-3,000              rm                      st. 7           st. 3
3,001 - 5,000             rm                       st.7            st. 2
5,001 - 7,000             rm                       st.6            st. 2
> 7,000               rm                      st. 6           st. 1
2x2 lane          < 5,000               rm                      st. 15          st. 13
5,001 - 10,000             rm                      st. 15          st. 12
10,001 - 15,000             rm                      st. 14          st. 12
15,001 - 20,000             rm                      st. 14          st. 11
> 20,000               rm                     st. 14          St. 10



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Table 312: Resurfadng and Rehabilitation Standards
N2    Laffie           Descrivifon of Works 1                             Unt Coat/kIn
Resurfring                        (vpd)                                                              (USS x 1,000)
2-Lan Highways             8      700 - 1,000      + double surface dressing over 20% of paved am.           is
7      1,000 - 5,000    + double surface dressing over 20% of paved ae            27
+ Scm AC over 40% of paved area
+ 3cm AC over 40% of shoulder area
6      > 5,000         + double surface dressing over 20% of paved area           33
+ 7.5cm AC over 40% of paved area
+ 3cm AC over 40% of shoulder area
2x2-Lane
15     < 10,000        + double surface dressing over 20% of paved area           56
+ Scm AC over 40% of paved area
+ 3cm AC over 40% of shoulder aea
14     > 10,000        + double surface dressing over 20% of paved area           70
+ 7.5cm AC over 40% of paved area
+ 3em AC over 40% of shoulder area
Rehabilitntb
2-Lane                   5       < 700           + double surface dressing over 100% of paved area          25
4      700 - 1,000      + 5cm AC over 100% of paved area                          50
+ 3cm AC over 100% of shoulder aea
3      1,000 - 3,000    + 7.5cm AC over 100% of paved area                        61
+ 3cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
2      3,000 - 7,000    + 10cm AC over 100% of paved area                         so
+ 7cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
1      > 7,000         + 12.5cm AC over 100% of paved area                        92
+ 10.5 AC over 100% of shoulder area
2x2-Lane
13     < 5,000         + 7.5cm AC over 100% of paved area                        130
+ 3cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
12    5,000 - 15,000   + 12.5cm AC over 100% of paved area                       160
+ 8.5cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
11     15,000 - 20,000  + 12.5cm AC over 100% of paved area                      195
+ 8.5cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
10     > 20,000        + 15cm AC over 100% of paved area                         231
+ 12cm AC over 100% of shoulder area
Source: DCSVTIDCV and mission ostimates
I All standards also include patching of pothole, cleaning/rehabilitation of drainage systems, and pavement markings and
signalization.
August 1992



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page I of 8
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECI
Decentralization and Strengthening of Highway Management
A. Introduction
1.    Before the Decentralization Act of 1989, the management of the highway system was the
responsibility of the central government, under the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC).
Most expenditures on roads were made by the central government, with the exception of the urban roads,
which were responsibility of municipal governments. The small investments made by the state
governments were generally made in coordination with and co-financed by MTC, or, for a small part of
feeder roads investments, by the Ministry of Agriculture & Livestock (MAG).
2.    The Decentralization Act assigned most highway maintenance or investment responsibilities to
state governments, either in exclusivity or in shared responsibility with the center. With a few exceptions
where the state has taken over the operation and maintenance of toll facilities, very little progress has yet
been made in implementing the Decentralization Act. It is an important objective of this project to assist
the Government in developing and in starting up an appropriate program for the decentralization and
strengthening of highway management.
B. Prsent Distribution of Exnnditure and Flnancdng Resnonsibfleies
3.    The distribution of road expenditures between local
and central government varies across states. Since there are no  -. -y l  -
consolidated  data on  central and  state governments'
expenditures by state, an analysis was carried out by a Bank
sector mission on the basis of data available at project level   i  : 
for four states: Carabobo, Falcdn, Yaracuy and Zulia CTable  |i
1). In Zulia, the state government financed more than half of  Nl
the investment in roads (54%), while in Yaracuy the state
government spent only 22%. State expenditures on urban
roads represent almost half of total expenditures in roads and      -  ,
about 80% of the state budget devoted to roads, despite the
fact that urban roads are the responsibility of municipalities.
Highways, freeways and bridges are almost entirely financed by the central government budget. Rural
roads rank second in state budget expenditures on roads, with 13% of total, but they are still mostly
financed by MTC (40%).



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
Table 4.1 - 1991 Road Expenditures In Carabobo, Falc6n, Yaracuy and Zulia
(Bs.m)
States                       State Budget   State Budget
Road type       MTC          (coordinated)   (not coord.)    Total    Situado
Carabobo        2515                   0            683        3,198     6,806
Falcdn           824                 216              0        1,040     3,957
Yaracuy          994                 241              0        1,235     2,919
Zulia           1095                   0            429        1,524     9,941
Urban Roads      648                 311            924        1,883
Highways         750                   0             55          805
Freeways        2459                   0              0        2,459
Rural Roads     1291                 110             97        1,498
Bridges          123                  1 1             0          134
Other             23                  25              0           48
Investment      4,920                312            851        6,082
Maintenance      509                 144            262          915
Total           5,429                457           1,112       6,997
Source: Miuion estimate from local and central governments budgets
Note: espenditures were dassified according to project description, which may not correspond to MTC classification.
4.    Central government financing is more intense in states with smaller than average per-capita
income. If one uses car ownership as a proxy of state per-capita income, one finds that the largest MTC
involvement (in per capita terms) is found in the poorest states (Table 2). On the other hand, state
financing of road expenditure is relatively higher where Ministry of Transport's role is smaller. In Zulia,
where the state government finances 54% of road expenditure, the MTC finances only Bs. 163 per capita
(US$2.7). In Yaracuy, the state finances only 22% of the roads and MTC spends Bs. 2,222 (US$37) per
capita.
5.    In the states of Carabobo, Falcon, Yaracuy and Zulia, road expenditures represented 10%, 5%,
8% and 4% respectively of those states' budgets in 1991 (Table 2). The states complement rather than
substitute for central government financing. For example, in Zulia, despite the large participation of the
state in road financing (34%), the state has the lowest per capita expenditure on roads as well as the
lowest share of the situado allocated to this purpose. It seems that state governments do follow MTC
policies (rather than compensate for the lack of MTC funds) which would be expected since states have
little leverage on how the situado is allocated and depend on the center to decide on priority investments.
6.    Although the Decentralization Act has changed the obligation to coordinate with line ministries,
many states still do it mostly for financial reasons. Two States of the sample still coordinate their entire
road budget; the other two states appear to be more independent, but this conclusion may be more the
result of how items are recorded in the budget rather than a real autonomy of state governments. In fact,
some states still sign agreements (convenios) with MTC to coordinate their investment plans. For
example, the state of Falc6n's 1991 agreement (Convenio para la ejecuci6n del plan coordinado de
inversiones ejerciclo fiscal 1991) includes a total coordinated expenditure of Bs.272.5 m. of which
Bs.57.5 m. are from MTC and Bs.215 m. from Falcdn State budget.



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
Table 4.2: 1991 Per Capita Road Expenditures in Carabobo, Falc6n, Yaracuy and Zulia
Carabobo  Falcdn   Yaracuy  Zulia    Total
Per Capia
Car fleet (Bs/1000 inhab.)     92         57       37       66       70
MTC Expenditures (Bs/inhab)    548        1,039    2,221    163      564
Road state Expenditure (Bs/cap.)  470     361      627      192      336
as % of total state Exp.      46%        26%      22%      54%      37%
as % of situado               10%        5%       8%       4%       7%
Total State Expenditures.      22%        21%      37%      8%       18%
Source: MTC and state statistics
C. The Legal Framework for Decentralization
7.    In Venezuela the assignment of road responsibilities between levels of government is described
in two laws: (i) the 1978 LORM  (Ley Orgdnica del Regimen Municipal) delimits municipal
responsibilities; and (ii) the 1989 LOD (Ley Orgdnica de Decentralisacidn) redistributes responsibilities
between the states and the central government.
8.    For the States, the LOD distinguishes between two types of competences: exclusive competence
and joint competence. The main changes introduced by the law are as follows:
(a) the States will progressively be given joint competence over the construction and maintenance of
the road network of local interest (de interes estatal) although it does not specify the criteria that
could be used to define this network. (Art. 4) This transfer will be carried out through legal
agreements (convenios) between the central and the state governments (Art.6).
(b) LOD (Art. 11) gives to the states exclusive competence for the maintenance, administration and
benefits of the roads, bridges and freeways (autopistas) that are on its territory. For the interstate
roads this competence will be exercised jointly (mancomunidad) through convenios. It is generally
understood that the convenios mentioned in the law are agreements between the states crossed by
the interstate infrastructure and not between the states and the central government.
(c) each State annually prepares a coordinated plan for investments (Art. 16). The plan must-specify
the amounts that will come from central and local budgets. The difference with the previous
situation is that the mandatory consultation with the line ministry has been replaced by direct
coordination with the national government at the governor's convention. States have to spend at
least 50% of their situado in investments (Art. 17). Among others are defined as investments the
programs for construction and maintenance of communication network and transport services.
These investments must also be coordinated with the municipal investment plans.



- 46 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
9.    For municipalities, since 1978, the LORM  (Art.36) states that municipalities have exclusive
responsibility for the construction and maintenance of urban roads, management of traffic, and of urban
public transport services (it is not specified whether it is regulation or direct provision). In addition, they
have joint responsibility for the construction and maintenance of rural roads.
10.   The interest of the states is clearly to assume responsibility for bridges and toll-ways, which can
generate substantial revenues, and subcontract their administration and maintenance to private firms rather
than maintain the entire road networks. The State of Zulia has already taken over the administration of
the bridge over the Maracaibo lake, and some other states have plans to manage expressways and collect
tolls. In the absence of regulation, state governments can (freely) impose fees and charges on road users
and obtain sufficient income to maintain and operate them and leave a significant surplus. The central
government therefore needs to organize the decentralization process. The project includes a component,
the decentralization program, and technical assistance and training of staff, to assist the government in
decentralizing the management of highways.
D. Government's Decentralization Plan
11.   The Government has started to implement some elements of the Decentralization Act. An
Autonomous Service for Agricultural Roads (SAVA) was created to receive from DGSVT the
responsibilities for "agricultural' feeder and local access roads. A national (interministerial) as well as
regional and local committees, with representatives from the state and local governments, have been
established to decentralize feeder and local road expenditure decisions. The Government, however, still
needs to clearly define:
(a) a new classification of the country's road network, including the networks, the management of
which would be decentralized through SAVA, and the (interstate) network of national interest for
which the central government would retain at least some management responsibilities;
(b) a policy and a plan to decentralize responsibilities for the local and the interstate highways,
including the functions to be transferred and those to be retained at the central level;
(c) consistent road financing and funding policies and systems;
(d) the mechanisms to enforce, through regulation, or to encourage, for example through matching
grants, appropriate policies, technical norms and standards at the decentralized level, in the
interest of the nation; and
(e) a plan to assist the state governments in establishing appropriate technical and management
capabilities to carry out their responsibilities, and to transfer and/or reorganize the related
technical services in MTC's state directorates.
12.   The objective of the decentralization program is to prepare and implement a plan to gradually
decentralize the maintenance of the road networks, in accordance with the 1989 Decentralization Act. The
general policy is to gradually transfer expenditure responsibilities as well as financing, personnel and
equipment to the states, but resources will be transferred only when the state demonstrate the capability
to manage them efficiently. The decentralization strategy therefore consists in:



- 47 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 8
(a) entering into cooperation agreements with the states to define the modus operandi during the
transition period;
(b) providing assistance to the state to define its legal instruments and organizational set-up for road
maintenance;
(c) entering into decentralization agreements, which would define in particular: the respective
expenditure and financing responsibilities, including performance targets; the eligibility criteria
for federal funds, technical norms, standards and procedures to be followed by the state for
network maintenance and expressway concessions, and the supervisory and monitoring
arrangements; the organization of the state administration, including the conditions and timetable
for the transfer of personnel and assets; and the technical assistance and training of personnel to
be provided by MTC; and
(d) implementing the agreed technical assistance and training programs.
The strategy would first be tested with three pilot states (Carabobo, Guarico and Monagas), with which
cooperation agreements have already been signed, and to which some initial assistance is being provided.
The program would then be expanded to other states, depending upon the results of the pilot projects.
13.   Under the decentralization program, MTC/DGSVT would, with technical assistance:
(a) prepare a reclassification of the road networks;
(b) specify DGSVT, SAVA and the states' future responsibilities in managing the road networks;
(c) develop a plan and a timetable, including pilot projects in the three states, to gradually transfer
expenditure and financing responsibilities, reassign personnel, reallocate facilities and equipment;
(d) strengthen the pilot states' technical capabilities in road maintenance planning and management;
and
(e) provide assistance to the states in establishing concessions for expressways.
14.   As part of the decentralization strategy, MTC has defined:
(a) eligibility criteria for state participation first in the technical assistance and training program, then
in the program of works; they include: (i) the signing of a cooperation agreement with MTC to
organize the decentralization process; (ii) the promulgation of a state law by which the state
assumes responsibility for the maintenance of the road network in the state; and (iii) the signing
of a Decentralization and Institutional Strengthening Agreement with MTC which will clearly
define rights and obligations of the state and the central government in the transfer process.
(b) a framework agreement for negotiations with the states;
(c) the three pilot states (Monagas, Guarico and Carabobo) and a timetable to formalize
decentralization agreements with the pilot states; and



- 48 -
Annex 4
Paze 6of 8
(d) an institutional strengthening program, including technical assistance and training programs, and
the detailed technical assistance and training projects in the three pilot states.
15.   MTC is studying the feasibility of transferring responsibilities for the construction and/or
operation, maintenance and financing of expressways to the private sector. With the Decentralization Act,
however, the state governments, rather than MTC, have competence to establish the concessions. MTC
therefore needs to develop a model concession statute, including related regulatory, evaluation and
supervisory policies, mechanisms, criteria and methodologies, and to propose it to the states, under the
decentralization program, for inclusion in the respective state laws. MTC has established an expressway
concession unit under the Minister. The project would provide technical assistance to the unit for that
purpose.
E. Technical Assistance and Training Prozram
16.   The objectives of the institutional development program are to:
(a) organize a national system for the management of the maintenance of highways, including
expressways, bridges and tunnels;
(b) strengthen the capabilities of the state governments to manage the maintenance of the road
networks;
(c) help the decentralization process and transfer of competence from the central to the state
governments;
(d) train state government road maintenance staff; and
(e) strengthen the capabilities of MTC to plan, normalize and monitor the maintenance of the road
networks, and to effectively manage the implementation of the project.
17.   The program includes three components:
- technical assistance to the state governments;
- training of state government personnel;
- institutional strengthening of MTC.
(a) technical assistance to the state governments
18.   The main problems identified in most state administrations are: (a) the lack of effective
management systems, in particular in the areas of budget planning and monitoring, technico-economic
criteria and methodologies for investment project design and evaluation, and operations management; and
(b) the absence of adequate technical training for the staff.



- 49 -
Annex 4
Payg 7 of 8
19.   The program of technical assistance to the state governments aims at developing the administrative
and technical capabilities which are necessary to ensure the effective transfer of road maintenance
responsibilities, including establishing adequate organizational arrangements, strengthening budget
processes, and establishing appropriate planning and monitoring mechanisms to prepare and implement
rational investment and expenditure programs in coordination with the central government. The program
includes technical assistance components to cover the following areas:
(a) organization of road maintenance services;
(b) development and implementation of administrative and budget systems for road maintenance;
(c) identification, design and evaluation of road maintenance projects, programming and budgeting,
including definition and implementation of processes, criteria and methodologies;
(d) development and implementation of road databases and information systems for the monitoring
of the networks' condition; and
(e) specialized technical assistance in specific technical fields.
(b) training of state government personnel
20.   The objectives of this program are to:
(a) train groups of professionals in the programming and monitoring of road maintenance
expenditures;
(b) disseminate appropriate methodologies for the formulation, evaluation, programming and
budgeting of the road maintenance activities which will be the responsibility of the state
governments; and
(c) disseminate appropriate technical norms and standards for the design, execution and supervision
of road maintenance projects and programs, and appropriate procedures and forms of contracts
for procurement;
21.   The program includes the following three main components:
(a) seminars for the training of trainers (centrally organized) and subsequent training of state
professionals in the formulation, management and monitoring of road maintenance programs;
(b) a series of courses in engineering design and technico-economic evaluation of road naintenance
projects; and
(c) a series of courses in procurement and management of road maintenance contracts, and in
supervision and control of road maintenance works.



- 50 -
Annex 4
Paye 8 of 8
(c) Institutional strengthening of MTC
22.   The main objective of this program is to strengthen the Road Maintenance Direction (DCV) of
MTC in its strategic functions which will be critical to the success of the decentralization program. In
the short term, the objective is to strengthen its capacity to formulate, evaluate and manage the national
highway maintenance program, as well as to develop its capacity to manage the technical assistance
program to the state administrations, and to formulate and disseminate appropriate technical norms and
standards. In a second stage, when operational responsibilities are increasingly transferred to the states,
emphasis will be given to strengthening DCV's policy formulation, planning, national network
monitoring, normative, research and technology transfer functions.
23.   The program includes technical assistance and training subprojects in the following areas:
(a) preparation and evaluation of road maintenance projects and programs;
(b) coordination and monitoring of program of technical assistance to the state administrations;
(c) financial management and monitoring of road maintenance projects and programs;
(d) procurement, contract management and works supervision and control;
(e) development and implementation of road database, network monitoring and project information
systems; and
(f) specialized technical assistance in specific technical fields such as rehabilitation, repair and
maintenance of bridges and tunnels.
(d) technical assistance and trainine targets
24.   The following table summarizes the technical assistance and training targets for the above
institutional development program:
Table 4.3: Technical Assistance and Training Tareets
Program Item           Unit        Total    1993   1994   1995   1996    1997
Tech. Asst. to States  Man-month  240         60      60     50     40      30
Training of Trainers   Train.-Wk    500      200    200    100
Training of State staff    Train.-Wk   7000  500   2000   2000   1700    800
Tech. Asst. to MTC     Man-month  120         50      40     20     10
Training of MTC staff   Train.-wk    1500    300    300    300    300    300
25.   A summary of the quantity and cost estimates for the technical assistance and training program
is presented in Table 1.6, Annex 1.
November 1992



- 51 -
Annex 5
Page I of 4
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJE
Project Ouantities and Cost Estimates
A.   HiEhwav Rehabilitation and Resurfadna Program
1.    The quantities and cost estimates of the works included in this project have been assessed on the
basis of the information contained in Annexes 2 and 3, specifically:
*     the matrix of road condition versus traffic volume and network extension;
*     the definition of maintenance and rehabilitation strategies, and
*     the unit costs for the rehabilitation and resurfacing options.
2.    The total length of road sections to be resurfaced during the program  has been set to about
4,800Km, i.e., 45% of the overall extension of roads showing "fair condition", and having traffic
volumes exceeding 700 vpd. This percentage represents the highest priority portion of that sub-network
and is indeed justified, considering: (a) general budget constraints; and (b) a significant proportion of
that particular network at this time only requires maintenance interventions rather than resurfacing, but
it shall receive resurfacing attention in due time, beyond the 5-year period of implementation of this
project.
3.    While the first year program  is based on and duly justified by available engineering design
projects, the provision made for the following years programs are presently tentative in nature and shall
be properly adjusted as the pavement management system becomes operational.
4.    Table 5.1 hereafter summarizes the breakdown of unit costs pertaining to the maintenance standards
envisaged under the programs. These costs have been used to evaluate the total cost of the project and
to assess the economic rate of return of the rehabilitation and resurfacing sub-projects.
Table 5.1: Unit Costs for Maintenance & Rehabilitation Standards
Unit Cost in US$/Km x 1,000
Option           Standard         Patching        Drainasp h       Overdhy        Tot
Sigalization                   (rounded)
Resurfacing                     6              3.59           1I.50           10.14        3.0
7              3.89            12.40          10.14        27.0
8             3.89             3.50           10.14        16.0
14             7.34            35.07          26.90         70.0
15             7.25            22.20          26.70        5S8.0
RYSIzaltatA                     1              6.49            14.70          70.80         92.0
2              6.49            14.70          57.90        80.0
3              6.49            14.70          39.30        61.0
4              6.49            15.70          26.70        50.0
5              6.49            11.60          6.70         25.0
10            12.30            52.10         166.20        231.0
1 1           12.30            48.90          133.90       195.1
12            12.30            45.50         101.80        160.0
13            12.30            42.50          75.00        130.0
Source: DCSVTIDCV and mission egimates
5.    Table 5.2 hereafter summarizes the quantities and costs of the rehabilitation and resurfacing
components of the program over the next five years.



Table S2: Rebabililatioun *d Resurfawi, Ogantites and Cost lstmates
Price                         Quantities                                    Bse Cost (USS million)
Pmjct Component        Unit    US$th.   Total      1993      1994     1995     1996   1997    1993      1994    1995    1996    1997   Total
Rehabillatto
s.ld: 12.5 cm         Km       92.0      283                140      143                      0.0      12.9    13.2    0.0      0.0    26.0
t.d.2: 10.0 cm         Km        80.0     326        86      140      100                      6.8      11.2    8.0      0.0     0.0    26.0
st.3: 7.5 cm          Km        61.0     707       247      140      120      100    100    15.1       8.5      7.3     6.1     6.1    43.1
.s.4: 5.0 cm          Km       50.0      400                100      100      100    100      0.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0    20.0
.d.5: surftr.         Km       25.0    1,080                100      100      500    380      0.0      2.5     2.5   1.5       9.5    27.0
St. 10: 15.0cm        Km      231.0       63        14       49                               3.2      11.3    0.0      0.0     0.0    14.6
s .1.2: 10.0cm         Km       160.0      158       67       45       46                      10.7      7.2     7.4     0.0     0.0    25.2
st.13: 7.5 ca         Km       130.0      37                 37                               0.0      4.8     0.0      0.0     0.0     4.8
subtotal                         61.2    3,053      413      751      609      700    580    35.8       63.4   43.3    23.6    20.6   186.8
Resurfacing
.st.6: 7.5 cm         Km        33.0    1,024      181      250      200      200    193      6.0       8.3     6.6     6.6     6.4    33.8
.s.7: 5.0 cm          Km        27.0    2,419      24       600      600      600    595      0.6      16.2    16.2    16.2   16.1    65.3
.st.8: surf.tr.       Km        18.0     855                350      200      200    105      0.0       6.3     3.6     3.6     1.9    15.4
t.1.4: 7.5 cm         Km        70.0     251        45       95       80       31             3.2       6.7     5.6     2.2     0.0    17.6
. s.15: 5.0 cm        Km        56.0     239                 55       65       65      54     0.0       3.1     3.6     3.6     3.0    13.4
subtotal                         30.4    4,787      249     1350     1145      1096    947      9.7     40.5    35.6    32.2    27.3   145.4
Capacity increscs      Km        150       113                         37       38      38     0.0       0.0     5.6     5.7     5.7    17.0
Soure: DCV/DGSVT and mission estimates
AugS  1992IM



- 53 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
B.   Bridge and Tunnel Rehabilitation Program
6.    The total number of bridges on the road network in Venezuela is estimated at about 6,000 units,
70% of which are more than 30 years old. The lack of adequate maintenance and normal wear or fatigue
have resulted in a very large proportion of structures deserving immediate rehabilitation or major repair
works. A survey conducted on a sample of the highway network suggested that 30% of the bridges,
having a span of more than 30 meters, required intensive rehabilitation works. It was therefore decided
that this component should be incorporated in the program.
7.    For evaluation purposes, the following figures are noteworthy:
*     the respective costs of reconstruction, total rehabilitation and partial top priority repair of
bridges amount to US$500,000, 110,000 and 40,000 per unit, respectively;
*     some 1,200 bridge structures should be adequately dealt with, within the next 10 years, on
account of their vulnerable condition.
8.    Under the 5-year program, priority has been given to about half the total extension of the needs,
which represent some 340,000m2 of bridge area to be rehabilitated or repaired, i.e., approximately 650
to 700 bridges having an average individual overall length of 70m by 8m wide. The following table
shows the related quantity and cost estimates by year.
Table 5.3: Rehabilitation of Bridges and Tunnels
Prka.IUki                                  IB c a   ie
Prcj.aCmqwuu   Uait  us"   Thai  2993   2994  1995   199   2997 I993   2994   299   2996   299   TOW
R__blla. of rdgn and Tnmas
.MdgsuI.b.  00OM2   315   190     30    40    40     40     40    9.5   12.6   12.6  12.6   12.6   59.9
.g sps_i    CODm2   205   110    30    30   30    30    30   6.2   6.2   6.2   6.2   6.2   30.
.wnl bsb.    OWm.   77.7   152     5     45   26    13    13   4.3   3.5   2.0   IA    IA    2 2.I
mAA1                                                              19.9   22.2   20.8   19.3   19.   102.4
_:mm DCV/DGSVT ad lon sd_
9.    Bridges to be included under the program for rehabilitation and/or major repair works shall have
been selected on the basis of appropriate evaluation procedures - both technical and economical - and
will be submitted to Bank's approval, using agreed application forms.



- 54 -
Annex S
Page 4 of 4
C.   Routine Maintenance Program
10.   The maintenance component of the project involves about 30,000km of paved roads including
expressways. The related activities comprise:
*     pothole and crack patching on the pavement;
*     cleaning and repair of drainage structures as well as verge side vegetation control;
*     routine maintenance works on bridges; and
*     emergency  and  other intervention  which  might prove  necessary  during  project
implementation.
11.   Quantity and cost estimates are as follows:
Table 5.4: Routine and Emergency Maintenance
Mm            ~~~~~~Qmmkk.                    IBM C'" muS m
PwJ C _W-      WtU   USS   TOal  1993  1994  1995  1996  1917  199   19   1999  199  197   Tod
RLuM ad EaWmty Miimm
.pschg    W O0M3   85.0   MO    5        SD   40   30   30   4.3   4.   3.4   26   2.6  170
.dm_p & vwg   O001m   430.0   15O   39   39   30   3X   30  13.5  135   134   135  13    67p
.bd          OWM2   15.0  2.250  450   450  450  48   450   4                                 3.1
* in.owy A cam  b    100.0  2,000       20          2          3.   3.   20.0  20.0  3. m00.e
3m5w                                                           44*   44    4.7   4.   4.8  2183
Source: DCV/DGSVT aW.sku s im
12.   The estimated total cost of maintenance activities amounts to US$218.3m over the five years
implementation period, i.e., an average cost of approximately US$1,450 per kIm, per year, broken down
as follows:
* patching of potholes and cracks (US$1S10/km)
* maintenance of drainage, vegetation control (US$450/knm)
* bridge maintenance (US$230/km)
* emergency and other works (US660/km)
September 1992



- 55 -
Annex 6
Page I of 3
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Flrst-Year Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Program
A. Flrst-Year Rehabilitation Program
1.   The first-year highway rehabilitation program would consist of 19 road sections located in various
regions of the country. The total length of these sections is about 531.6 km.
2.   These sections and the related technical solutions were selected consistently with the network
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and standards which are described in Annex 3. The proposed
technical solutions as well as alternative solutions were also evaluated in economic terms (Annex 7).
3.   The detailed engineering designs of 10 road sections, totaling 214,4 km, have been completed
between May and August 1992. The detailed designs of the remaining nine sections totaling 317.2 km
have been completed between September and October 1992.
4.   The total estimated cost, based on the detailed engineering designs which were completed by
appraisal and on preliminary engineering for the other sections, is estimated at about US$45 million.
5.   Bids for the first package of the 10 road sections are scheduled to be called for in December 1992.
Bids for the second package would be invited in February 1993. Table 6.1 hereafter shows the scheduled
bidding, execution start-up and completion dates.
B. tlrst-Year Resurfacing Program
6.   The first-year highway resurfacing program would also consist of 19 road sections located in
various regions of the country. The total length of these sections is about 442.7 km.
7.   These sections and the related technical solutions were selected consistently with the network
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and standards which are described in Annex 3.
8.   Preliminary engineering designs have been completed by appraisal. Detailed engineering will be
completed in December 1992. Bids for a first package of resurfacing works are scheduled to be called
for in February 1993. Bids for the second packages would be invited in April 1993. All the first-year
resurfacing works would be completed by the end of 1993. The total cost of this program is estimated
at about US$17 million (Table 6.2).



- 56 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Table 6.1: Flrst-Year Highway Rehabilitation Program
Execution of Works
Lot No.   Highway Section                    Length   Completion    Call for   Start    Completion
Engineering   Bid
I        Alcabala De Veladero - Cruce L004    22.0    May 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Jun 93
Km S9+500- El Roario                11.5    May 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Jun 93
Crucc L004 - Km 20+300              20.3    May 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Jun 93
Sta. Babara- Aguatay                27.0    May 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Aug 93
CruceT013 - Sta. Baxtra              8.2    May 92       Dec 92    Fcb 93    Apr93
Bachrquero - Cdad, Ojeda            33.4    May 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Aug 93
Paraguaipoa - Paaguachon            16.0   Jun 92        Dec 92    Feb 93    Jun 93
Toyar- Bailadores                   13.0   Jul 92        Dec92    Fcb 93    Jun 93
Cdad. Ojeda - Bachaquero            33.4   Jul 92        Dec 92    Feb 93    Aug 93
Cataneja- Los Guayabitou            29.6    Aug 92       Dec 92    Feb 93    Aug93
Total 1 (kin):                     214.4
2         La Cciba - Lim. Monagu              40.0   Sep 92        Feb 92    Apr 93    Oct 93
Crucero De Maturin - LA Cdiba        4.0   Sep 92        Feb 92    Apr 93    Oct 93
Lim, Portugueaa - Rio Masparro       9.0   Sep 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Jul 93
San&re - Boca Del Tocuyo            17.0   Sep 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Aug 93
Boca Del Tocuyo - San Juan De Los   18.3   Sep 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Aug 93
Cayos
El Mil gro - El Pinal               32.0   Sep92         Feb 93    Apr93    Sep 93
Emp. TOOl - LA Ceiba                34.9   Sep92         Fcb 93    Apr 93    Sep 93
ria Juana - Cdad, Ojeda             14.0   Sep 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Jul 93
Emp L003 (Cabims) - Emb T017        10.0   Sep 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Jul 93
Guanare- La Morita                  44.0    Oct 92       Feb 93    Apr 93    Oct 93
Cop DeOro - Tariba                   8.0    Oct 92       Feb 93    Apr93    Jul 93
Valderma - Ptc. Venezuela           50.0   Oct 92        Feb 93    Apr 93    Oct 93
Total  + 2                        531.6
Source: DGSVT



- 57 -
Annex 6
Pag, 3 of 3
Table 6.2: First-Year Highway Resurfacing Program
Section               Description            Length   Traffio   Cost (USS million)
LOOI PA     San Luis - Emp T004 (El Tigre)     7.2        306                 0.28
R007 ME    Merida - San Javier Del Valle       5.0       2,439                0.19
T007 ME    Mucuruba - Tabay                   19.9       5,568                0.77
T007 ME    Tabay - Merida                     11.0       5,276                0.42
T007 ME    Estanquez - Ptc, Victoria          10.0       5,142                0.38
T007 ME    Santa Cruz - Tovar                 14.8       3,712                0.57
T012 MI    Carencro - Com TC T009             48.9       5,819                1.88
TOW Ml    Guarenas-El Rodeo-CTC T012         47.7      10,381                1.83
T009 Ml    Com TC T012 - Pin TC T012           2.5      10,381                0.10
T009 Ml    FPC T012-Cruce LOOS (El Guapo)    56.1        6,024                2.16
T009 Ml    El Guapo - Lim Anzoategui          61.5       1,161                2.37
R020 MI    Emp T012 - Curiepe - Biorongo      18.5       1,100                0.71
ROll PO     Guanare - Papelon                 37.4       1.160                1.44
TOOS TA     La Pedrmr - El Milagro            15.0       4,004                0.58
L007 TA     Urmna - San Antonio               15.0       8,656                0.58
TOOl YA     El Guayabo - Lim Carabobo          9.1       6,313                0.35
LOO1 YA     Macagua - Agua Linda              13.1       7,372                O.SO
L003 ZU     Sta. Rita- Cabimas                32.0       2,100                1.23
L002 ZU     Encontrados - Valderama           18.0        657                 0.69
Total                            442.7        527                17.03
Source: DGSVT
November 1992



- 58 -
Annex 7
Page I of 5
VENEZU
HIGHWAY MANAGENMNT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of First Year Program
1.   The economic analysis of the first year rehabilitation program has been carried out using the HDM
HI model and the most recent paved road standards HDM-Eu Shell (HDMPAVED). The program is
designed to perform an evaluation of a set of maintenance standards applied to a paved road. It computes
the road deterioration and the costs streams for each of the maintenance standards being evaluated, as well
as the economic indicators used to compare these standards, i.e., present net values and economic rates
of return.
A.    AnalyiF
2.   Analysis were conducted for 17 road segments totalling 581.6km. An analysis period of 20 years
was selected, the construction year for rehabilitation works being 1993. Net present values were
calculated using a discount rate of 12% and all costs are expressed in US dollars.
B.   Road Characteristics
3.   The road characteristics for the 17 individual segments were obtained from road condition surveys
and traffic counts undertaken by DGSVT in 1991. The following information were generally available
for each segment:
*    geometrical features, including the length, width, curvature and rise and fall parameters of
the road section
*    surface condition, as rated using the PCI method, from which roughness values were
derived
*    pavement constitution, with corresponding present structural number and subgrade CBR
values
*    environmental features including average altitude and rainfall values
*    daily traffic volumes and annual growth for each vehicle type
C.   Vehide   Qa3hda Codst
4.   The program assesses vehicle operating costs from the data entered to characterize the typical
vehicle fleet in Venezuela. Appropriate values were selected for each vehicle type, and are given in table
7.1 hereafter to illustrate the outputs to the model.



- 59 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of S
Table 7.1: Vehicle Operating Costs (USS/Veh. x kin) 1/
Vebile Type                                  %      W'-2    W1-4       W1-6      W-85  Du-10    W1-15
Car                                         42      0.125    0.135     0.151    0.173   0.204     0.287
Car fo Ned                                  29.4   0.064    0.066     0.071     0.074   0.082     0.105
Lar Bus                                      1.1   0.529    0.55      0.608     0.672   0.750     1.005
Medium D                                     2.7   0.368    0.39       0.423    0.467   0.522     0.70
Medium Tnack                                19.4   0.306     0.332    0.373     0.424   0.482    0.642
KeavyTnuck                                   2.9   0.665     0.730    0.S1I     0.924    1.043    1.366
ArTculaldTnaek                               2.5   0.871    0.945      1.067    1.219   1.387     1.S39
For typica mixed traffic n FeA. prognim            0.178    0.196      0.225    0.254   0.290    0.392
J/ TypiW VOC o C-2  Paved toed Ak-60m 2  nora laws
5.    Typical vehicle operating costs for mixed traffic assuming lightly rolling terrain condition, can be
approximated as follows, as a function of road roughness:
Roughness Level IRI                    VOCVeh-Km  (USS)
2                                   0.178
4                                    0.196
6                                   0.225
8                                   0.254
10                                   0.290
15                                   0.392
VOC can be expressed by the following relationship:
VOC in USS/veh x km  = 0.155 * 0-0617, r2-0-.
D.    Maintenance and Rehabilitation - Financial and Economic Costs
6.    Maintenance and rehabilitation of financial costs were obtained from  calculation performed by
DGSVT (Annex 5). Economic costs were taken as being equal to 1.39 times the financial costs, the
conversion factors for the various components of rehabilitation works being as follows:
Component             Ratio of Economic to Financial Costs
Gasoline                                  2.60
Gasoil                                     3.30
Asphalt                                    2.50
Equipment                                  1.34
Qualified labor                            1.00
Unqualified labor                          0.55
Foreign exchange                           1.36



- 60 -
Annex 7
PiLge 3 of S
7.   Maintenance and rehabilitation unit costs introduced in the program are summarized below:
Description of Works              Financial Costs  Economic Costs
Routine Maintenance US$/km            1,500           2,085
Patching US$/m2                        2.9             4.03
Reseal: double surface treat US$/m2    3.4             4.73
Overlay: 75mm A.C. US$/m2              8.28            11.5
Reconstruction US$/m2                  25              34.7
E.   Maintenance Standards
8.   For comparison purposes, five maintenance standards have been selected, as described below:
Standard 1: is the base standard and corresponds to routine maintenance including essentially very
localized repairs of pavement and shoulder defects as well as vegetation control and
regular maintenance of road drainage, verges and side slopes. This standard allows
for reconstruction to eventually take place when the roughness level reaches a critical
value of 11 IRI.
Standard 2: corresponds to the rehabilitation project as envisaged under the program, for each
particular segment. It consistently call for a bituminous concrete overlay ranging in
thickness from 7.5 to 15cm depending upon traffic volume. Overlay works are
assumed to take place after routine maintenance and adequate patching of all
pavement defects have been carried out.
atandard 3: has been selected to represent the thinnest overlay envisageable for rehabilitation
purposes, i.e., 50mm of asphaltic concrete. It is triggered as soon as roughness level
reaches 4.5 IRI and is also preceded by all necessary routine maintenance and
patching works.
standard : corresponds to the thickest overlay which could be envisaged under the program,
i.e., assuming a 180mm thickness of asphaltic concrete comprising of a 120mm
bituminous macadam base course overlain by a 60mm asphaltic concrete wearing
course. A responsive mechanism for triggering overlay was set at 4.5 IRI. Again,
all routine repairs and patching activities are assumed to have been completed before
overlay works are undertaken.
standard 5: allows for periodic resurfacing of the pavement, using a double-surface treatment
triggered at 7 years intervals. Prior to resealing operations, normal maintenance and
pothole patching activities are supposed to have been implemented.



- 61 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
F. Analysis and Results
9.   From the analyses performed, the consolidated economic rate of return for the first year program
is estimated at 53%, the range of values obtained for individual road segments extending from 34% to
74%, thus indicating that the proposed investments are timely and economically justified.
10.  The analyses further suggest that;
(a)  the rehabilitation techniques using asphaltic concrete overlay in the range of thickness
selected for the project, generally yield the highest net present values at a discount rate of 12%;
and
(b)  investment costs would have to be increased by over 300% for the internal rate of return
to fall below 12%.
11.  The following table summarizes the results of the economic evaluation, segment by segment,
highlighting, in particular, total agency costs, traffic volumes, net present values and internal rates of
return, for each individual road link.
September 1992



REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SUMMARY TABLE OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Rehabilitation            Total          Average        Net Pre ent       ERR
Daily     A.C. Overlay                 Agency Cost      Rehab. Coat       Value of        of the
Ident.                     Road Name                       Length     Traffic     Thicknes       Standard     of Rehsblit.       per Km        Rehab. Proj.      Project
No.                                                       (Kin)      Volume         (cm)                        & Mill.        S x 1000       at 12 % Disc.       %
I   Alcabala de Velader - Cruce L004                    22.0      3,874             10.0          2              3.08            78.1              9.7          62
2   Km 59+500-ElRoario                                  11.5      3,400             10.0           2             1.45            78.1              4.6          54
*3   Cruco L004- Km 20 + 300                            20.3
*4   Sta, Barbara - Agusaay                             27.0
5   Cruce T013 - Su, Barbara                             8.2      2,714              7.5           3             0.97            60.5              3.3          66
**6   Bachaquero- Cdad, Ojeds                            33.4      5,428             10.0          12             9.02             84.5            10.8          38
7   Paraguaipoa - Paraguachon                           16.0      2,238              7.5           3             1.62            60.5              4.1          52
8   Tovar - Biladorer                                   13.0      3,141             10.0           2             1.64            78.1              4.7          50
**9   Cdad, Ojeda - Bachequero                           33.4      4,985             10.0          12             9.02            84.5             10.7          38
10   Catsneja - Los Ouayabitos                           29.6      2,281              7.5           3             3.00            60.5              8.9          42         f
*11   La ceiba - Um. Monagas                             40.0
12   Crucero De Maturin - LA Ceiba                       40.0      2,621              7.5           3             4.61            60.5             14.1          66
13  ULm. Portuguea - Rio Masprao                          9.0
14   S anre - Boca Del Tocuyo                            17.0                         7.5           3                             60.5
15   Boca Del Tocuyo-San Juan De Los Cayoa               19.3      1,611              7.5           3             1.86                              5.5          44
16   El Milagro - El Pinal                               32.0      3,588             10.0           2             4.02            78.1             16.8          52
17   Enp. T001 - LA Ceiba                                34.9      1,799              7.5           3             3.54            60.5             10.5          44
*5i8   Tia Juana - Cdad, Ojeda                             14.0     13,079            15.0          10             4.26            121.7              8.7         52
19   Emp L003 (Cabimaa) - Emp T017                       10.0      4,229             10.0           2             1.40            7S.1              3.7          66
20   Guanare - La Morit                                  44.0      2,478              7.5           3             5.22            60.5             22.1          72
21   Cops De Oro - Tariba                                 8.0      2,966              7.5           3             0.91            60.5              3.3          74
22   Valdernam  - PEl  Venezuela                         50.0      1,420              7.5           2             5.07            60.5             10.6          34
TOTAL                          532.6      3,638              8.9         4.1            60.69             72.1           152.1          53
* no informaton available
*22 [an  highways                                                                                                                                                                      -_



- 63 -
Annex 8
Page I gf 2
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1.    MTC/DGSVT would, as part of their action programs to strengthen contract management and
program monitoring, establish an appropriate system to monitor the implementation of the project,
including the production of adequate information to report to MTC/DGSVT management and to the Bank,
in accordance with the specifications included in agreed terms of reference. MTC/DGSVT will prepare
and forward to the Bank quarterly progress reports satisfactory to the Bank, not later than one month after
the end of each quarter.
2.    In supervising the project's implementation, the Bank will particularly review, approve and/or
comment on the following documents: (a) application forms for financing investments included in the
annual rehabilitation, resurfacing, bridge, tunnel and signaling programs; (b) annual procurement and
execution programs; (c) procurement documentation for civil works and equipment; (d) terms of
reference, invitation letters, short-lists and draft contract for consultant services; and (e) the quarterly
progress reports. In order to expedite the review of the above documents by the Bank, a first level of
review will be carried out by MTC/DGSVT's project management unit prior to forwarding the documents
to the Bank.
3.    The Bank will monitor the implementation of the project, including the engineering, procurement
and execution programs and the action programs and related technical assistance and training, against the
physical and financial targets and timetables included in the Implementation Program. A mid-term,
detailed review of the implementation of the project will be carried out in the third quarter of 1995. The
review will cover all the agreed actions, targets dates, and execution targets included in the
Implementation Program and the status of compliance with all covenants of the Loan Agreement.
Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrower's commitment to provide adequate funds for
maintenance, including counterpart funds for the project, and to establish appropriate cost-recovery and
funding mechanisms; and (b) MTC/DGSVT's performance under the agreed policy and institutional
development action plan. The Bank will have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including
suspension of disbursements and termination of the loan, if the Borrower has defaulted under the cost-
recovery and funding conditions and/or the MTC/DGSVT's performance under the action plan is not
satisfactory.
4.    The Bank's supervision and monitoring activities will be coordinated with those of the Inter-
American Development Bank with a view to avoid duplication of efforts. In particular, joint supervision
missions will be scheduled so as to optimize staffing to the extent possible. The Bank will supervise and
monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with the Plain presented on the next page. The
estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities, which are shown in the table of this annex, take
into consideration the coordination with IDB and the expected support from MTC/DGSVT's project
management unit, as well as the need for staff training to carry out their tasks.



- 64 -
Annex 8
VENEZUELA                                            Page 2 of 2
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bank Supervision InRut into Key Activities
-_                            .                                                                           -   .. .
Approx.                      Key Activities                             Expected Skill             Stf.lnput
Dates                                                                   Requirements              staff-wks 
1/93       Project Launch Workshop                         Highway Engineer                         6.0
Transport Economist
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Ofricer
4/93       Supervision Mission: review status re.          Highway Engineer                         6.0
organizational arrangements and monitoring     Institutional Speciaist
ystems, contracting of TA, procurement of 1993  Transport Economist
programs, budgets.
10/93      Supervision Mission: review progress under TA,    Highway Engineer                       8.0
staff training, engineering, procurement and civil    Transport Economist
works programs, and preparation of 1994 works  Institutional/Training Specialist
programs.
4/94       Supervision Mission: review progress on ongoing  Highway Engineer                        6.0
institutional (decentralization), investment and  Operations Assistant
procurement programs, and accounting           Institutional Training Specialist
documentation.
10/94      Supervision Mission: review progress under TA,    Highway Engineer                       6.0
staff training, engineering, procurement and civil    Transport Economist
works programs, preparation of 1995 programs,  Operations Assistant
budget.
4/95       Supervision Mission: review progress on ongoing  Highway Engineer                        6.0
institutional (decentralization), investment and  Transport Economist
procurement programs, and accounting           Institutional/Training Specialist
documentation.
9/95       Supervision Mission: mid-term review of the     Highway Engineer                         10.0
projea's implementation, incl. implementation of    Transport Economist
cost-recovery and funding action plan, and general   Operations Assistant
l__________  compliance with loan covenants.                 Institutional/Training Spocialist
FY97       Two Supervision Missions                        Highway Engineer                         10.0
Transport Economist
Operations Assistant                              l
FY98       Two Supervision Missions                        Highway Engineer                         10.0
Transport Economist
Operations Assistant
FY99       Loan Closing                                    Highway Engineer                         10.0
(Project completion report)                    Transport Economist
Operations Assistant
ove  er                                    ..                         



- 65 -
Annex 9
Page I of 2
VENEZUELA
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJEC
Selected Documents and Data Available In the Proiect Fille
Bank Mission Documents
1. Project Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, April 1992
2. Project Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, November 1991
3. Final Executive Project Summary Package, April 1992
4. Pavement Management Consultant Report, P. Autret, May 1992
5. Private Financing Consultant Report, C. Williams, May 1992
6. Evaluacion del Programa de Autopistas, E. Barriga, Sep. 1991
Borrowers' Documents
7. Plano Plurianual de Mantenimiento e Rehabilitacion de Carreteras, Mayo 1991
8. Estrategia Para el Mantenimiento Rutinario, J. Caraballo, Junio 1992
9. Programa Plurianual MTC-BID-BIRF
10. Cronograma de Inversion en Autopistas
11. Recursos Fundo Vial, 1992-97
12. Cuadro de Ejecucion Presupuestaria 83-91, DGSVT
13. Pronostico Presupuestario 92-97, DGSVT
14. Criterios de Seleccion de los Distintos Componentes
15. Propuesta Preliminar para la reglamentacion del Proceso de Contratacion
16. Programa del lo. Ano, Carreteras, 15-07-92
17. Programa de Tuneles del lo. Ano
18. Informacion CORDIPLAN
19. Esquema de Seguimiento de la Condicion de la Rede Vial Principal, Junio 1992
20. Terminos de Referencia Estudios para Gerencia de Carreteras, Junio 11, 1992
21. Terminos de Referencia Estudios para Gerencia de Puentes, Junio 11, 1992
22. Estudio de Cargos a los Usuarios, Terminos de Referencia, Junio 10, 1992
23. Politica de Recuperacion de Costos
24. Documento el Prestatario y el Ejecutor
25. Participacion de los Usuarios en el Sector Transporte
26. Propuesta de Creacion de la Unidade de Credito Externo
27. Estrategia de Decentralizacion e Transferencia de Competenclas a los Estados, 2-7-92
28. Programa de Privatizacion de Autopistas
29. Convenio de Transferencia, Desarollo Institucional y Coordenacion, Agosto 1992
30. Decreto de Ley de Conservacion del Estado de Aragua
31. Proyectos de Asistencia Tecnica, Estado de Monagas
32. Proyectos de Asistencia Tecnica, Estado de Carabobo



-66 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
33. Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional, Junio 1992
34. Estudios Complementarios del Ferrocarril Caracas-Pto Cabello, 1/8/92
35. Propuesta para la Creacion de la Oficina de Gestion Ambiental en el MTC, Mayo 1992
36. Ley de Conservacion del Estado de Guarico
37. Convenio de Transferencia, Desarollo Institucional y Coordenacion del Estado de Guarico
38. Informe Final, Consultoria de Procesos del Area de Planificacion y Proyectos del MTC
39. Documento de Politicas sobre Recuperacion de Costos de Infraestrutura Vial, Octubre 15, 1992
November 1992



MAP SECTION






IBRD 221
70     68                             66                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6k     6'2
NEn4Eh= ANsU             Caribbean                        Sea
_                                                                                                                TM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAD~~~~~~~RND
~~~v<@_--12-
T.dd  TOMIGO
s/ ; I GlO.- 
~~~G oe  FdrlTrto.r                                                                                               Cptols. S(g{rTSADol
AMACURO-
2-~~~~___    *leationo ails:t3(-i 
8.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Oe 50  n?r                                                                                                                                                                                               8.~       ..d .
-   State or Federal Terriory Capits                                                                   . 
EleNationalCpta:s.,(~
~~~0- 1 00 20 C  S    f   .,
-2t 70- OE- tntentinal y.oUndarieONAs 
00          00200
KILOMtIERS  7o     68  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   B  R  AZ   I L                                                                             1J~~~~~~~~~2160
Major Roods ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     6*                                                                       5At
Rivers                                                                                                                                    W, LUCIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aex19



