Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3553 VE
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Highway Management Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated November 3, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3553 VE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the execution
of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower's Law "Ley Que
Autoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional para la Contratacion y Ejecucion de
Operaciones de Credito Publico Durante el Ejercicio Fiscal 1994" published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette Issue No. 35.568 dated October 17, 1994;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Bolivar" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
      (b)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (c)   "DCV" means the Directorate of Road Maintenance,
Direccion de Conservacion Vial, within DGSVT (as hereinafter defined);
      (d)   "DCV Task Forces" means the two separate task forces, within
DCV, to be created by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement; such task forces to be in charge of assisting the Borrower in
coordinating the design and implementation of the pavement management system
and the bridge management system referred to under Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
      (e)   "Decentralization Legal Framework" means the Borrower's Ley
Organica de Decentralizacion, Delimitacion y Transferencia de Competencias
del Poder Publico - (Ley Organica), dated December 20, 1989 and published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette extraordinary issue 4153 dated December
28, 1989 and any other legal norms, including decretos, reglamentos and
resoluciones, which have been or may be enacted pursuant to the above Ley
Organica;
      (f)   "DGSVT" means the General Directorate of Roads, Direccion
General Sectorial de Vialidad Terrestre, within MTC (as hereinafter
defined);
      (g)   "Eligible State" means any State (as hereinafter defined) which
has been declared eligible to receive technical assistance and training
under Part A of the Project pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject (as hereinafter
defined) which: (i) meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); (ii) has been approved by the
Bank for financing under the Project; and (iii) will be carried out by the
Borrower, through MTC, (as hereinafter defined) or by a State (as
hereinafter defined) provided that all the requirements under Section 3.06
have been fulfilled;
      (i)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing in
January 1 and ending on December 31;
      (j)   "MTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications, Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones;
      (k)   "MTC Task Forces" means the two separate task forces to be
created by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; such
task forces to be in charge of assisting the Borrower to prepare and
implement the plans on decentralization of the highway management and on
cost-recovery and maintenance funding policies and mechanisms, referred to
under Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (l)   "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
Page  3
      (m)   "Participating State" means any State which participates in the
execution of Part B and/or Part C of the Project pursuant to, and in
accordance with, Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Pilot State" means the State of Monagas or the State of Guarico
or the State of Aragua;
      (o)   "Project Coordinator" means the official referred to in Section
3.02 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
      (p)   "Project Management Unit" means the unit, within DCV, to be
created pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; such unit to be in
charge of the overall coordination of the Project activities under the
responsibility of DGSVT;
      (q)   "SAVA" means MTC's Servicio Autonomo de Vialidad Agricola, the
Autonomous Service of Agricultural Roads;
      (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (s)   "State" means an Estado, a political unit established under the
Constitution of Venezuela;
      (t)   "State Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section 3.06 (a) (iii) or (b) of this Agreement; and
      (u)   "Subproject" means a specific investment project consisting of
pavement rehabilitation and/or pavement resurfacing of highways; bridge
rehabilitation and/or repair; tunnel rehabili- tation; and/or signalization
and marking of highways. A Subproject may include services for the
engineering designs and supervision of the civil works included in the
respective Subproject.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Page  4
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
                (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
                      the date immediately preceding each date specified in
                      Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
                      Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
               (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                      reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                      percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
                      of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                      such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
                      allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
                      (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                      1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                      as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
              (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                      six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
    the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
    Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
    of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
    each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
    Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
    during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
    during such Interest Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
    Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
    determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
    January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency, in
accordance with the Operational Manual and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, road safety, financial, administrative and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  5
    (c)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall select the
specific Subprojects to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan and carry
out the activities under Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the
criteria and requirements set forth in a manual, satisfactory to the Bank
(the Operational Manual), which shall contain the technical and economic
criteria, metho- dologies, policies, and requirements, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be applied by the Borrower in the selection, evaluation, design,
maintenance and rehabilitation of highways, tunnels and bridges. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not abrogate or amend the
Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, for purposes of the execution and
coordination of the Project: (a) maintain in MTC and DGSVT an adequate
structure, functions and staffing for the efficient implementation and
supervision of the Project; and (b) without limitation to paragraph (a)
above: (i) maintain in DGSVT, during the execution of the Project, the
Project Management Unit, and the DCV Task Forces, with staffing,
responsibilities and functions (including the qualifications and experience
of the manager of the Project Management Unit), satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) maintain in MTC, during the execution of the Project, the MTC Task
Forces, with staffing, responsibilities and functions satis- factory to the
Bank; and (iii) maintain in DGSVT a project coordinator with qualifications,
experience and terms of employment acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   during the last quarter of 1997, hold a review with the Bank, to
evaluate, among other matters, the progress in the execution, and in the
achievement of the objectives, of each of the activities of the Project,
focusing primarily on the provision by the Borrower of the counterpart funds
for the Project, the implementation of road cost recovery and maintenance
funding policies and mechanisms and the highway management decentralization
plan. In assessing progress in the implementation of Parts B and C of the
Project, the Bank and the Borrower shall take into account the targets set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (b)    without limitation to any of its the Bank's rights under this
Agreement, if as a result of the review referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Bank determines that the progress in the execution of the
Project, or in the achievement of the objectives of the Project is not
satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take all such remedial action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution
of the Project and to achieve the objectives of the Project.
    Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.05. For purposes of receiving technical assistance and
training under Part A.2 of the Project in connection with the
decentralization process of the management of the highway network, a State
must meet the following requirements:
    (a)   the State must be a Pilot State; or
    (b)   if the State is not a Pilot State: (i) the Borrower and the Bank,
taking into account the experience with the Pilot States, have agreed that
the respective State receive technical assistance and training; and (ii) the
respective State has met the following eligibility criteria:
          (A)   the respective State has entered into an agreement,
                satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with MTC,
                including, inter alia: (1) a declaration of the respective
                State's intent to assume the responsibilities of the
                management of its highway network pursuant to the Decentra-
                lization Legal Framework; and (2) commitment by the
                respective State and MTC to execute a detailed technical
                assistance and training plan, and timetable therefor, to
                strengthen the capabilities of the State in the management
                of its highway network; and
Page  6
          (B)   the Borrower and the Bank have mutually determined that the
                respective State has an adequate organizational structure
                and counterpart staff to execute the above detailed
                technical assistance and training plan.
    Section 3.06. Upon the assumption of the relevant responsibilities by
a State pursuant to the Decentralization Legal Framework:
    (a)   the respective State may participate in the execution of
Subprojects and receive the corresponding portion of Loan proceeds,
provided, however, that the following conditions are met:
          (i)   the Borrower and the Bank mutually agree that such State
                has adequate capabilities and resources to carry out the
                relevant Project activities;
         (ii)   the Borrower and the State have defined, inter alia,
                through a contract or other adequate legal means
                satisfactory to the Bank, the specific responsibilities of
                MTC and the State concerning the operation and maintenance
                of the highway network in the State and the financing of
                such activities; the specific organizational arrange- ments
                at the State level for executing the above activities which
                may include a time-bound plan for transferring the relevant
                personnel and/or physical assets of MTC to the State; and
                a detailed technical assistance and training plan to assist
                the State in carrying out the operation and maintenance of
                its highways network; and
        (iii)   the Borrower and the State have entered into an agreement,
                satisfactory to the Bank, providing for: (A) the transfer
                by the Borrower to the State of the Borrower's share of
                funds, including Loan proceeds, to carry out the respective
                Project activities; (B) the State's commitment to carry out
                the relevant Project activities, including routine
                maintenance operations under Part C of the Project within
                its jurisdiction, and provide its own share of funds and
                resources to carry out such Project activities; (C) pro-
                visions related to the execution of the relevant Project
                activities including procurement, accounting and auditing
                requirements, and adherence to the Operational Manual; (D)
                the State's commitment to take all necessary action and
                measures, within its power, to ensure the implementation of
                the policy and institutional development program under Part
                A of the Project; and (E) any other requirements that may
                be necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the
                Project or the efficient implementation and supervision of
                the relevant Project activities.
    (b)   Irrespective of whether the respective State participates under
Part B of the Project pursuant to the provisions in paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower, through MTC, shall ensure, through an agreement with such State
or other adequate means satisfactory to the Bank, that the routine
maintenance operations under Part C of the Project within the jurisdiction
of the respective State shall be implemented including the provision of
adequate and necessary funds, facilities and other resources required
therefor.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
                (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
Page  7
                      paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                      Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                      accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                      consistently applied, by independent auditors
                      acceptable to the Bank;
               (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                      case not later than six months after the end of each
                      such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                      of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                      have reasonably requested; and
              (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                      said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                      the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                      with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                      accounts reflecting such expenditures;
               (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                      received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                      which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                      made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                      bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                      expenditures;
              (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                      records; and
               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                      the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                      Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                      separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during such
                      fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                      internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                      be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any Participating
State shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
respective State Agreement. In such a case, the Bank may, after consultation
with the Borrower, limit the suspension of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account to withdrawals in respect of Project
expenditures related to the Participating State or States affected.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   the Borrower shall have established, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the MTC Task Forces and the DCV Task Forces;
    (b)   the Borrower shall have employed or appointed, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, the Project Coordinator;
    (c)   the Borrower shall have established, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the Project Management Unit;
Page  8
    (d)   the Borrower shall have approved, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, the Operational Manual; and
    (e)   the Borrower shall have provided adequate budgetary allocations
for the 1995 rehabilitation and maintenance program of DCV.
    Section 6.02. The date February 3, 1995 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Direccion General
          Sectorial de Finanzas Publicas
          Edificio Norte, Piso 5
          Centro Simon Bolivar
          Caracas 1010, Venezuela
          Cable address:                Telex:
                                          24215 HDACP
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                By /s/ Pedro Luis Esheverria
                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                Regional Vice President
                Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  9
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works              122,000,000        50%
(2) Goods                        500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
(3) Consultants'              12,500,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures and
    including                                   50% of local
    training                                    expenditures
(4) Unallocated               15,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               150,000,000
                             ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $15,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3), on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after October 31, 1993; (b) expenditures under a
Subproject unless it is an Eligible Subproject approved by the Bank for
financing under the Project; and (c) expenditures by any of the States under
an Eligible Subproject unless the Bank has received a duly certified copy
of the respective State Agreement together with an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing that
the respective State Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the respective State
and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its
terms.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The main objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and maintain the
national paved highway network and establish sustain-  able institutional
mechanisms, including phased decentralization, to ensure an adequate and
permanent maintenance of such network. Other specific objectives of the
Project are to: (a) promote private sector participation in the transport
sector by contracting out routine maintenance activities and the transfer
of expressways to private concessionaires; (b) develop and establish
policies and mechanisms for an efficient cost recovery and adequate funding
Page  10
of road maintenance; (c) strengthen the operational road administration
units of MTC and the States, and policy formulation, planning and monitoring
capabilities of MTC; and (d) develop, and improve compliance with,
environmental standards in the transport sector particularly for highways.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy and Institutional Development Program
1.  A program consisting of: (a) the design and implementation of a plan to
decentralize the maintenance of the road network and to transfer the
management of expressways to private concessionaires; (b) the design and
implementation of appropriate policies and mechanisms on road cost recovery
and maintenance funding; (c) the design and implementation of a highway
management system; (d) the design and implementation of a plan to contract
out maintenance operations; (e) the design and implementation of a plan to
strengthen technical capabilities of the State directorates of MTC and the
public works departments of the Eligible States; and (f) the design and
implementation of a plan to develop, implement and monitor environmental
standards and guidelines for roads
2.  Provision of technical assistance and training to assist in the
implementation of the program in Part A.1 above. Such technical assistance
shall be provided to MTC and to the Eligible States.
Part B:   Investment Program
    A program consisting in the execution of Subprojects and comprising: (a)
the rehabilitation of about 3,000 kilometers of highways including the
widening of about 100 kilometers of highways; (b) the resurfacing of about
4,800 kilometers of highways; (c) the rehabilitation or repair of bridges
of an aggregated deck area of about 500,000 square meters; (d) the
rehabilitation of tunnel sections totaling about 8,000 meters in length; (e)
the signa- lization, including pavement marking and vertical signalization,
on about 4,000 kilometers of highways; and (f) the engineering designs and
supervision related to the above referred civil works.
Part C:   Routine Maintenance Program
    A program of routine maintenance operations involving about 30,000
kilometers of paved roads including expressways; such program to include:
(a) the patching of potholes and cracks in an approxi- mate amount of
200,000 cubic meters of materials on the entire highway network; (b) the
cleaning of drainage systems and control of vegetation on the entire highway
network; (c) the maintenance of about 2,200,000 square meters of bridges;
(d) the maintenance of horizontal and vertical signalization on the entire
highway network; and (e) additional emergency works.
                               *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning June 15, 1998
     through December 15, 2007                $7,500,000
Page  11
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed
                                  as a percentage per annum)
                                  applicable to the Loan on the
                                  day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                          0.73
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years                              1.00
     before maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Venezuela may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $160,000,000, and goods
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
Page  12
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 per contract or less,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Part D:   Standard Bidding Documents
    In the procurement of works and goods, the Borrower shall utilize, or
cause to be utilized, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part A of this
Schedule, the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded under
Part C.1 of this Schedule, and each contract for works to be awarded under
Part C.1 of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultants Guidelines"),
except that prior review by the Bank pursuant to paragraphs 2.09, 2.13,
2.21, 2.39, 2.41 and 2.44 of said Consultants Guidelines shall not apply to
contracts costing the equivalent of $25,000 or less.
2.  The contracts exempted from such prior review shall be subject to ex
post review by the Bank, and if pursuant to such review the Bank determines
that the employment of consultants under such contracts is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule or in the
Consultant Guidelines and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect
of such employment which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such
amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be
cancelled.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
Part A:   Policy and Institutional Development Program
Page  13
Decentralization of the Management of the Road Network
1.  Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a detailed
action plan (including a timetable therefor) to gradually decentralize the
management of the road network; such plan to include actions to be taken by
the Borrower's Executive Branch including: (a) the reclassification of the
road networks; (b) the redefinition of the administrative and financing
responsibilities of DGSVT, SAVA and the States; (c) reassignment of
personnel; (d) reallocation of assets; (e) the development of appropriate
road maintenance capabilities at the decentralized levels; and (f) measures
to assist the States in establishing concessions for expressways.
2.  Furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later than June
30, 1995 the above referred action plan.
3.  Implement the above referred action plan, taking into account the Bank's
comments and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Cost Recovery and Maintenance Funding
1.  Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a detailed
plan of actions (including a timetable therefor) to be taken by the
Borrower's Executive Branch (including, if required, the submission of
proposed legislation to the Borrower's Congress) such plan to design and
implement appropriate cost recovery and funding mechanisms in respect of
maintenance of the road network, and to gradually adjust road user charges
in such a manner to cover, at least, the rehabilitation and maintenance
costs of such road network; and such plan to be based on the policies and
objectives set forth in MTC's document entitled "Documento de Politicas
sobre Recuperacion de Costos de la Inversion en Infraestructura Vial
(Construccion, Rehabilitacion y Mantenimiento), dated October 15, 1992 and
attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated October 22, 1992.
2.  Furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later than
December 31, 1995 the above referred plan.
3.  Implement the above referred plan taking into account the Bank's
comments and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Highway Maintenance Planning and Programming System
1.  Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a detailed
plan of actions (including a timetable therefor) to be taken by the
Borrower's Executive Branch  for a highway maintenance planning and
programming system, such action plan to include, inter alia: (a) the design
of a pavement management system and a bridge management system to prepare
appropriate network maintenance strategies, policies and programs and to
monitor the highway network maintenance conditions; and (b) measures to
implement vehicle axle road regulations.
2.  Furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later than
December 31, 1995 the above referred action plan.
3.  Implement the above referred action plan taking into account the Bank's
comments and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
4.  (a)   Prepare annual and pluriannual road expenditure and funding
programs for DGSVT in accordance with the policies and criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual.
    (b)   Not later than October 31 of each year, furnish such programs to
the Bank for comments.
Contracting out of Highway Maintenance
1.  Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a detailed
action plan (including a timetable therefor) to, inter alia: (a) contract
out maintenance operations; (b) strengthen the technical capabilities of
MTC/DGSVT state directorates and/or the State public works departments to
manage contracts and supervise works; and (c) strengthen MTC's program
monitoring systems.
Page  14
2.  Furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, not later than June
30, 1995 the above referred action plan.
3.  Implement the above referred action plan taking into account the Bank's
comments and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Environmental Management
1.  Adopt, not later than December 31, 1995, appropriate environmental
guidelines for highways and for the transport sector.
2.  Establish, not later than December 31, 1995, an environmental unitwithin DGSVT, 
duly and adequately staffed, to carry out environmental
assessments of the road programs.
3.  (a)   Assign to MTC's Oficina Ministerial de Planificacion, not later
than June 30, 1994, the functions of disseminating and monitoring the
implementation of the guidelines in paragraph 1 above in respect of the
transport sector; and (b) maintain thereafter the above functions in MTC's
Oficina Ministerial de Planificacion.
4.  The above actions in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be taken in accordance
with the provisions set forth in MTC's document entitled "Propuesta para la
Creacion de la Oficina de Gestion Ambiental en el Ministerio de Transporte"
Volumes 1 and 2 dated May 1992, as such document may be amended by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Technical Assistance and Training
1.  Contract, not later than June 30, 1995, and maintain thereafter,
consultants, in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, to assist in the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.
2.  Furnish to the Bank, for its approval, not later than October 31 of each
year, an annual program covering the training activities (including its
beneficiaries) proposed to be carried out during the then upcoming year and
to be financed under the Project.
Part B:   Investment Program
1.  Select the road segments to be included in DGSVT's annual rehabilitation
and resurfacing program (including the Subprojects) on the basis of: (a)
network maintenance strategy and pluriannual programs (periodically updated
and refined in consistency with the development of the pavement and bridge
management systems), satisfactory to the Bank; (b) funding expectations for
the given year; and (c) appropriate technical and economic criteria and
methodology set forth in the Operational Manual.
2.  Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs of each Subproject,
prepare and submit to the Bank a draft financing application (of such form
and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request) providing information on:
(a) the analysis and the rationale for the selection of the respective road
segment; (b) the road condition and traffic data; (c) the diagnostics of the
problems and the recommended engineering solution and its consistency with
the maintenance policy; (d) the estimated cost of works; (e) the result of
a preliminary economic evaluation; (f) the proposed implementation schedule,
all as specified in the Operational Manual; and (g) such other matters as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.  When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, furnish to the
Bank an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall: (a) update the information provided to the Bank pursuant to paragraph
2 above on the basis of the Bank's comments thereon, the final engineering
designs, final cost estimates and traffic projections; and (b) contain such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such
Subproject.
4.  (a)   Prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval, not later than
October 31 of each year, an annual program detailing the schedules for
procurement and execution of all proposed investments under Part B of the
Project for the then upcoming year.
Page  15
    (b)   Prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly reports (in such form and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request), not later than one month after
the end of each respective quarter, providing information on the progress
in implementation of the Project as measured against the targets set forth
in the table below, and the targets referred to in paragraph (c) below, and
indicating the status of compliance with the obligations under this
Agreement.
    (c)   Prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1996,
a set of indicators and yearly targets, satisfactory to the Bank, for
measuring the maintenance conditions of the highway network.
Project Procurement and Execution Targets
Program Item     Activity          Unit        1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Highway          Contracted        Km           788   379   656   640   290
Rehabilitation   Executed          Km           413   751   609   700   580
Highway          Contracted        Km           924  1247  1121  1021   474
Resurfacing      Executed          Km           249  1350  1145  1096   947
Bridge           Contracted        000 m2        95    70    70    70    35
Rehabilitation   Executed          000 m2        60    70    70    70    70
Pavement Marking Executed          Km     870   870   870   870   870
Routine          Patching          000 m3        50    50    40    30    30
Maintenance      Drainage          000Km         30    30    30    30    30
                 Bridges           000 m2       450   450   450   450   450
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)(i)         For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                   shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                   Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                   specify.
      (ii)         Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Page  16
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
                   other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                   Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                   Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
                   shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
                   under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
                   respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
                   justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  17
