                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 25746

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (CPL-35530; SCL-3553A; SCPD-3553S)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION

                              TO THE BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF

                                           VENEZUELA

                                             FOR A

                              HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                           June 17, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Managemetn Unit LCC6C
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2003)

                           Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs.)
                                    1,600 = US$ 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                              January     December

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANDES        -      Social Development Bank of Venezuela
                     (Banco de Desarollo Económico y Social de Venezuela)
CAF           -      Andean Development Corporation
                     (Corparación Andina de Fomento)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
DGSVT         -      General Roads Directorate
                     (Dirección General Sectorial de Vialidad Terrestre)
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
FONTUR        -      National Fund and Foundation for Urban Transport
                     (Fundación Fondo Nacional de Transporte Urbano)
FIDES         -      Inter-Governmental Decentralization Fund
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
IRR           -      Internal Rate of Return
MTC           -      Transport and Communications Ministry
                     (Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones)
MINFRA        -      Ministry of Infrastructure
                     (Ministerio de Infraestructura)
PAD           -      Project Appraisal Document
PCU           -      Project Coordating Unit
PDVSA         -      National Petroleum Company of Venezuela
                     (Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A.)
PIARC         -      World Road Association
SAMVIAL       -      Maintenance and Administration System
              -      (Sistema de Administración de Mantenimiento)
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SGCC          -      Road Maintenance Management System
                     (Sistema de Gerencia de Conservacion de Carreteras)
SGP           -      Pavement Management System
                     (Sistema de Gerencia de Pavimentos)
SGTP          -      Bridge and Tunnel Management System
                     (Sistema de Gerencia de Puentes)



                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
               Country Manager/Director:      Marcelo Guigale
                Sector Manager/Director:      Danny Leipziger
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge

                                        VENEZUELA
                          HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             41
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             51
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             53
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                54
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            55

Project ID: P008223                                                      Project Name: VE Highway Management
Team Leader: Jose Alonso-Biarge                                          TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: VE Highway Management                                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-35530; SCL-3553A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3553S
   Country/Department: VENEZUELA                                                          Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (92%); Central government administration
                            (8%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Decentralization (P); Other financial
                            and private sector development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/27/1991                                        Effective: 03/31/1993              02/03/1995
   Appraisal:    08/24/1992                                            MTR: 09/30/1995                01/26/1998
    Approval:    12/22/1992                                         Closing: 06/30/1998               12/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MTC(MIN.TSP/COMMUN)
                      Other Partners:      Inter-American Development Bank, Andean Development Corporation

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   Shahid Husein
Country Director:          Marcelo Giugale                                     Armeane Choksi
Sector Manager:            Danny Leipziger                                     Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:        Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge                            Jacques L. Cellier
ICR Primary Author(s): Albert Amos; Jose Alonso-Biarge


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objectives were to: (a) rehabilitate and maintain the national paved highway network;
(b) establish sustainable institutional mechanisms to ensure effective road maintenance in the future within
a framework of a decentralized road administration; (c) develop and implement policies and mechanisms
for adequate funding of road maintenance and efficient recovery of road costs; (d) encourage private sector
participation by contracting out road maintenance activities and transferring expressways to the private
sector; (e) strengthen road maintenance capabilities of the operational road administration units and policy
formulation, planning, and monitoring of the highways maintenance office of the Ministry of Transport and
Communication (MTC); and (f) develop and improve compliance with environmental standards in the
transport sector, particularly for highways.

At appraisal, sector institutions were in the process of being created at the state level, as part of the
Decentralization Act of 1989. This legislation gave state governments exclusive jurisdiction over primary
and secondary roads within their territory. The transfer of responsibilities regarding construction and
maintenance of local road networks were carried out progressively and would be contingent upon the
preparation of a coordinated investment plan based on appropriations from central and state governments.
However, no specific timetable or action plan were implemented in reference to the decentralization agenda.
State governments, rather than MTC, were also allowed to carry out road concessions, which has led to
some private sector participation at the state level.

At appraisal, the Government had just started to implement some elements of the Decentralization Act,
including the establishment of a specialized unit for agricultural feeder roads as well as selected local
committees with representatives from state governments to examine local road expenditure decisions. At the
time, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) stated that the Government still needed to more clearly define and
carry out a number of policy actions to support the implementation of the decentralization agenda. These
policy actions included: (i) classifying the national road network, including the state road networks to be
decentralized; (ii) preparing an action plan for decentralizing the management of state and interstate
highways, including functions transferred and those retained at the central level; (iii) developing consistent
road financing and funding policies and systems; (iv) developing the mechanisms for enforcing technical
norms and standards at the decentralized level; and (v) preparing a plan to assist the state governments in
building up technical and management capabilities to manage and maintain the transferred road networks.
Given the previous deterioration of the road network, the establishment of sustainable financing
mechanisms for road maintenance was cited as being especially critical. Although initial studies were
prepared and a proposal to create a Road Fund was tabled to Congress during project preparation, this
mechanism was eventually not approved. Key issues that prevented passage by the National Congress
included the ambitious scope of activities covered and the use of proceeds from a gasoline tax to finance
activities under the Road Fund. As a result, the general framework for the Road Fund needed to be
redesigned during project implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the objectives remained unchanged, project scope and activities were revised during
implementation. During project preparation and appraisal, the central government remained responsible for
managing highways and implementing sector investments. However, by the time the project became
effective more than three years later in 1995, the management of road sector activities had been
decentralized to the state governments. This included the transfer of partially completed high-volume, four
to six lane highways and the related costs of completing these crucial road links. Contrary to its original
intention, the government did not establish a road network for national interest in which the central



                                                     - 2 -

government would retain some management responsibilities, nor did it define a plan to share responsibilities
and resources with the states. Moreover, decentralization was carried out without the proper sector
institutions at the state level and without creating the adequate mechanism for allocating financial resources
to state governments. As a result, sector conditions deteriorated during the transition period, while
institutional responsibilities and financing arrangements were negotiated between the central and state
governments. While investment priorities increased, worsening macroeconomic conditions limited the
availability of government funds at the national and state levels. The institutional changes at the sector level
combined with limited political commitment by the central government contributed to the operation
becoming a "problem project." During the mid-term review, the decision was made to restructure the
project to better address the Borrower's needs. Since the project objectives listed in the SAR were
sufficiently broad, it was unnecessary to make formal revisions in this regard.

As part of the restructuring of the loan, greater emphasis was placed on assisting state governments in
managing road sector activities and increasing the number of states participating in the project. At the time,
only two states (out of a total of 23 states plus the capital district) were indirectly participating through the
MTC in the Bank operation. By project end, a total of seven states were directly responsible for managing
assigned project resources, implementing subprojects, and monitoring and supervising completed works.
Although the partial cancellation of the loan precluded the participation of additional states in the
Bank-financed project, 6 additional states were involved in similar lending programs financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Andean Development Corporation (CAF). The latter
committed funds after appraisal. Another impact resulting from the restructuring of the loan involved the
transfer of project execution responsibilities from MTC to FONTUR. FONTUR, an autonomous institute
associated with MTC (later MINFRA), was selected due to its previous experience in implementing the
Bank's Urban Transport Project (3657-VE). Moreover, FONTUR's legal status as a deconcentrated entity
within MINFRA permits it to establish a central-level fideicomiso to facilitate the channeling of funds to
the state fideicomisos.

Priority was also given to increasing the institutional and technical capacity of the state governments
participating in the project. After the transfer, state road programs were extremely weak, lacking dedicated
sources of funding and adequate technical and administrative staff. Although a mechanism for allocating
funds for road maintenance and the efficient recovery of road costs was designed, political and economic
conditions precluded its development and implementation during the project period. As a result, investment
programs for road transport were typically prepared by the central government and were funded (up to 90
percent of total expenditures) through annual budget allocations from the National Treasury. Financial
contributions by the states for feeder and local access routes within their jurisdictions were more significant
(roughly 30 percent), but feeder road programs were also decided by the central government.

Decentralization of road sector activities was further impacted by macroeconomic difficulties and
institutional rigidities, which limited and delayed the appropriation of central government funds to the
states. The initial decentralization framework also did not permit state governments to carry out new road
construction in their respective territories, which was retained as a central government function. This
restriction, which was amended by the December 1999 Constitution, effectively limited the ability of state
governments to make decisions regarding their respective roads networks. Notwithstanding these obstacles,
state governments supported by the project have been able to establish operational road entities and
effectively carry out road investment programs. However, administrative and technical capacity differs
among states, as some decentralized road entities are better poised to implement road programs and
conduct environmental reviews than others. The state governments also had to contend with unpredictable
budget allocations, which hampered the expenditure planning and implementation.




                                                       - 3 -

The partial cancellation of the loan and the restructuring of the project did, however, have a significant
impact on the achievement of project physical objectives. At appraisal, the initial design anticipated the
rehabilitation of 3,053 km and the resurfacing of an additional 4,787 km under the entire US$840.0 million
program financed by the Bank, the IDB, and the Government of Venezuela. The SAR did not differentiate
the precise number of kilometers that were the responsibility of each institution, but rather focused on
annual targets based on road width and surface conditions. The cancellation of US$40 million of the Bank
loan and the commensurate reduction in government counterpart funds during implementation resulted in a
proportional reduction in the physical targets of the joint program (2,762 km rehabilitation and 4,331 km
resurfacing). These revised physical targets are indicative, rather than being specific indicators linked to the
loan. The unused portion of the loan was canceled at project end.

Nevertheless, the underlying expectation was that the Bank financed program would cover, in general
terms, slightly more than a third of the entire road program, an amount that corresponds to the proportion
of Bank funds available for the revised VIAL III program. Based on these assumptions, it was estimated
ex-post that the Bank financed program was to have covered approximately 1,090 km of road rehabilitation
and 1,385 km of road resurfacing projects. However, it should also be noted that the methodology
underlying the physical targets cited at appraisal became inherently less relevant once subproject
implementation was transferred to the states and rehabilitation and emergency works took on greater
precedence. Because of the urgent need to address the deterioration of road pavements, resurfacing
activities had to be carried out in conjunction with the road rehabilitation and reconstruction works.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of three main components: a policy and institutional development program,
an investment program, and a maintenance program, which are described in the subsequent paragraphs.

(1) a policy and institutional development program (about 2% of planned project cost), including
technical assistance and staff training to:     (a) prepare and implement a program to decentralize the
maintenance of the road network and to help transfer management of expressways to private
concessionaires; (b) design and establish appropriate road cost-recovery and maintenance financing policies
and mechanisms; (c) develop and manage a highway management system to help DGSVT prepare and
monitor efficient highway/bridge rehabilitation and maintenance strategies, standards, and programs; (d)
formulate and implement a plan to contract out maintenance; (e) strengthen the technical capacities of
MTC, state directorates and state public works departments to manage and supervise maintenance
contracts; and (f) establish a capability in MTC to develop, implement, and monitor environmental
standards and guidelines for roads.

(2) an investment program (72% of planned project cost), consisting of the highest-priority highway and
bridge rehabilitation and resurfacing components of DGVST's 1993-97 program, including the
rehabilitation of about 3,053 km and the resurfacing of about 4,787 km of highways. These physical
targets were for the larger US$840 million program jointly financed by the Bank, the IDB, and the GoV.

(3) a maintenance program (26% of planned project cost), consisting of the routine and other periodic
maintenance works on the entire main road network, which would be fully funded with local resources.

3.4 Revised Components:
Due to changes in central government administrations and political uncertainty, the project did not become
effective until February 3, 1995, nearly 2 years after the planned effectiveness date. When the loan was
finally declared effective, the US$45 million first year program in the SAR had largely been completed
using local funds. An updated work program was prepared by the Government, and was reviewed and



                                                      - 4 -

approved by the Bank. Early on, the project was characterized by general implementation difficulties,
macroeconomic disturbances, limited allocation of counterpart and project funds, and low disbursements.
Additional factors that affected project implementation were related to: (i) limited state participation; (ii)
the abrupt manner in which the road network was decentralized; (iii) poor management by MTC; (iv)
delays in obtaining the external and counterpart funds, as a result of the Ley Paraguas, the Venezuelan law
that annually establishes the level of external funds assigned to each project under consideration; and, (v)
the general poor performance and slow disbursements of the entire Venezuela portfolio, which was
similarly impacted by poor governance, limited government commitment, and inadequate provision of
project funds. Furthermore, the MTC management had limited incentives to implement a project that was
initially designed for improving a road network under its responsibility, but had been transferred to the
states.

Around the mid-term review, the decision was made to restructure the project in order to support state road
programs and to cancel US$40.0 million of the loan. This shift was characterized by the active
participation of state governments in the execution of road subprojects upon formal entry into the national
road program. Previously, subprojects were carried out by the central government with minimal
participation by the states. At the same time, the role of MTC (later FONTUR) shifted from project
execution to monitoring, coordination, and supervision. To support these activities, planned project
resources for building institutional and technical capacity of MTC were also partially shifted to the state
road agencies, but were managed by the central government. As a result of the reduction in financing and
restructuring of project activities, the number of kilometers planned for rehabilitation and resurfacing
activities for the entire road program were effectively reduced. Adjusted amounts were roughly
commensurate to the amount of financing provided by each lending institution. Despite the lack of hard
physical targets, the amount of rehabilitation and resurfacing activities to be financed by the Bank project
were readjusted to 800 km and 1,254 km, respectively. During implementation, the Bank agreed to support
the reconstruction of critical, high-volume highway connections. These road segments had much higher
costs because of the number of lanes (4 to 6) involved in the major rehabilitation or reconstruction works.
In addition, it was also necessary to widen the institutional strengthening program to include the 7
participating states and to deepen this component to cover procurement, disbursement, and financial
management activities at the state level. The maintenance program remained unchanged. However, the
reduction in the total financing package for the sector precluded the entry of additional states into the
decentralization program.

As part of the project restructuring, project management duties were transferred from MTC to FONTUR in
1998. (MTC, at the time, was in the process of being reorganized into the Ministry of Infrastructure,
MINFRA). This change took place shortly after the project mid-term review, and was a consequence of its
conclusions. This shift in executing agencies initially caused further disruption until FONTUR could
absorb the PCU and integrate its activities within the institution. Additional time was also needed to
develop and improve internal auditing, monitoring, and supervision systems at state government level. An
arrangement was also made to involve the Inter-Governmental Decentralization Fund (FIDES) to manage
counterpart funds. Ultimate responsibility for the project, nevertheless rested with MINFRA.

During implementation, there were also two amendments to the Loan Agreement, 2 reallocations of project
funds among categories, and four closing date extensions. None of these extensions required RVP approval,
since they did not exceeded two years. An amendment to the Loan Agreement agreed on November 9, 1999
allowed the Sectoral Director of Public Finance to submit Bank disbursements requests. This amendment
was part of a general amendment for all Bank projects in Venezuela. The August 28, 2001 amendment to
the Loan Agreement, which also affected other ongoing lending operations in Venezuela, enabled FONTUR
to make direct payments to local and foreign contractors through the Economic and Social Development


                                                     - 5 -

Bank of Venezuela (Banco de Desarrollo Económico y Social de Venezuela, BANDES). In addition,
US$11.0 million of project funds were reallocated in early 2000 to finance emergency works in states that
experienced severe flooding during the previous year. To allow for the completion of these emergency
works, the project closing date was extended to December 31, 2001. Moreover, about US$4.82 million in
project funds originally allocated for technical assistance were redirected toward physical works in July
2002. Nevertheless, many technical assistance activities were financed with local funds. The loan was
extended on August 30, 2002 and again on December 30, 2002 to allow sufficient time to complete ongoing
works, which had been slowed due to difficulties in the allocation of project funds.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. The ICR finds the quality of entry to
be marginally satisfactory. The project is largely consistent with the 1993 CAS objective of supporting
policy reform and priority investments to stimulate economic growth and social development in the context
of macroeconomic stability. The CAS report also emphasized:              (i) efficient resource allocation; (ii)
increased efficiency in the public sector, and (iii) appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to
the poor. By supporting the decentralization of road rehabilitation and maintenance to state governments,
the project was consistent with efficiency-related objectives. Retrospectively, the SAR underestimated the
political and economic risks associated with decentralization as well as failed to anticipate the timing of
related reforms, which were implemented more abruptly than expected. In addition, the appraisal team
overestimated the readiness of the central government to classify the road network, define the roles and
responsibilities of the sector institutions, and establish sustainable financing mechanisms for decentralized
road management.

Under the initial design, participating state governments were relegated to having secondary roles regarding
the road works in their respective territories with a limited role in implementing project civil works. Along
these lines, the SAR expected that only 3 states would participate more fully under a pilot project. This
pilot project had been designed to gradually transfer expenditures and financing responsibilities, reassign
personnel, reallocate facilities and equipment, and strengthen state sector institutions. The pilot project was
in line with the viewpoint at appraisal, which assumed that decentralization would occur gradually, thereby
giving the states enough time to establish and strengthen their internal road entities and eventually
implement works in their territories. As a result, a comprehensive analysis of the fiscal and technical
resources of state governments was not conducted. Except for the first year of the program, the SAR did
not specify the road segments to be rehabilitated, nor did it provide a well designed work program and
schedule. The programs actually implemented were prepared by the MTC and the states during project
implementation, which were revised and approved by the Bank.

Moreover, initial project design and scope were ambitious given: (i) political conditions in Venezuela at
appraisal; (ii) budgetary mechanisms for allocating external funds at the central government level; and (iii)
the fact that this intervention was the first Bank project in the sector. In its original design, the lending
operation did not sufficiently support nor develop the appropriate mechanisms for accelerating
decentralization. During implementation, project design had to be realigned to support decentralization and
the constitutional changes of the later part of the 1990s.

However, the project objectives were sufficiently broad and flexible to allow the project to support the
decentralization agenda and provide technical assistance to the state road agencies. It should also be noted
that the SAR correctly identified a number of key project risks, which ended up having a significant impact
on project implementation, including ineffective management and the insufficient allocation of resources by
the government. The proposed mitigation mechanisms were neither well-designed nor effective. In
particular, the planned risk mitigation mechanisms overestimated the implementation capacity of MTC,



                                                      - 6 -

while underestimating the fiscal and administrative resources of implementing agencies at all levels.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of project objectives is rated satisfactory. A brief description of the progress achieved
in each of the three principal project objectives is summarized below.

(a)      Rehabilitate and Maintain National Paved Highway Network

The project directly supported road and bridge rehabilitation, reconstruction, new construction, drainage,
signaling, and repavement works in seven states. Due to many prior years of neglect as well as damages
caused by the 1999 floods, the scope of some works went well beyond the rehabilitation works anticipated
at appraisal. These included major reconstruction works along critical highway corridors, such as the
section La Raya-Alpargatón of the Central Occidental Highway in Carabobo and the sections
Guarenas-Casarapa of the Rómulo Betancourt Highway and Charallave-Ocumare in Miranda. The
completion of these 34 km of critical road links had languished for over 15 years. In addition, the project
financed emergency works to repair the damages caused by the 1999 flooding, including the reconstruction
of the El Guapo Bridge and the La Alpes Mirandinos Highway in the state of Miranda.

Overall, an estimated 1,313 km of roads were rehabilitated or reconstructed under the project, including
resurfacing works and capacity increases. This amount compares favorably to the 1,090 km anticipated
after the project was restructured, corresponding to 121 percent of the total amount. Moreover, the project
completed 61 out of a planned 66 road works subprojects (92 percent). The remainder will be completed
with local funds. Because of the deterioration of the road network put a larger priority on rehabilitation and
new construction, the planned resurfacing works could not be carried out in isolation from the rehabilitation
works, as had been anticipated at appraisal. The need to support the emergency works exacerbated this
situation.

(b)      Establish Sustainable Institutional Mechanisms to Ensure Effective Road Maintenance in the
Future within a Framework of a Decentralized Road Administration

The project had significant impact in supporting decentralization by strengthening the institutional and
technical capacity of state road agencies to manage and maintain their respective road networks using
project and local funding. With the restructuring of the project to support state level management of road
programs, a mechanism was created to transfer funds from the central government to the states. The
creation of this mechanism constitutes a fundamental element of decentralization, which had not been in
place at appraisal.

A number of state sector institutions were created in the early to mid 1990s. These entities were extremely
weak and very often lacked defined funding sources for road rehabilitation and maintenance activities. In
all, 13 states have formally participated in the VIAL III program, which includes 7 under the Bank project
and 6 under parallel IDB and CAF operations. It was agreed by MTC and the Bank that in order to
participate in the program, state governments had to undertake the following actions: (i) sign and ratify a
formal participation agreement; (ii) create a state road entity (INVIAL) with an executing agency (UCEP)
and a state environmental unit (UGA); (iii) prepare annual routine and preventative maintenance plans,
which are financed entirely by the state government; (iv) prepare investment plans for new construction and
road rehabilitation works; and (v) demonstrate that the state implementing agency had adequate
institutional capacity, technical staff, and local funding.



                                                       - 7 -

To increase managerial and administrative capacity, the project directly assisted the state road agencies in
the following areas: (i) carrying out Bank procurement and disbursement procedures; (ii) supervising
works; and (iii) undertaking environmental reviews. More importantly, extensive training was provided in
the HDM, a tool that permits the economic analysis of road investments (including maintenance activities)
and tracks costs related to road use and deterioration. These activities have supported the development of
managerial capacity within state road entities. Prior to the restructuring of the project, state road agencies,
as an aggregate, maintained about 1,600 km in 1997. By 2001, the last year that data was made available,
the seven state road agencies that participated in the project maintained about 11,000 km using local funds.


However, administrative and management capacity as well as the number of dedicated and qualified staff
varies significantly among the participating state governments. Earlier entrants and states with relatively
large programs financed by the project have demonstrated greater ability in overseeing and maintaining
their respective road networks. An important indicator is that some states are now able to independently
implement a road sector lending operation in the future. Sustainability, however, is an important issue with
some states considering severe cutbacks in the absence of another Bank operation in the sector.

(c)   Develop and Implement Policies and Mechanisms for Adequate Funding of Road Maintenance
and Efficient Recovery of Road Costs

The project had a substantial impact in assisting states in delineating potential sources of funding and
managing financial resources for carrying out road maintenance activities. This was achieved despite the
fact that states were just beginning to assume the management of road sector programs during project
implementation. As part of the decentralization agenda, state governments were given the ability to generate
revenues from user fees and tolls. In addition, the use of fideicomisos during the project facilitated and
improved the flow of funds between the central government and the state road entities. However, state
governments continue to depend largely on central government transfers to finance road sector activities.

An appropriate mechanism for allocating funding of road maintenance and efficient recovery of road costs
was designed but not implemented under the project due to political difficulties in enacting the normative
framework for a road fund. Although a study was carried out to establish the financing mechanisms,
technical standards, and institutional structure for a road fund, the second phase of the study was not
completed until mid-2002 and the study recommendations were not implemented by project end. Due to
prevailing political, economic, and social conditions in Venezuela, it is unlikely that these recommendations
will be implemented in the short-term. Nevertheless, draft bills to establish the road fund were prepared and
FONTUR has begun disseminating the contents of the study among the concerned institutions. For
sustainability to be fully achieved, the state governments must have the available financial resources to
regularly carry out preventative road maintenance and rehabilitation. While the failure in implementing the
fund has made sustainability more somewhat tenuous, the road fund is only one of many conditions
affecting sustainability, including political instability, potential policy reversals relating to decentralization,
and reductions in central and state budgets for road maintenance activities.

At the state level, funding for road maintenance activities has not been sufficient to meet existing needs.
While nearly all of the seven participating states have imposed tolls, the amount of revenues generated from
tolls have generally been insufficient to meet existing and future sector needs. The imposition of toll
revenues has been limited to a few short segments. Revenues generated from tolls have also been limited
due to weak enforcement and the availability of free alternative routes. In addition, toll rates remain low
with infrequent increases. For example, the average toll in one state along 4-lane highways was roughly 60


                                                        - 8 -

Bs. in 2001 (less than US$0.04/km) and has not been adjusted despite the depreciation of the national
currency. Toll increases are highly sensitive politically and are subject to intense review. At the national
level, revenues generated from gas taxes are typically assigned to a general fund that finances a number of
road and other sector priorities. Thus, sustainability would be strongly increased by the establishment of a
road sector fund, which relies on user fees to cover road maintenance and general administrative costs.

(d)      Encourage Private Sector Participation by Contracting out Road Maintenance Activities and
Transferring Expressways to the Private Sector

Routine maintenance activities have been contracted out in the participating states. The project has directly
supported the contracting out of maintenance activities to small and medium sized enterprises.
Furthermore, some states, notably Aragua and Yaracuy, have begun using microenterprises for routine
road maintenance. In Aragua, the state road agency, INVIAL, assisted this endeavor by financing road
maintenance equipment on behalf of the microenterprises.

In addition, significant private sector participation occurred during project implementation, which was
encouraged both by the project and by the larger multilateral road investment program. MTC (before the
transfer of project activities to FONTUR) developed a model concession framework that covered
regulatory reviews, supervision arrangements, evaluation criteria, and methodologies for private sector
participation. The MTC offered this model to the state governments and this framework has been used to
prepare a road concession program. This framework has been a critical step in attracting private sector
participation in the road sector not only at the central government level, but also within the states.

Unfortunately, the Caracas-La Guaira motorway, which was the first contract signed using this framework,
encountered numerous difficulties, leading to the eventual cancellation of the roughly US$100.0 million
concession contract and the resumption of government management of the road segment. In particular, the
private sector operator encountered popular and political opposition due to the imposition of tariff
increases. (At one point, the MTC also explored using Bank-funded technical assistance as well as
obtaining the Bank's Partial Risk guarantee). The central government continues to manage the motorway at
this writing. Nevertheless, this road segment has suffered from maintenance neglect. A new viaduct is also
needed as the existing one has been weakened due to geological problems and is in danger of serious
failure.

In terms of private sector activity carried out by the state governments, about 448 km are tolled under 4
separate contracts with private operators. The state of Barinas has entered into a concession contract to
oversee a 243 km road segment that reaches the state line with Portuguesa. Monagas has entered into two
separate 6-year concession contracts for maintaining 162 km. An additional private sector contract
covering 43 km is in place in Aragua. It is, nevertheless, too early to evaluate the impact of the private
sector participation in managing road segments at the state level. Notwithstanding, there still remains ample
scope for increasing private sector participation in the road sector.

(e)      Strengthen Road Maintenance Capabilities of the Operational Road Administration Units
and Policy Formulation, Planning, and Monitoring of MTC's Highways Maintenance Office

This objective has only been partially achieved. Training was provided to FONTUR as well as the
participating state governments in the use of the HDM-III, and more recently, HDM-IV, which are
important planning and evaluation tools in determining the economic cost-benefits of road maintenance
activities. Additional training was provided in the procurement of road works, financial management, and
disbursements. Both FONTUR as well as the participating state governments have demonstrated adequate


                                                      - 9 -

capacity in undertaking these activities.

An important element for improving the planning activities was linked to the development of a
comprehensive Management Information System (MIS) for road, bridge, and tunnel rehabilitation and
maintenance (Road Maintenance Management System, SGCC), which was tailored to the physical and
financial realities within Venezuela. The SGCC, which was financed by the loan, consists of four separate
components designed to improve road maintenance activities. These include:              (i) Maintenance and
Administration System (SAMVIAL) for routine road maintenance; (ii) a Pavement Management System
(SGP) for periodic maintenance and pavement resurfacing, rehabilitation and reconstruction; (ii) a Bridge
and Tunnel Management System (SGPT), for bridge and tunnel maintenance; and (iv) an interface system
that shares information among the 3 other components and generates reports, graphs, and tables.

Due to procurement and general implementation delays, work on the SGCC was not begun until late 2000.
Although the consultant contract was put to tender at the start of project implementation, protracted
negotiations between the government and the winning bidder delayed the start of the activities specified in
the contract. Once the project was restructured, it became necessary to revise the consultant contract, so
that the planned activities could be undertaken within a decentralized context. The four systems became
operational on a pilot basis in the states of Carabobo, Miranda and Aragua in late 2002 and representatives
from the three state governments were trained in its use. General problems that delayed the effectiveness of
the SGCC, including limited integration between the main system components and difficulties in generating
map-based reports, were largely corrected by project end. The SAMVIAL tracks operational data (e.g.,
traffic, structural conditions, and climatic characteristics, etc.) for individual roads can be used by state
governments to determine general budgetary needs for the road sector. The SGP tracks road deterioration,
generates indicators, and provides rehabilitation and maintenance strategies for carrying out repairs in a
cost-effective manner. However, state governments have been slow in providing data inputs, which has
limited the ability to make comparisons among state road programs. The SGPT is also operational, but its
effectiveness as a planning tool is also limited due to limited data. At present, only one state has provided
information regarding its bridges and tunnels.

(f)      Develop and Improve Compliance with Environmental Standards in the Transport Sector
Particularly for Highways

The main activities anticipated at appraisal relating to the environment management in the road sector
involved adopting appropriate guidelines, dissemination and monitoring of the implementation of these
guidelines, and establishing an adequately staffed environmental unit. Although the project experienced
some positive results in meeting these objectives, the environmental unit and enforcement capabilities need
to be further strengthened. An environmental manual was completed in 1996 and an environmental unit was
established within MTC early on. However, the unit had limited capacity. Prior to the transfer of project
execution to FONTUR, the environmental unit was eliminated due to budget cuts and the unit was not
reestablished until June 1999.

At the state level, the 13 states in the VIAL III program were required to establish environmental units as a
prerequisite for participating in the project. FONTUR supported these efforts in building capacity at the
state level by offering training in conducting environmental impact evaluations and yearly workshops to
improve monitoring and supervision. Carabobo and Miranda have proven to be particularly diligent in
carrying out environmental impact studies. Although most of the project works in the other states did not
meet the criteria for the preparation of an environmental impact studies, these assessments were carried out
by the state governments, as needed. Nevertheless, managerial and technical capacity varies dramatically
between the states and appears generally weak. Despite the increase in project activities, no environmental


                                                     - 10 -

impact studies were undertaken between 1997 and 1999 for works that did not involve new construction.

Despite preparation of an environmental manual, the remaining state implementing agencies have instead
relied on guidelines prepared by FONTUR that are based on Decree 1257 enacted in 1996 governing
environmental management at the national level. The Ministry of Environment is responsible for reviewing
and approving environmental impact studies and has established field offices in Venezuelan states to
support oversight and enforcement activities. As a result, the Ministry of Environment has been able to stop
works that did not meet national environmental guidelines. Monitoring and supervision is carried out by the
PCU, state road agencies and, the Ministry of the Environment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall implementation of the three project components is rated satisfactory. A brief description of the
progress achieved in each component is summarized below.

(a) Policy and Institutional Development Program

This component is rated as satisfactory. This rating reflects the positive impact of the technical assistance
programs in increasing the managerial and technical capacity of the states. Implementation delays in
carrying out the activities financed by the institutional strengthening component centered around the
difficulties in obtaining available counterpart funds. Of the original US$10.5 million assigned for this
category, US$3.5 million was canceled in the first restructuring and US$4.82 million was reassigned in
July 2002. As a result, the technical assistance program was largely completed using local funds. However,
the total amount provided for these activities has been substantially reduced in dollar terms by the
depreciation of the currency.

To achieve the greatest impact, most of the technical assistance funds were directed toward the
development of the SGCC and training for the state governments. A number of the institutional
strengthening activities were carried out using local counterpart funds, including the road fund study.
Several key activities, including the first phase of the road fund study and the road management systems,
were completed during the final two years of the project. The relatively late completion of the road fund
study did not allow for sufficient time to carry out its recommendations. Thus, improved cost-recovery
remains a critical issue, as states need to expand their respective revenue sources to ensure the timely
implementation of routine and preventative maintenance.

Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization. The states that participated in the project or in similar
projects financed by the IDB or CAF were able to significantly increase institutional capacity in the
procurement and management of road works, undertaking road maintenance activities, and general sector
planning. Progress was achieved despite changes in political administrations at the national level and the
related impact on the decentralization program. The 7 states that participated in the Bank project were
Aragua, Barinas, Carabobo, Mérida, Miranda, Monagas, and Yaracuy. With the exception of Miranda
which entered into the VIAL III program in 1999, these states joined the program by mid-1997. A number
of these states also participated in a similar program financed by the IDB and the CAF, following the
model established for the Bank program. State involvement in the program was based, in large part, on the
level of institutional capacity at the time of entry. Although several other states had expressed an interest in
participating in the Bank program, the cancellation of the US$40.0 million precluded the entry of additional
states into the project. An additional 6 states (Anzoátegui, Falcón, Guárico, Lara, Táchira, and Zulia)
carried out civil works financed under the parallel IDB/CAF projects. It should also be noted that the
project implementation unit under MTC (prior to the transfer to FONTUR) carried out a limited amount of
works on behalf of states that did not participate in the project.



                                                      - 11 -

Technical Assistance and Training Program. The participating state governments received training and
attended workshops in the following subject technical areas: (i) road maintenance; (ii) works supervision;
(iii) economic evaluation of road works using the HDM model; (iv) pavement technologies; (v) urban
transport; (vi) financial management; (vii) social impact assessment; and (viii) environmental standards
(ISO-14000), conducting environmental assessments, and valuing natural resources. Regarding training in
the HDM model, staff government officials attended seminars in Spain developed by the Bank and the
ATC, Spanish Committee of the World Association for Road Congress (PIARC) and sponsored by the
Road Directorate of the Spanish Government as well as training courses in Caracas conducted by sector
specialists from the Bank. In terms of project management and general administration, training courses
were provided in the procurement and disbursement procedures of each donor, accounting practices, road
sector planning and investment, and the development of project and state program budgets. Training was
also provided in written communication and computer skills.

Environmental Management. The project experienced a slow start in regard to environmental management
due to the limited technical capacity at the state and national levels at the start of the project, the
restructuring of MTC, and the transfer of project management duties to FONTUR. The PCU had two staff
members in its environmental unit during 1994-97. During this period, the environmental unit was
dissolved due to budget cuts. There was no staff in this capacity from 1997 until early 1999, when a
provisional unit was established. The environmental unit was formally reestablished in mid-1999. It should
be noted that each state has established an environmental unit, which has carried out subproject
environmental impact assessments required by the project, as needed. The states that were required to carry
out environmental assessments, demonstrated strong capacity in preparing these assessments.

(b) Rehabilitation of Primary Roads, Bridges, and Tunnels under the Investment Program

This component is rated as satisfactory. Project implementation began in February 1995, but was stalled as
a result of the following factors: (i) wrangling between the central and state governments over the
distribution of responsibilities and allocation of financial resources; (ii) delays in the allocation of external
funds through the Ley Paraguas; (iii) inadequate appropriation of counterpart funds to the executing
agencies; and (iv) delays in carrying out civil works. As a result, state participation in the program was
extremely limited with only 2 states involved in the program through 1996. The lack of state government
participation was also linked to project design, which envisioned road works to be implemented in the
states, but with the limited participation of state governments. The earliest set of agreements between the
central and state governments, did not adequately define the duties of the participating states, since the
framework for decentralized management and delivery of infrastructure services was still evolving at the
time. As a result, only a small amount of planned works were undertaken, and the operation was labeled as
a "problem project."

The early poor performance, limited participation of state governments, and overall external disbursement
limits at the time led to the cancellation of US$40.0 million in April 1998. At which point, the project was
restructured shortly after the mid-term review to provide greater support to the decentralization of road
sector activities to the state governments. This was undertaken without having to revise the project
objectives. Notwithstanding, the scope of the physical activities financed by the project and general targets
had to be adjusted to address existing conditions (Section 3.2). Under this new structure, the project
essentially became a road decentralization project. This change combined with the transfer of project
responsibilities to FONTUR in August 1998 helped to turn around project performance, especially in
regard to the physical activities financed by the intervention. Specifically, the IBRD (with the IDB later
following this initiative) decided to involve the most prepared states in terms of administrative and technical


                                                     - 12 -

capability, organizational and budgetary arrangements, and appropriate planning and monitoring
mechanisms. As a result, several states formally agreed to participate in the VIAL III program between
1997 to 1999, bringing the total to 13 (out of 23), including the 7 states that formed part of the Bank
program. Participating states signed modified agreements with MTC, which specifically defined executing
responsibilities, financing and expenditure arrangements, technical norms, supervision and technical
assistance arrangements, and a timetable for the transfer of personnel and assets. Road projects covered
under the project had to comprise part of the national road network, were required to demonstrate a rate of
return of at least 12 percent, and had to meet national environmental standards.

These changes helped to improve overall project performance, as the pace of implementation of civil works
increased significantly and the project ceased being a "problem project." Overall, the project supported the
reconstruction, and rehabilitation of an estimated 1,313 km. This includes about 100 km of road widening
works as well as emergency works to repair the damages caused by the 1999 floods. Four important
highway sections were also constructed/reconstructed under the project. These include: (i) the
Raya-Alpargatón Highway in Carabobo, a section of the Centro-Occidental Highway (19.5 km, 4-lanes);
(ii) the access to Puerto Cabello in Carabobo; (iii) the Guarenas-Casarapa Highway in Miranda, a section
of the Rómulo Betancourt Highway (5.5 km, 6-lanes), and (iv) the Charallave-Ocumare Highway in
Miranda (9.3 km, 4-lanes). The completion of the links along the Rómulo Betancourt Highway and the
Centro Occidental Highway represented the first physical connections along these highways in 15 years.
Roughly 75000 m2 of bridges were rehabilitated and/or maintained under the project. Additional works
included the rehabilitation of drainage, road signs and signals, and repavement works. The total km
rehabilitated and reconstructed under the project compares favorably (about 121 percent) to the revised
target of 1,090 km adjusted for the US$40.0 million cancellation of the loan and the part financed by the
IDB. Because of the pressing need to carry out the above works due to the limited available financing, road
resurfacing activities were carried out in conjunction with the road rehabilitation and reconstruction works,
rather than separately as originally anticipated. In terms of the road overall program, approximately 3,256
km have been reconstructed and rehabilitated out of 2,400 km (Sections 3.2 and 3.4), which includes the
IDB and CAF financed works.

The project completed 61 out of a planned 66 road works subprojects (92 percent). The remaining works
are to be completed with local funds. The scope of some these works increased during implementation and
there were delays in execution time that led to increased of costs in Bolivares. However, these cost
increases were largely compensated by the depreciation of the Bolivar during the project period. Table 1
provides an overview of the rehabilitation works completed by the participating states under the VIAL III
program. The central government also implemented works prior to project restructuring and also on behalf
of states that were unable to participate in the project after the partial cancellation of the loan. These
works typically involved the rehabilitation of bridges and road signals.




                                                     - 13 -

 State                               Estimated Km              Number of              Number of              Estimated Cost
                                     reconstructed/             Finished           Planned works                (US$M)
                                     rehabilitated                works
 Aragua                                    113                       7                     7                     25.5
 Barinas                                     27                      2                     2                      8.7
 Carabobo*                                 215                      15                     16                    75.4
 Mérida                                      71                      5                      5                    12.3
 Miranda*                                  188                       8                     11                     43
 Monagas                                   337                       9                      9                    23.9
 Yaracuy                                   134                       4                      5                     9.2
 National Govt.                            217                      11                     11                     9.9
 TOTAL                                    1313                      61                     66                    207.9
* Km amounts in Miranda and Carabobo include 4 and 6-lane highway construction, which have been adjusted to the
equivalent length of 2-lane highways


In late 1999, heavy rains and severe flooding caused tremendous loss of life and washed out roads in a
number of states along the northern coastal areas. To assist in the reconstruction effort, about US$11.0
million of the loan was redirected for emergency works, particularly in the states of Miranda, Carabobo,
and Yaracuy. In Miranda, the project supported the reconstruction of the Alpes-Mirandinos Highway, and
the El Guapo Bridge, which was destroyed by the floods. The construction of the Guarenas-Casarapa road
segment along the Rómulo Betancourt Highway has been largely unfinished, pending the completion of
complementary works. In Carabobo, the project supported the construction of La Raya-Alpargatón section
of the Centro-Occidental Highway, which includes an environmental component with eco-tourism and
sustainable agriculture developments. The project also financed civil works that significantly improved
road access to Puerto Cabello, the most important port in the country. Although the project also supported
the rehabilitation of the Yumare-El Hacha in Yaracuy, these works were not started within the project
period due to delays in the procurement process.

Although a number of project works were implemented in a timely manner, other works were delayed due
to flow of funds problems relating to the allocation of external and counterpart funds, macroeconomic
difficulties, and political uncertainty due to the coup d' etat in April 2002, the subsequent reinstatement of
the administration, and the general strike in late 2002. Flow of funds difficulties were linked to the Ley
Paraguas, which delayed the appropriation of project funds, sometimes relatively late into the fiscal year.
This had a negative chain reaction on civil works implementation, since there was usually a lag between the
approval of project funds and the transfer to the state road agencies. Additional delays stemmed from the
relatively cumbersome process for contractor payments, which flowed from FONTUR, MINFRA, the
Central Bank, the respective state government, and finally to the state road agencies. These legal and
administrative delays occasionally led to work stoppages. Toward the end of the project, these procedures
were streamlined somewhat with the establishment and use of fiduciaries.

(c) Provision of Routine and Periodic Maintenance

The implementation of this component is considered to be satisfactory. The project supported the
decentralization of maintenance activities, as state governments became responsible for undertaking routine
and preventative maintenance for all roads within their jurisdiction. Prior to the restructuring of the project,
state road agencies, as an aggregate, maintained about 1,600 km in 1997. In contrast, the seven
participating state road agencies maintained about 11,000 km in 2001, the last year that data was available.
This includes pavement resealing, maintaining drainage areas, road signs and signals, vegetation removal,



                                                               - 14 -

emergency maintenance activities, and bridge maintenance. More importantly, the project helped to
cultivate a maintenance culture within state government road agencies. To assist the states governments in
carrying out this activity, FONTUR developed general guidelines for preparing maintenance plans. Most
road maintenance activities are now undertaken by private contractors.

Although significant progress has been achieved in this regard, a continuation of this effort is necessary to
ensure the sustainability of road sector works. If anything, state road agencies would likely need to increase
maintenance activities, as only 45 percent of the road network under control of the state governments is in
either very good or good condition. This amount includes secondary roads, which were not included as part
of the project, and comprise the majority of the road network at the state level. The road fund, which was
designed, but not established during the project implementation period, would have supported these efforts
by creating a mechanism for carrying out road maintenance activities on an ongoing basis. However,
increasing maintenance activities and enacting the normative framework for a road fund may be difficult to
achieve given the current political and economic difficulties in Venezuela. The ongoing political and
economic difficulties appear to already have had a negative impact on road maintenance activities. Between
2000 to 2001, the total amount of kilometers maintained decreased by nearly 10 percent.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic evaluation in the SAR consisted of a network strategic analysis and the economic evaluation
of the first year program, which was prepared using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards
Model (HDM-III). The network strategic analysis evaluated 32,869 km of bituminous roads by 33
representative road classes, comprising many road sections, which were uniform in terms of traffic, road
conditions, surface type and number of lanes.

Based on the network analysis, a first year program was defined, which consisted of 19 road sections to be
rehabilitated (532 km), with a budget of US$45 million, and 19 road sections to be resurfaced (443 km),
with a budget of US$17 million. The economic evaluation of the first year program yielded a consolidated
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 53 percent; the range of values obtained for individual road segments
extended from 34 percent to 74 percent.

The ex-post economic evaluation of the project did not consider the road sections defined under the first
year program in the SAR. Due to the delays in implementing the project, these priority road sections were
rehabilitated or resurfaced with local financing and were removed from the project. The ex-post economic
evaluation was done using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-IV), adopting an
evaluation period of 20 years and a discount rate of 12 percent and considering only road works actually
financed under the project.

The ex-post study evaluated 27 projects, in which it was possible to collect reliable data, comprising 482
km, which required an investment of US$136 million, representing 38 percent of the total cost of project
civil works. The HDM-IV Model estimated the net benefits of each project in terms of reducing vehicle
operating costs, passenger time costs, and road maintenance expenditures that were carried out after the
execution of periodic maintenance or rehabilitation works. For the development works, the model estimated
the net benefits of reducing congestion by widening a road or building a bypass.

The overall result is that all projects were economically well justified, under the ex-ante or ex-post
scenarios, with all rates of return higher than 12 percent and on many cases higher than 30 percent. The
high project benefits encountered are due to the relatively high traffic, the reasonable investment costs, and
the deteriorated road conditions found before the project. For the 27 projects, the overall ex-post IRR is 59
percent corresponding to a total NPV of US$215 million and an overall NPV per Investment ratio of 1.59.



                                                     - 15 -

Details of this economic evaluation can be found in Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Given the low institutional capacity at all levels in the sector, this project has had a substantial impact on
institutional development despite the fewer financial resources allocated to this component originally being
anticipated. Upon inheriting the project from MTC, FONTUR demonstrated considerable progress in
building up internal capacity in administering, managing, and supervising the project. Although it started
with limited experience in implementing multilateral projects in the road sector, FONTUR has shown itself
to be highly capable of managing this project as well as future programs in the road sector. Just as
important, FONTUR was able also to support institutional strengthening activities at the state level.

Although originally designed as a road rehabilitation and maintenance project with institutional
development at the central government level, the project was restructured to focus on decentralization
objectives while expanding its physical objectives (Section 4.2b). The impact on state road agencies has
been tremendous, as these entities have built up internal managerial and administrative capacity and have
undertaken civil works projects within their respective territories. The number and size of road sector
projects has varied depending on need and resource availability with a few states having implemented ten or
more contracts (including IBRD and IDB loans). Maintenance programs have also been developed under
the project. However, sustainability may be impacted without the establishment of a road fund, or similar
financing mechanism, to finance road maintenance activities. Sustainability will also be impacted by the
extent that state governments continue to provide financial and political support for their respective road
agencies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Force Majeure Events. Political instability related to two coup attempts and a presidential impeachment
delayed loan signing and effectiveness for nearly two years. During this period, the Bank did not have an
active role in the decentralization process. Heavy rains and flooding that took place in late 1999 washed
away many roads in coastal states and created tremendous loss of life. As a result, some of the project
funds were redirected for emergency works, particularly in the states of Miranda, Carabobo, and Yaracuy.
In addition, political instability related to the events of April 11, 2002 paralyzed government activities and
froze the allocation of counterpart funds for several months. During the last months of the project,
implementation was severely affected by a general strike in Venezuela.

At the state level, additional implementation difficulties stemmed from the following factors: (i) delays in
appropriating project and counterpart funds to state governments; (ii) construction delays; (iii) limited
competition among contractors in some states; (iv) initial difficulties in understanding Bank procurement
procedures; and (v) delayed payments for supervision works. These difficulties were related in large part to
the relative inexperience of state road agencies in implementing multilateral projects as well as internal
confusion in dealing with differing donor procedures. As the state road agencies built up experience in
managing road subprojects, they overcame these difficulties by augmenting the quantity and capacity of
staff, streamlining administrative procedures, and increasing specialization by functional unit.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Limited Commitment to Bank Lending Programs. The general commitment of the central government in
relation to this project has generally been weak. Loan signing was delayed almost two years after Board



                                                       - 16 -

approval. Throughout implementation, the level of dialogue between the Bank and the GoV was at times
limited, preventing the resolution of key implementation difficulties and the stable flow of financial
resources to the project. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy cited that "the Bank Group's relationship
with Venezuela has been shallow over the past decade with the government's interest in Bank assistance
negatively correlated with oil revenues."

Macroeconomic Factors. There has been a severe deterioration of macro-economic conditions in Venezuela
during project implementation, including poor economic performance, high inflation, and the exchange rate
depreciation. During the last decade, real GDP averaged -1.2 percent per year and real non-oil GDP
decreased by -2.0 per annum. In addition, inadequate and inconsistent fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary
policies have not been able to neutralize the impact of external oil shocks on macroeconomic stability and
the economy. As a result of these policies, the steep depreciation of the Bolivar, especially in 1995-96 and
2001-2002, resulted in sharp decreases in the appropriation of government counterpart funds. The most
recent depreciation unexpectedly reduced total project disbursements and significantly increased the unused
portion of the loan, as project activities were largely denominated in Bolivars. By project end, there was
about US$23.6 million in cost savings caused by the recent depreciation. Because most of the US$26.7
million unused portion of the loan was comprised of cost savings, the remaining funds could not be
reallocated under a proposed extension.

Severe Flow of Funds Difficulties. The Ley Paraguas, which governs the appropriation of external funds,
was a critical bottleneck during project implementation. To varying degrees, the Ley Paraguas had a
similar impact on other Bank projects in Venezuela. Under the Ley Paraguas, project funds were approved
on an annual basis requiring ministerial and Congressional review and approval. This politically sensitive
process was typically lengthy and at times dragged on well into the fiscal year. Delays in allocating loan
funds to state road agencies often held up contractor payments, which occasionally led to work stoppages.
If project funds remained unused at the end of the year, these funds could not be automatically rolled over
during the next year, despite ongoing commitments. Furthermore, budget allocations were made each year
taking into account the amount of funds actually used during the previous year, which led to lower
allocations that negatively impacted project implementation. As a result, it became difficult to compensate
for earlier delays by increasing disbursements during the later years of the project. Moreover, planned
disbursements often exceeded annual amounts approved under the Ley Paraguas. This process also limited
continuity in planning, as works that were begun in a given year could be starved for funds during the
subsequent year. Once the funds were finally approved, additional flow of fund difficulties existed in
passing along these resources to the state road entities. These difficulties were reduced through the use of
fideicomisos established to transfer funds from the central government to the states through the FIDES (
Fondo Intergubernamental para el Desarrollo, Intergovernmental Development Fund), which was created
to return to the regional and local governments some of the funds raised through the value added tax to
finance investments. Furthermore, to speed up disbursements, the Bank supervision team lowered limits for
direct payments of civil works from US$900,000 to US$300,000.

Dramatic changes in the macroeconomic environment often led to large decreases, in real terms, in external
funds for the project, as approved amounts were not sufficiently adjusted to inflation. The Ley Paraguas
fixed annual ceilings, which could not be modified once approved. In the event of a severe currency
devaluation, the amount appropriated was effectively reduced in real terms. Although the GoV has
considered modifying the Ley Paraguas to allow for multi-year budgets within external lending operations,
limited progress is likely to be achieved given the current political uncertainties.




                                                    - 17 -

Major Institutional Changes during Implementation. The reorganization of MTC, the transfer of project
management duties responsibilities to FONTUR, and the decentralization of road sector activities to state
governments created additional implementation delays. FONTUR and the state governments needed time to
establish and build up institutional, managerial, and administrative capacity to manage the project.
Moreover, state governments also needed time to go up the learning curve regarding Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures. FONTUR and the state governments also needed to establish and strengthen
monitoring mechanisms for tendered works. These activities were aided by technical assistance provided by
the project.

Limited Implementation Experience. Throughout project implementation, the central government did not do
enough to address a number of institutional deficiencies relating to limited implementation, but often,
perpetuated this situation. At appraisal, the GoV had limited experience in implementing IBRD projects, as
the project constituted the first Bank lending operation in the road sector. The implementing agency at
appraisal, MTC, faced a steep learning curve regarding the Bank's procurement and disbursement
procedures. Even though MTC had gained some experience under the VIAL II program funded by the IDB,
much of this capacity was lost as a result of the restructuring of MTC. For its part, FONTUR, once it took
over the management of the project, was able to significantly build up its own institutional capacity and
that of the participating states. Nevertheless, the PCU continued to lack experienced technical and
professional staff. The addition of qualified individuals occurred gradually and was directly linked to
available budgetary resources, whose allocation was often delayed and relatively insufficient given sector
needs. It also took time to develop an internal culture for road maintenance as well as developing
monitoring and supervision oversight at both the central government and state levels. While FONTUR and
the state road agencies have generally improved their ability to carry out monitoring and supervision, the
effectiveness of these activities tends to vary somewhat, at state level.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ineffective Management and Political Interference. The project implementation was impacted by ineffective
management at the outset. The shift of project implementation agency from MTC to FONTUR brought
about a critical change in management style, governance capacity, and a stronger commitment to the
project, all of which progressed steadily during implementation. Even with the transfer, the management
team still had to overcome a steep learning curve, delays and insufficient counterpart and external project
funds, and complex administrative procedures for obtaining these funds.

Delays in Compiling Financial Information. Implementation was impacted by inadequate capacity in the
tracking, compiling and consolidating of financial data, especially for all states participating in the VIAL
III, and to a lesser extent, in FONTUR. Accounting reconciliation was initially undertaken by a project
engineer with limited training and almost no formal accounting experience. Annual project audits were
often delayed with some audit reports taking more than a year to complete. Over time, the PCU was able to
attract qualified staff in the compilation of accounting data. However, the project agency was continuously
trying to catch-up in later years and often had to restate previous years statements due to erroneous data.
At project end, the collection and review of financial data continued to be carried out under a highly labor
intensive manner that has created further reporting delays and has increased the susceptibility to errors.
Internal systems were neither integrated nor automated, especially for works expenditure data. Internal
estimates place data reliability at around 80 percent with some omissions and inconsistencies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original US$150.0 million project was part of an US$840.0 million program for road rehabilitation
and maintenance, jointly financed by the Bank, the GoV, and the IDB. With the cancellation of the



                                                     - 18 -

US$40.0 million of the Bank loan in April 1998, the total size of the VIAL III program was reduced to
US$760 million. At appraisal, the GoV planned to provide US$490.0 million in counterpart funds, which
was later reduced to US$450.0 million as a result of the partial cancellation of the Bank loan. During
implementation, the government entered into an agreement with the CAF for a US$70.0 million loan, which
was intended to assist it in financing its counterpart portion.

At project end, the total cost of the Bank project was roughly US$211.7 million. Of which, the Bank loan
accounted for an estimated US$83.3 million. The project financed road rehabilitation and reconstruction
works as well as technical assistance programs in 7 states--Aragua, Barinas, Carabobo, Mérida, Miranda,
Monagas, and Yaracuy. Civil works accounted for roughly 97 percent of total project cost. Project works
included construction, rehabilitation, capacity increases, highway resurfacing, and supervision and
engineering contracts. Remaining project funds, about US$3.0 million, were allocated toward technical
assistance activities. Nevertheless, the amount allocated for technical assistance was substantially lower
than anticipated due to revised estimates regarding the cost of consultant services, the higher than expected
reliance on local consultants, and macroeconomic conditions. A total of US$26.7 million remained unused
at project end with a significant percentage of this amount relating to cost savings due to the depreciation of
the Bolivar. The total unused portion of the loan was cancelled and the project account closed on May 20,
2003. For its part, the GoV provided about US$128.4 million in counterpart funds. The lower than
expected amount of counterpart funds is attributed to the macroeconomic and fiscal difficulties in
Venezuela as well as the depreciation of the national currency, which reduced the total level of central
government contributions in relative terms.

Finally, the IDB loan financed road subprojects in a total of 12 states. This includes six states covered by
the Bank loan (Aragua, Barinas, Carabobo, Mérida, Monagas, and Yaracuy) and six states not covered by
the Bank loan (Anzoátegui, Falcón, Guárico, Lara, Táchira and Zulia). Within the road larger program,
civil works comprised 98 percent of the estimated US$290.8 million road program.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Due to prevailing political and economic conditions in Venezuela at project end, sustainability remains
uncertain. On one hand, the impact that the project has had in assisting states in carrying out road
rehabilitation and maintenance works, developing commitment of the state governments in managing road
sector activities, and building institutional capacity and technical expertise at the state level provide support
for sustainability. Sector institutions, particularly at the state level have assumed a high level of ownership
over road networks in their territories and have competently administered civil works projects financed by
the project. However, the present uncertainty in Venezuela, which is described in greater detail in the
subsequent paragraphs, makes it difficult to predict project sustainability in the medium term. If forced to
chose among the possible ratings, then it may be necessary to use the more conservative unlikely rating to
characterize project sustainability.

Thus, sustainability will require that the political uncertainty which started in 2002 does not resurface and
that the current political difficulties are peacefully resolved. In particular, it is estimated that the national
strike between December 2002 and April 2003 has caused an additional two percent decrease to the
accumulated six percent reduction in GDP during 2002. It is also likely that the strike may cause major
shortfalls in national and state government revenues during 2003, seriously impairing highway investment
budgets. Therefore, a regular and timely allocation of financial resources to road sector institutions will be
necessary. This goal is in line with the decentralization objective of providing the necessary funds to state
governments, so that they can continue to manage their respective road networks in the medium-term. The



                                                       - 19 -

provision of regular road maintenance activities may be especially difficult in this current environment. The
establishment of a road fund, which was designed under the project but not implemented due to prevailing
political conditions, would have created a more stable financing mechanism for road maintenance works.
Nevertheless, the road fund is only one of many conditions affecting sustainability and less critical than the
ones mentioned above.

Project sustainability is also predicated on the continuation of the on-going decentralization agenda, which
is far from settled under the current policy environment. Furthermore, previous difficulties in allocating
funds to the states as well as recent actions, such as threats to take over certain local police and security
functions and the decision to take greater control of certain oil distribution activities, suggest the possibility
of a policy reversal. (The ongoing participation of the IDB in the sector through its parallel project
potentially mitigates this risk, somewhat.) A reversal would jeopardize the progress achieved so far at the
state level in building internal capacity and in implementing responsive road programs; it would also shift
road management responsibilities back to the central government, which would then have to rebuild their
own capacity for after having shed these functions.

Finally, the consolidation of institutional gains at the national and local levels achieved under the project
faces an additional challenge in the absence of continued Bank support in the road sector. An extension of
the project might have helped in consolidating and expanding the institutional strengthening program in
participating and new states, respectively, further strengthening the decentralization process supported by
the project, and adding strategic road investments in participating states, keeping the Bank involved in the
sectoral dialogue until a strategy to secure long-term sustainability could be firmed up, once the political
uncertainty has been resolved. Nevertheless, the IDB is expected to continue to be active in the sector
through 2004. Due to the issue of cost savings caused by the depreciation of the national currency (Section
5.2), the Bank opted to neither approve the requested fifth extension in late 2002. Nor did the Bank commit
to a possible follow on operation in the sector for several reasons, including the current political
uncertainty, the difficult macroeconomic environment (which calls for a relatively small Bank portfolio in
Venezuela), and the longevity of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project implementing agency will likely be folded into FONTUR or MINFRA with most of the staff
transferring to the successor agency. Sustainability varies dramatically among the participating states, as
some state governments appear to have relatively more financial resources as well as technical
administrative capacity in relation to others.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in regard to lending is rated as marginally satisfactory. The overall project framework
was flexible enough to support decentralization and the provision of technical assistance to the state road
entities without necessitating a formal revision to the project objectives. This was found to be very positive
when the project was restructured. However, project design, as part of a US$840.0 million road sector
program, was too ambitious in its size and scope (e.g., decentralization, private sector participation,
highway management, creation of a road fund etc.) given the circumstances in the Venezuela of the early
1990s and the fact that this was the first Bank operation in the sector. Although specific project activities
were appropriate given sector needs in Venezuela at appraisal, the project lacked a concrete and detailed
implementation framework and work schedule for the road rehabilitation component, the largest investment
component of the project. The SAR listed road works by corridor rather than by number of kilometers or
the segments to be rehabilitated. The lack of specificity provided the PCU with limited guidance regarding


                                                     - 20 -

the specific projects to be developed, the prioritization of works, and implementation timing. This situation
was corrected during implementation with the preparation of road programs by the government and the
states that were reviewed and approved by the Bank.

More seriously, the impact of decentralization was not fully anticipated at appraisal, especially regarding
financial management issues. It should be noted that there was little evidence at the time that the
Government would later shift the timing as well as carry out a more aggressive approach regarding
decentralization. Another important weakness in project design was the lack of detailed road sector
program for the states not included under the initial "pilot" program. Given that the timing of the
decentralization program was not yet established and a number of critical decentralization related activities
had not been undertaken by the central government, state governments had very limited participation and
ownership in the design of the sector lending program. This includes the inability to develop the framework
for an appropriate financing mechanism for sustainable road maintenance. Moreover, the SAR failed to
provide adequate direction to an implementation agency that lacked experience in executing Bank projects
in the road sector. During project preparation, the state governments also had limited input as to which
rehabilitation and construction projects were to be undertaken in their territories, but were asked to commit
in principle, regardless.

7.2 Supervision:
Despite numerous implementation delays at the start of the project, Bank supervision is considered to be
highly satisfactory. It should be noted that the Bank supervision team was instrumental in helping sector
institutions and state governments navigate through the difficult policy changes and the abrupt
implementation of the decentralization strategy. Continuity in supervision, (the task manager remained the
same during the entire implementation period), was critical in guiding the project during the
decentralization process and overcoming early implementation difficulties. In particular, the supervision
team demonstrated the ability to balance conflicting priorities within the country and was able to encourage
the GoV to restart and restructure the project, thereby avoiding possible cancellation. Moreover, the
supervision team took an active role in the mid-course project restructuring, which placed greater emphasis
on achieving the decentralized management of road sector activities.

The Bank team also proposed and supported the transfer of project responsibilities from MTC to
FONTUR, which allowed implementation to be undertaken by an agency that was more committed in
achieving project objectives. In addition, the Bank (and the IDB) served as an intermediary between the line
ministry and the state governments to assist in channeling sufficient funds from the program to the states.
To speed up disbursements, the Bank supervision team lowered disbursement limits for direct payment of
civil works from US$900,000 to US$300,000. This change improved the flow of funds to the states as well
as the implementation of medium and small-sized subprojects carried out by the state governments. The
incorporation of the fideicomisos have also helped to reduce flow of fund difficulties. These actions helped
to relieve some of the bottlenecks that effectively blocked project implementation time and again. Intensive
Bank supervision was also instrumental in developing the technical, administrative, and managerial
capacity of FONTUR and the participating states, so that the central government could carry out the
transfer of sector activities to the state road agencies.

Bank supervision was extremely responsive and flexible in adapting the lending program to carry out
emergency works due to flood and weather damage. Moreover, project supervision was able to adjust
quickly to the change in implementing agencies as well as modify the lending program to address local
conditions and necessities. Nevertheless, project implementation would have been aided by the redrafting of
the project manual to better reflect the change in emphasis toward achieving decentralization objectives.




                                                      - 21 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In general, Bank performance is considered to be satisfactory as the lending program was designed to meet
the extensive needs in the sector, despite not fully incorporating the decentralization agenda at the outset.
Project supervision took an active role in the restructuring of the project, helping to jump start the
intervention after it had been delayed for several years. Specifically, the Bank supervision team overcame
critical administrative bottlenecks, supported the transfer of project implementation duties to FONTUR,
and placed greater emphasis on decentralization and the concomitant institutional development of the
participating states. Bank supervision was also highly responsive in meeting emergency needs in the sector
caused by the 1999 floods.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. Project risks were underestimated and
internal administrative capacity was overestimated. Moreover, the Borrower did not ensure that there was
sufficient buy-in from the state governments who were asked to commit without a defined work program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory. There were extensive difficulties in
providing counterpart funds and allocating project funds as a result of the Ley Paraguas. There was also a
generally weak central commitment, especially during the first four to five years of project implementation.
In addition, there were a number of critical delays that limited the design and preparation of the framework
for the road maintenance fund, which precluded political consideration of the road fund during the
implementation period.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Both the PCU unit within FONTUR as well as the implementing agencies within the participating states are
rated as satisfactory. The commitment of the state governments to the road program remained strong
throughout the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In general, borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, considering the performance of the participating
states.

8. Lessons Learned

The Pace and Sequencing of Decentralization should be Commensurate with the Capacity of Sector
Institutions at the Central and Local Government Levels

In Venezuela, political decentralization took place without fully considering the potential impact of
decentralizing road management to the states. In this manner, the sequencing of road sector decentralization
diverges with international best practice of first creating the appropriate institutions and the corresponding
financing mechanisms at the central level and then setting up the local entities to carry out administrative,
technical, and operational activities for road management. Contrary to its original intention, the government
did not establish a road network for national interest in which the central government would retain some
management responsibilities, nor did it define a plan to share responsibilities and resources with the states.
The central government should have also retained greater control over coordination and planning for the
national road network to ensure adequate integration and continuity of activities among the states.

Although human resources were transferred from the center, this was not always welcomed by the states,
since it involved mostly senior staff close to retirement age with their respective pension liabilities. The



                                                     - 22 -

transfer of equipment was also disadvantageous to the states given the need for major repairs and high
maintenance costs. These actions limited and delayed the development of institutional and technical
capacity within state level institutions. While the central government kept its role in developing regulation
and technical standards for the entire road network, it failed to properly enforce these technical norms at the
decentralized level. Based on these experiences, it would have, therefore, been preferable to have
maintained planning activities under the purview of the central government, while strengthening regulatory
enforcement.

The lack of a well designed strategy and a suitable time frame for decentralization may have undermined
the objectives behind this approach. Because decentralization was carried out without the proper sector
institutions, there was a great deal of political infighting due to the unclear division of responsibilities
between central and state governments and the allocation of financial resources. In turn, sector conditions
deteriorated somewhat, while institutional roles were being determined. Once political decentralization took
place, the central government should have provided adequate financial support to the states, until alternate
and sustainable sources of financing could be developed. Based on this experience, future initiatives that
support decentralization in the road sector in Venezuela should emphasize the following: (i) support for
central government institutions to strengthen planning and regulatory enforcement; (ii) additional assistance
to state governments, so that administrative, technical, and managerial capacity is maintained and
augmented; (iii) development of a sustainable sector financing mechanisms in the road sector; and (iv)
expansion of the road program to include states not covered by the VIAL III program.

The Appropriate Sector Financing Mechanisms Need to be in Place Prior to Political Decentralization


Decentralization was carried out without the establishment of appropriate financing mechanisms for road
maintenance activities. A road fund was designed under the project, but was not approved by the National
Congress by project end. As a result, the lack of sustainable sector financing mechanisms has placed severe
limits on resource availability, constraining the ability of state governments to manage and maintain their
respective road networks. The lack of sustainable financing mechanisms has made decentralization more
vulnerable to potential policy reversals, especially during periods of political and economic instability. At
the same time, state governments remain heavily dependent on funds provided from the central government,
even though overall transfers have fallen short relative to the newly assigned responsibilities of the states.
Even with the recently conferred ability to impose fees and charges on road users, tolling has occurred in
only a few states and tolls have typically been low in real terms. From a cost standpoint, the states had to
deal with initial start-up costs as well as the transfer of outstanding pension and maintenance liabilities
from the central government. As a result, the financial position of the state governments in managing road
sector activities has been extremely weak from the start.

Venezuelan states receive appropriations for road sector activities from the national gasoline tax;
nevertheless, this amount has decreased dramatically in recent years, especially in light of the current
political and macroeconomic difficulties. The percentage of funds from this revenue source dedicated to the
road sector dropped from 75 to 36 percent from 1999 to 2001, respectively. FIDES also allocates annual
appropriations to the states based on the physical characteristics of the road network and population. The
use of fideicomisos has proven to be an important mechanism for resolving flow of fund difficulties, which
can be adopted for future projects in Venezuela. Although some states now generate additional financial
resources from state managed toll roads, these funding sources have proven to be largely inadequate and
maintenance activities in some states have suffered.

In retrospect, alternative financial mechanisms should have been carefully studied in advance to assess their



                                                     - 23 -

potential political and institutional feasibility. If the states had been able to develop predictable revenues
from taxes or road user fees, then the cost recovery picture for road maintenance and administrative
activities would likely be better. In this manner, the original project objective of establishing a road fund for
road maintenance and administrative activities continues to be extremely relevant.

Project Design Needs to be Appropriate for Political, Institutional, and Legal Realities

Project design was not appropriate given the limited experience of the GoV in implementing Bank projects
in the sector as well as a number of uncertainties regarding the decentralization agenda at the time of
appraisal. Moreover, project scope and size (a US$150 million operation as part of a US$840.0 million
program) exceeded the absorptive capacities of the Borrower, leading to the cancellation of US$40.0
million of the original loan amount. In the early stages of the project, state governments were effectively
marginalized in favor of a relatively centralized approach for implementing road rehabilitation and
maintenance activities. This strategy precluded state governments from claiming ownership of road sector
activities in their respective territories financed by the project and effectively limited wider expansion of the
road program. The lack of state government participation was a critical factor in early implementation
delays. When the project was modified to provide greater support to decentralization, the project
components had to be revised to reflect the transfer of implementation responsibilities. This revision
brought about a closer alignment to decentralization objectives and was also forward looking in building
sector institutions at the state level. However, the cancellation of US$40.0 million precluded additional
states from benefiting from the project. It also should be noted that although a project manual had been
developed, an updated version could have been developed in conjunction with the participating states and
FONTUR to better assist in the transition.

From an implementation perspective, the original project design did not properly anticipate the impact of
the appropriation mechanism governed by the Ley Paraguas. Despite having anticipated general project
delays, the extent that this legal framework would prove to be a bottleneck was unforeseen. Future lending
in Venezuela should take into account allocation mechanisms for external funding, so that these potential
roadblocks can be avoided.

It should also be noted that the ongoing CAF loan has provided counterpart funds for a portion of the IDB
loan. This has facilitated the subsequent approval of project funds under the Ley Paraguas ensuring that
there would be a suitable flow of funds from the start of implementation. Future Bank projects in
Venezuela, not just in the road sector, should attempt to establish a similar mechanism during the project
preparation to mitigate the risk of encountering flow of fund difficulties. The establishment of this
mechanism could potentially serve as an effectiveness condition.

Develop Adequate Capacity and Improve Coordination in Implementing Simultaneous Institutional
Strengthening Programs at the National and State Levels

As a result of the decentralized transfer of road sector activities, the role of the implementing agency was
transformed from execution to coordination and institutional strengthening of state road entities. This
transition was largely achieved during project implementation. During the initial stages of project
execution, it became evident that the implementing agency lacked sufficient administrative and managerial
capacity even though it was still obligated to provide technical assistance to state governments, which had
even less expertise and fewer financial resources. This situation became exacerbated during the slow
project execution in the first few years of the project and immediately after the transfer of implementation
duties to FONTUR. The PCU had limited experience with Bank projects and faced a huge learning curve in
regard to Bank procurement, and disbursement procedures, compiling project financial data, installing


                                                       - 24 -

commensurate accounting systems, and in environmental management. Through the Bank-financed project,
technical assistance activities were implemented, which assisted the PCU and the state-level PCUs in
building up its internal resources as well as designing capacity building programs for the states. These TA
initiatives have been well-managed and have had a significant impact at the state level, as all of the
participating states have successfully administered their respective own road programs.

Nevertheless, the development of improved knowledge management and sharing mechanisms could have
been developed and institutionalized to address this problem. The project should have developed a stronger
coordination mechanism between the states, which could have helped to: (i) identify critical issues earlier;
(ii) provide uniform solutions across states; and (iii) disseminate best practices. A coordinating body would
have also helped in the implementation of road works that crossed stated borders and in developing joint
maintenance arrangements. Although the supervision team proposed for the development of this entity, its
establishment was slowed due to administrative and bureaucratic delays at the central government level.




                                                     - 25 -

Maintaining Continuity in Bank Supervision

Throughout most of the project implementation period, the composition of the Bank supervision team
remained relatively unchanged, with the same task manager during the entire life of the project, from
signing to closing, despite a number of reorganizations within the Bank. Maintaining continuity was an
important factor in enabling the Bank to build relationships with the Borrower over the long-term. This
allowed for the comprehensive identification of Borrower needs as well as the resolution of implementation
difficulties. In particular, maintaining a stable presence in Venezuela for road sector activities allowed the
Bank to serve as an intermediary between the line ministry and the states to ensure that sufficient funds
were channeled to state road programs. Continuity in supervision also supported the decentralization
program, leading to the active participation of the seven state governments and the identification of project
activities carried out by the states road entities. Stability during supervision was also instrumental in
designing and implementing technical assistance activities to strengthen institutional capacity at the national
and state levels. Maintaining continuity permitted the Bank to properly identify and prepare a fast response
to damage caused by the 1999 floods. Finally, this can also serve to develop the dialogue for a possible
follow-on project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                    REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA
                FUNDACION FONDO NACIONAL DE TRANSPORTE URBANO "FONTUR"
                              ADSCRITA AL MINISTERIO DE INFRAESTRUCTURA
         PROGRAMA DE GESTION Y CONSERVACIÓN DE LA RED VIAL PRINCIPAL (VIAL III)
                                              PRESTAMO BIRF Nº 3553-VE

                             INFORME DE CIERRE DE LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL
                             PROYECTO DE ADMINISTRACION DE CARRETERAS

                                                          MAYO, 2003.

           Av. Los Jabillos entre Av. Libertador y Calle Las Flores, Edif. FONTUR, Sabana Grande, Caracas - Venezuela
                 Telf. (0212) 761.1826 - 761.8557 - 761.73.20. FONTUR@Telcel.net.ve / www. FONTUR.gov.ve


A.       DATOS DEL PROYECTO



 FECHA DEL            NOMBRE DEL                                             SECTOR /          NUMERO DEL
  INFORME               PROYECTO                    PAIS                    SUBSECTOR            PRESTAMO            REGION

 ABRIL 01,       ADMINISTRACIÓN                VENEZUELA CARRETERAS Y                          CPL:       35530 Latino America
 2003.           DE CARRETERAS                                    AUTOPISTAS (92%).            SCL:      3553A y el Caribe
                                                                  ADMINISTRACIÓN               SCPD: 3553S
                                                                  CENTRAL
                                                                  GUBERNAMENTAL(8%)


PRESTATARIO:                                       República de Venezuela.

AGENCIA DE IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO: Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones
(MTC) / Fundación Fondo Nacional de Transporte Urbano (FONTUR).




                                                                - 26 -

OTROS SOCIOS: Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y Corporación Andina de Fomento.

B:       CLASIFICACION PRINCIPAL DE LA ACTUACIÓN

AS=Altamente satisfactoria, S=Satisfactoria, I=Insatisfactoria, AI=Altamente Insatisfactoria, AP
=Altamente probable, P=Probable, IM=Improbable, AIM=Altamente improbable, ALT=Alta, SU
=Substancial, MO=Modesta, INS=Insignificante.

RESULTADO:                                                        SATISFACTORIO
SUSTENTABILIDAD:                                                  PROBABLE
IMPACTO DEL DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL:                                     SUBSTANCIAL
ACTUACIÓN DEL BANCO:                                              SATISFACTORIA
ACTUACIÓN DEL PRESTATARIO:                                        SATISFACTORIA

C.       EVALUACIÓN DEL DISEÑO Y DESARROLLO DE LOS OBJETIVOS.
- OBJETIVOS ORIGINALES DEL PROYECTO: Los principales objetivos del Proyecto fueron: (a)
rehabilitar y mantener la red nacional de autopistas pavimentadas; (b) establecer mecanismos
institucionales sostenibles, incluyendo la descentralización por fases, para asegurar un mantenimiento
adecuado y permanente de dicha red; (c) desarrollar y establecer políticas y mecanismos para una
recuperación de costos eficiente        y un financiamiento adecuado para el mantenimiento vial; (d)
promover la participación del sector privado en el sector transporte contratando actividades de
mantenimiento rutinario y la transferencia de las autopistas a concesionarios privados; (e) fortalecer las
unidades operacionales de la administración vial del Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones (MTC)
y los Estados, y las capacidades de formulación de políticas, planificación e inspección del Ministerio de
Transporte y Comunicaciones; y (f) desarrollar y mejorar el cumplimiento de las normas ambientales en
el sector transporte, particularmente para carreteras.

En la etapa de evaluación del Proyecto, el MTC comenzaba a realizar ante los gobiernos estadales, las
gestiones tendentes a la firma de los convenios de transferencia de las competencias para la
conservación, administración y aprovechamiento de las carreteras, puentes y autopistas ubicados en
territorio de los estados,     en el marco de la Ley Orgánica de Descentralización, Delimitación y
Transferencia de Competencias del Poder Público, aprobada en el año 1989 por el Gobierno Nacional
para regular el proceso de descentralización emprendido. Esta transferencia dispuso la creación en
dichas entidades, de las instituciones responsables de velar por la ejecución de los planes estadales
anuales de mantenimiento rutinario y preventivo especificados en la correspondiente cláusula de los
citados Convenios. De igual manera, este instrumento legal permitió a los estados contratar con
particulares la concesión de vías, estableciéndose en el documento normas que estipulan la realización
por parte de la empresa concesionaria, de las actividades de mantenimiento rutinario y preventivo de las
vías objeto de      la   concesión, cumpliéndose en        cierta  medida el objetivo de promover la
participación del sector privado en el sector de transporte y vialidad. Esta figura permanece en la
mayoría de los estados, aunque otros adoptaron la modalidad de la administración directa, colocando
estaciones de peaje en las vías principales y asumiendo con los fondos obtenidos del cobro a los
usuarios,   el  mantenimiento de las mismas con personal propio de los institutos, o a través de
microempresas contratadas para tal fin, contribuyendo de esta manera a la generación de empleo en el
estado y a la continuidad de la actividad de mantenimiento rutinario y preventivo, puesto que el mismo
usuario exige que las vías por las cuales transita y paga por ello, estén en buen estado y brinden
seguridad.

La situación política y económica del país, así como la transitoriedad de las autoridades del MTC y
demás organismos involucrados en el Programa, lo cual se tradujo en el poco apoyo institucional al
mismo, que dio como resultado el traspaso del Programa por parte del MTC a FONTUR, impidió durante
el desarrollo del proyecto, la implementación del estudio del Sistema de Gerencia del Mantenimiento de
Carreteras, el Mecanismo de alcance nacional para el Mantenimiento Rutinario y Preventivo y el de
Viabilidad Técnica, Económica y Legal del Mecanismo de Recuperación de Costos.




                                                   - 27 -

En tal sentido, la programación inicial de inversiones preparada por el MTC, que incluía las obras
ubicadas en todo el territorio nacional, y las posteriores elaboradas por los estados coejecutores del
Programa, dependió casi en su totalidad de las asignaciones presupuestarias anuales provenientes del
Tesoro Nacional. Esta situación repercutió en la programación de las obras, tanto del nivel central como
del estadal, debiendo adaptarse dichos planes a la disponibilidad de recursos asegurados para cada año.
Dada la condición general de la vialidad nacional existente durante los primeros años de la ejecución,
producto de los insuficientes aportes de fondos a los gastos de conservación de la misma, la acción
emprendida en el marco del Programa se enfocó en mayor escala hacia el rescate de la infraestructura
vial mediante la rehabilitación y el mantenimiento mayor de la red y en la atención, en casos bien
puntuales, de las emergencias suscitadas en varias regiones del país, con motivo de las lluvias que
ocasionaron graves daños en la ya maltratada vialidad. Cabe destacar que en la ejecución de todas las
obras se consideró la normativa relativa al aspecto ambiental, para prevenir y/o mitigar los impactos
negativos que pudieran afectar el medio ambiente.

El proceso de descentralización trasladó el objetivo del fortalecimiento de las capacidades de
formulación de políticas, planificación e inspección del Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones, a los
institutos de vialidad creados a nivel regional. A través del préstamo se brindó tanto al MTC
inicialmente, como a los institutos de vialidad, asistencia técnica y entrenamiento relativo a las
actividades de procura, gestión financiera, gestión ambiental, etc. Una herramienta importante para la
planificación y evaluación en la determinación de los costos-beneficios económicos del mantenimiento
de vías se brindó a nivel central y estadal, a través del uso del Programa HDM III y IV.

- OBJETIVOS REVISADOS DEL PROYECTO: El Banco aprobó en el mes de Abril del año 1997, la
cancelación parcial de 40 millones de dólares        y   la reestructuración  del proyecto. A pesar de
este hecho, sus objetivos permanecieron sin cambios. Una acción de la reestructuración consistió en el
énfasis dado a la incorporación de las Gobernaciones de Estado para acceder a los recursos del
Préstamo. En tal sentido, se firmaron a partir del año 1996, Convenios de Coejecución con seis (06)
estados: Aragua, Barinas, Carabobo, Mérida, Monagas y Yaracuy; incorporándose en el año 1999 el
Estado Miranda. La cancelación parcial del Préstamo impidió la participación de otros estados      en el
financiamiento del Banco, sin embargo, seis (06) estados adicionales participaron en el Programa,
contando con el financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y la Corporación Andina de
Fomento.

- COMPONENTES ORIGINALES DEL PROYECTO: El Proyecto comprendió las siguientes partes:
Parte A: Programa de Desarrollo Institucional y de Políticas: (Representando el 2 % del costo total
del Proyecto). 1. Un Programa que consistió en (a) el diseño e implementación de un plan para
descentralizar el mantenimiento de la red vial y transferir la administración de autopistas a
concesionarios    privados; (b) el diseño y la implementación de políticas y mecanismos apropiados
para la recuperación de costos y        financiamiento    para   el   mantenimiento;  (c) el   diseño  e
implementación de un sistema de administración de carreteras; (d) el diseño e implementación de un
plan para contratar las operaciones de mantenimiento; (e) el diseño e implementación de un plan para
fortalecer las capacidades técnicas del Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones y las Direcciones de
Obras Públicas de los Estados elegibles; y (f) el diseño e implementación de un plan para desarrollar,
implementar y evaluar estándares y normas ambientales para carreteras. 2. Proveer asistencia técnica y
entrenamiento para asistir en la implementación del programa establecido anteriormente en la Parte A.1.
Dicha asistencia técnica debía ser proporcionada al Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones y a los
Estados elegibles. Parte B: Programa de Inversión: (Representando el 72% del costo del Proyecto).
Un programa que consistía en la ejecución de Subproyectos y que comprendía: (a) la rehabilitación de
aproximadamente 3.000 kilómetros de carretera incluyendo la ampliación de aproximadamente 100
kilómetros de carretera;    el   mantenimiento     mayor    de    aproximadamente    4.800 kilómetros de
carretera, (b) la rehabilitación o reparación de puentes de un área de superficie de tablero de
aproximadamente 500.000 metros cuadrados,           (c)   la  rehabilitación de   secciones  de   túneles
totalizando aproximadamente 8.000 metros de longitud; (d) la señalización, incluyendo la demarcación
del pavimento y la señalización vertical, en aproximadamente 4.000 kilómetros de carretera; y (e) los
diseños de ingeniería y la supervisión relacionadas con las obras civiles mencionadas anteriormente.



                                                    - 28 -

Parte C: Programa de Mantenimiento Rutinario:          (Representando el 26% del costo del Proyecto).
Un programa de operaciones de mantenimiento                rutinario  que involucraba aproximadamente
30.000 kilómetros de carreteras pavimentadas incluyendo autopistas; dicho programa incluía: (a) el
bacheo de huecos y sellado de grietas con una cantidad aproximada de 200.000 metros cúbicos de
materiales en toda la red de carreteras; (b) la limpieza de sistemas de drenaje y el control de la
vegetación en toda la red de carreteras; (c) el mantenimiento de aproximadamente 2.200.000 metros
cuadrados de puentes; (d) el mantenimiento de la señalización vertical y horizontal de toda la red de
carretera y (e) trabajos adicionales de emergencia.

- COMPONENTES REVISADOS DEL PROYECTO: Debido a factores de índole político, jurídico y
fiscal, la firma del Convenio de Préstamo se realizó en Noviembre de 1994, recibiendo del Banco la
declaración de efectividad en Febrero de 1995. El retraso en aproximadamente 2 años a partir de la
fecha de aprobación por parte del Banco, trajo como consecuencia que algunas vías incluidas en la
programación inicial presentada para la evaluación del proyecto se realizaron con recursos locales. A los
citados factores se le adicionaron otros de índole institucional, que continuaron durante los primeros
cinco años de la implementación del Proyecto lo cual trajo como consecuencia un bajo nivel de
desembolsos.

Esta situación originó en el mes de abril de 1997, posterior a la Misión de Medio Término del Programa,
la cancelación parcial por parte del Banco de 40 millones de dólares del Préstamo, realizándose a su
vez la reestructuración del proyecto y la redistribución de los montos asignados originalmente a las
distintas categorías de inversión que lo componen.           Esta reestructuración significó una mayor
participación de los estados en el Programa Vial III, con la potestad de cada entidad regional en la
programación de sus inversiones en atención a las prioridades de cada región; acción ésta que antes de
la descentralización la realizaba el gobierno central, privando quizás otros criterios para la selección de
las vías. De igual manera, dentro de la reestructuración se transfirió el Programa Vial III del MTC -el
cual estaba en proceso de reorganización como Ministerio de Infraestructura (MINFRA)- a FONTUR,
institución adscrita al Ministerio. FONTUR fue seleccionado debido a su experiencia previa en la
implementación del Programa Nacional de Transporte Urbano, financiado parcialmente por el Banco
Mundial, Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y la Corporación Andina de Fomento. El cambio en las
agencias ejecutoras iniciales del Programa, requirió un tiempo de ajuste hasta que FONTUR pudo
absorber la Unidad Ejecutora del Programa e integrar sus actividades dentro de la institución, con las
modificaciones legales a sus estatutos que esta absorción implicaba. A pesar de los retrasos posteriores
a la reestructuración del proyecto, la ejecución del mismo experimentó un ascenso considerable en el
nivel de desembolsos, hecho reconocido por el Banco, debido a las gestiones realizadas por FONTUR
para     involucrar al Fondo Intergubernamental para la Descentralización (FIDES),              organismo
dependiente del Ministerio del Interior y Justicia, cuyo objetivo es el financiamiento de proyectos
presentados por los gobiernos regionales, y lograr la agilización del desembolso de dichos recursos a ser
utilizados como contrapartida local para las obras del Programa.

Durante la implementación del proyecto, hubo también dos enmiendas al Convenio de Préstamo, dos
redistribuciones de los montos entre las categorías y cuatro fechas de prórroga de cierre. A fin de
atender los trabajos de las emergencias que se produjeron en el país por las inundaciones ocurridas a
finales del año 1999, fueron reasignados 11 millones de los fondos del préstamo y en consecuencia fue
extendida la fecha de cierre hasta el 31 de Diciembre de 2001. En Julio del año 2002, fue aprobada por
el Banco una ultima reasignación de los fondos del proyecto originalmente asignados a la categoría de
asistencia técnica hacia la de obras civiles. En consecuencia, la fecha de cierre del préstamo fue
extendida hasta agosto de 2002 y luego hasta Diciembre del 2002, para permitir la finalización de las
obras en ejecución, las cuales habían sido retrasados debido a las dificultades en la asignación de los
fondos del proyecto.

D.       LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y RENDIMIENTOS: En conjunto, el logro de los objetivos del
Proyecto es considerado como satisfactorio. A continuación se resume el progreso alcanzado en cada
uno de los objetivos principales del Proyecto. a) Rehabilitar y mantener la red nacional de autopistas
pavimentadas. Durante la implementación del proyecto, más de 900 Km. (de los 3.053 Km. estimados



                                                  - 29 -

en la evaluación, o cerca del 30%) fueron rehabilitados en siete estados. El subproyecto de obras
incluyó la rehabilitación de carreteras y puentes; nuevas construcciones; reconstrucciones; trabajos de
emergencia para reparar los daños causados por inundaciones; drenajes, señalización y
repavimentación. En total, el proyecto completó 61 de las 66 obras planificadas en el subproyecto
(representando un 92%), pero el alcance de algunas obras se dirigió mas bien hacia la rehabilitación.
Estas incluyeron la construcción de obras a lo largo de corredores viales en autopistas en condición
crítica y la culminación de otras que fueron desatendidas por varios años, tales como el tramo La
Raya-Alpargatón      de   la  Autopista    Centro   Occidental    en   el   Estado    Carabobo;     el  tramo
Guarenas-Casarapa de la Autopista Rómulo Betancourt y la Charallave-Ocumare, ambas en el Estado
Miranda. b) Establecer mecanismos institucionales sostenibles para asegurar un mantenimiento
adecuado y permanente de dicha red en el marco de la administración descentralizada de las
carreteras.      El Programa permitió el fortalecimiento de la capacidad técnica e institucional de los
Institutos de Vialidad Estadales para gerenciar y mantener sus respectivas red de carreteras. A través
del proyecto se prestó asistencia directa a los estados en lo relativo al conocimiento e implementación
de los procedimientos del Banco para las áreas operacionales del Programa tales como, licitaciones y
desembolso; supervisión de obras; revisiones ambientales y la más importante relacionada con el
desarrollo de la capacidad de planificación de        las inversiones del sector, con la      utilización  del
programa HDM, el cual permite         el análisis económico de las vías incluyendo las actividades de
mantenimiento y los costos relacionados con el uso y deterioro de las carreteras. En la totalidad de los
estados participantes en el programa, de los 1.600 Km. de carreteras mantenidos en 1997, se llegó a
11.000 Km. en el año 2001. Cabe destacar sin embargo, que se evidenció una diferencia entre los
estados participantes con relación a la importancia que se dio a la conformación y conservación del
equipo de personal suficiente en cantidad y calificado técnicamente, dedicado exclusivamente a la
gestión regional del programa. Esta diferencia se evidenció en la disposición que tuvieron los estados
para el aprovechamiento de la oportunidad que se brindó con el préstamo, de contar con los fondos que
les permitirían realizar obras de infraestructura, adquirir bienes y contratar servicios relacionados con los
objetivos del programa. Esta disposición se materializó entre otros aspectos, en la               tenencia de
proyectos de ingeniería de las obras prioritarias para la región debidamente actualizados, así como en la
agilización observada en la tramitación de los recursos correspondientes a la contrapartida local
necesarios para las contrataciones respectivas. c) El diseño y la implementación de políticas y
mecanismos apropiados para la recuperación de costos y                        financiamiento        para   el
mantenimiento. Bajo el proyecto se diseñó un mecanismo apropiado para la asignación del
financiamiento del mantenimiento de las carreteras y la recuperación eficiente de los costos, con la
finalidad de establecer mecanismos de financiamiento, estándares técnicos y una estructura institucional
para los fondos destinados a la vialidad. Las recomendaciones del estudio no fueron implementadas
para el final del proyecto, ya que la segunda fase del mismo no se completó sino hasta mediados del
año 2002. Debido a las condiciones políticas, económicas y sociales prevalecientes en el país, es
improbable que estas recomendaciones se implanten a corto plazo. A nivel de los estados participantes
en el programa, el financiamiento de las actividades de mantenimiento de carreteras no han sido
suficientes para atender las necesidades existentes. La totalidad de los estados participantes instalaron
estaciones de peajes en algunos segmentos cortos de vías en sus regiones. Sin embargo, la
recaudación de recursos generados por dichos instrumentos han sido insuficientes para resolver las
necesidades existentes y futuras del sector, debido en gran parte al precio de las tarifas, el cual por
motivos políticos no ha podido ser ajustado con la frecuencia que se requiere, a pesar de la severa
depreciación que ha sufrido el bolívar. A nivel nacional la recaudación generada de los impuestos por la
gasolina, han sido asignados a un fondo general que financia un numero de las prioridades del sector.
La sustentabilidad puede ser fuertemente incrementada por el establecimiento de un fondo del sector
vial el cual puede depender de las cuotas de los usuarios para cubrir el mantenimiento vial y los costos
administrativos generales. (d) Promover la participación del           sector    privado     en    el  sector
transporte contratando actividades de               mantenimiento rutinario y la transferencia de las
autopistas a concesionarios privados. Durante la implementación del proyecto, hubo una significativa
participación del sector privado, fomentado a través del Programa Vial III, financiado además del Banco
Mundial, por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, la Corporación Andina de Fomento y la República
de Venezuela. A nivel nacional, el MTC como ente rector del sector, desarrolló un modelo marco de
concesión que abarcó las revisiones reglamentarias, los arreglos de supervisión, criterios de evaluación



                                                    - 30 -

y metodologías para la participación del sector privado. Dicho modelo se ofreció a las gobernaciones de
estado y este marco ha sido utilizado para preparar el programa de concesiones viales. La concesión de
la Autopista Caracas ­ La Guaira fue el primer contrato firmado bajo este marco, pero fue cancelado
posteriormente debido a la oposición política y de la comunidad a la imposición de incrementar las
tarifas. Sin embargo, la pérdida del apoyo del sector privado fue compensada por el financiamiento
parcial del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, reasignando 50 millones de dólares del préstamo para
el Programa Vial III a objeto de apoyar esta iniciativa. En las gobernaciones de estado, la actividad
llevada a cabo por el sector privado se concretó en la operación de peajes instalados en segmentos de
vías ubicadas en sus regiones, en cuyos contratos se contempla la realización del mantenimiento
rutinario y preventivo de la vía concesionada. Las actividades de mantenimiento han permitido la
contratación de pequeñas y medianas empresas, contribuyendo de esta manera, a la generación de
empleo en las regiones. (e) Fortalecer las unidades operacionales de la administración vial del
Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones (MTC) y los Estados, y las capacidades de
formulación de políticas, planificación e inspección del Ministerio de Transporte y
Comunicaciones. A través del proyecto se prestó asistencia directa, en principio a las Direcciones
Regionales del MTC          y luego a los estados participantes, en lo relativo al conocimiento e
implementación de los procedimientos del Banco para las áreas operacionales del Programa tales como,
licitaciones y desembolso; supervisión de obras; revisiones ambientales y la más importante relacionada
con el desarrollo de la capacidad de planificación de las inversiones del sector, con la utilización del
programa HDM en sus versiones III y IV, el cual permite el análisis económico de las vías incluyendo
las actividades de mantenimiento y los costos relacionados con el uso y deterioro de las carreteras.
También fue diseñado el Sistema de Gerencia de Mantenimiento de Carreteras adaptado a las
condiciones físicas y financieras del país, a los fines del mejoramiento de las actividades de
planificación vinculado al desarrollo de la comprensión del sistema de gerencia de información para la
rehabilitación y el mantenimiento de carreteras, puentes y túneles. Esta herramienta contiene los datos
de funcionamiento de las vías, por ejemplo, condiciones estructurales, promedio de tráfico y
características climáticas para vías individuales y puede ser utilizada por las gobernaciones de estado
para determinar necesidades presupuestarias generales para el sector vial. Además, el sistema
monitorea el deterioro de las vías, genera indicadores y provee estrategias de rehabilitación y
mantenimiento para llevar a cabo las acciones respectivas bajo el esquema de costo-operación. Sin
embargo, debido a retrasos en el proceso de contratación de la firma consultora y la implementación en
general, el trabajo no fue comenzado hasta finales del año 2000 y se hizo operativo en el 2002 y se fijó
como piloto en los estados Aragua, Carabobo y Miranda, entrenándose al personal en el uso del
sistema. Detalles posteriores a la operación del sistema han ido corrigiéndose sobre la marcha, pero su
efectividad se ha limitado por la demora de los estados participantes para proporcionar los datos de
entrada, lo cual obstaculiza la habilidad de hacer comparaciones entre los programas de carreteras de
los estados. (f) Desarrollar y mejorar el cumplimiento de las normas ambientales en el sector
transporte, particularmente para carreteras. Durante la implementación del programa, a pesar de las
dificultades financieras e institucionales, todos los proyectos de ingeniería ejecutados siguieron los
lineamientos establecidos en el Manual de Operaciones del Programa con relación al aspecto ambiental.
A tal efecto, la Unidad Coordinadora del Programa a cargo del MTC en principio y posteriormente de
FONTUR, ofreció entrenamiento en la conducción de estudios de impacto ambiental y talleres de trabajo
para mejorar el monitoreo y la supervisión de las actividades relacionadas con este aspecto. De igual
manera, se preparó un Manual que contiene la Normas de Impacto Ambiental para Carreteras, el cual
fue distribuido a los estados coejecutores y las oficinas regionales del MTC. Durante la dirección de
FONTUR, con la incorporación de obras de construcción en el marco del programa, se establecieron
directrices basadas en el Decreto             Nº 1.257 promulgado en el año 1996, dictando la gestión
ambiental a nivel nacional. FONTUR y las gobernaciones de estado deben someter ante el Ministerio del
Ambiente los estudios de impacto ambiental de las obras de construcción a realizarse, para la revisión y
aprobación. En tal sentido, el monitoreo y la supervisión son llevados a cabo por FONTUR, los institutos
de vialidad y el Ministerio del Ambiente.

- RENDIMIENTO POR COMPONENTES. En conjunto, la implementación de los tres componentes del
proyecto se considera satisfactoria. A continuación se resume una breve descripción del progreso
alcanzado en cada componente. A: Programa de Desarrollo Institucional y de Políticas: El proyecto



                                                  - 31 -

permitió retomar la conciencia de la cultura del mantenimiento que había sido dejada de lado por los
cambios políticos y económicos ocurridos en el país, traduciéndose en el manejo más eficiente de los
recursos asignados al sector. En lo concerniente a la dirección del proyecto se prestó asistencia técnica
directa, tanto a las direcciones regionales del MTC en principio, como a los estados participantes, en lo
relativo al conocimiento e implementación de los procedimientos del Banco para las áreas operacionales
del Programa tales como, licitaciones y desembolso; supervisión de obras; revisiones ambientales y la
más importante relacionada con el desarrollo de la capacidad de planificación de las inversiones del
sector, con la utilización del programa HDM en sus versiones III y IV, el cual permite el análisis
económico de las vías incluyendo las actividades de mantenimiento y los costos relacionados con el uso
y deterioro de las carreteras. Este apoyo a la descentralización se ha cristalizado en obras ejecutadas
bajo normas de ingeniería aceptadas internacionalmente, teniendo especial énfasis en la consideración
del aspecto medio-ambiental relacionado a las mismas. Igualmente bajo el proyecto directamente y con
los recursos generados por los intereses de los fideicomisos, se adquirieron bienes destinados a
fortalecer las capacidades técnicas de la Unidad Coordinadora del Programa, el MTC y los estados
participantes, tales como equipos de computación, vehículos para labores de inspección y supervisión y
equipos especializados para el Laboratorio Nacional de Vialidad, ente adscrito al MTC, entre otros. B:
Programa de Inversión en la rehabilitación de vías principales, puentes y túneles: Pese a los
inconvenientes de índole político, económico e institucional mencionados anteriormente que trajo como
resultado la cancelación parcial de 40 millones del monto aprobado del préstamo, el cumplimiento de los
objetivos contenidos en este componente se considera satisfactorio. Luego de esta cancelación parcial,
que dio un vuelco a la programación estimada para el programa, de las obras 66 planeadas fueron
ejecutadas 61, representando un 92%. Cabe destacar que pese a que muchas obras fueron ejecutadas a
tiempo, muchas de ellas sufrieron retrasos en su terminación, con el consiguiente incremento en sus
costos, los cuales fueron compensados por la depreciación del bolívar durante el período de la
implementación del Programa. El proyecto permitió además la culminación de importantes obras que
estaban inconclusas, así como la atención con la resignación de 11 millones de dólares del préstamo, de
obras de emergencia presentadas en varios estados del país, como consecuencia de las fuertes lluvias e
inundaciones ocurridas a finales del año 1999. C: Programa de Mantenimiento Rutinario: Con la
transferencia a las regiones de las actividades de mantenimiento en el marco de la descentralización,
se incrementó el numero de kilómetros mantenidos de 1.600 Km. en 1997 a 11.000 Km. al año 2001,
fecha de disponibilidad de la información. También se fomentó la participación del sector privado en
estas actividades y la generación de empleo con la contratación de pequeñas y medianas empresas
para realizar estas labores.

- VALOR PRESENTE NETO/ TASA ECONÓMICA DE RETORNO: La evaluación económica del
Informe de Evaluación consistió en el análisis estratégico y la evaluación económica de la red para el
primer año del programa, el cual fue preparado utilizando el modelo HDM-III (Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model). El análisis estratégico de la red evaluada fue de 32.869 Km. de vías
bituminosas para una representación de 33 clases de vías, comprendiendo muchas secciones de
carreteras que eran uniformes en términos de tráfico, condiciones de las vías, superficie y número de
carriles. Basado en el análisis de la red, fue definido el programa para el primer año. El cual consistió de
19 secciones de vías a ser rehabilitadas (532 Km.), con un presupuesto de 45 millones de dólares (U.S.
$ 45,00) y 19 secciones de vías a ser repavimentadas (443 Km.) con un presupuesto de 17 millones de
dólares(U.S. $ 17,00). La evaluación económica del primer año del programa produjo una Tasa Interna
de Retorno consolidada de 53%; obteniéndose para segmentos individuales de vías, unos valores que
van de 34 a 74 por ciento. La evaluación económica ex post del proyecto no consideró las vías definidas
para el primer año del programa en el Informe de Evaluación, ya que debido a los retrasos en la
implementación del proyecto, muchas de estas obras se ejecutaron con recursos locales, siendo
sacadas del programa. Para la evaluación económica ex post del proyecto se utilizó el modelo HDM-IV,
adoptando un período de 20 años y una tasa de descuento de 12%, considerando actualmente solo
obras financiadas bajo el proyecto, definidas años después que el Informe de Evaluación fue producido.
El estudio ex post evaluó 27 proyectos, en los cuales era posible recolectar datos confiables,
comprendiendo 482 Km., los cuales requirieron una inversión de 136 millones de dólares (U.S. $
136,00), representando un 62 por ciento de los costos de obras civiles del proyecto. El modelo HDM IV
estimó los beneficios netos de cada proyecto en lo que se refiere a la reducción de los costos de
operación de vehículo, costo por tiempo de pasajero, y gastos de mantenimiento de las vías que se



                                                    - 32 -

llevaron a cabo después de la ejecución del mantenimiento periódico o los trabajos de rehabilitación.
Para el desarrollo de los trabajos, el modelo estimó los beneficios netos de reducir la congestión, por la
ampliación de las vías o la construcción de distribuidores. El resultado global es que todos los proyectos
fueron bien justificados económicamente, bajo los escenarios ex--ante y ex---post, con todas las tasas
de rentabilidad superiores al 12 por ciento y en muchos casos superiores al 30 por ciento. Los altos
beneficios del proyecto encontrados son debidos al tráfico relativamente alto, los costos razonables de
inversión y las condiciones de deterioro de las vías encontradas antes del proyecto. Para los 27
proyectos, la Tasa Interna de Retorno global ex-post es 59 por ciento, correspondiendo a un total de
Valor Presente Neto de 215 millones de dólares (U.S. $ 215,00) y en conjunto un Valor Presente Neto
por inversión en una proporción de 1,59.

- TASA FINANCIERA DE RETORNO: NO APLICA.

- IMPACTO EN EL DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL: La implementación del proyecto ha tenido un
significativo impacto en el desarrollo institucional, dada la baja capacidad institucional existente en todos
los niveles del sector, evidenciada durante la gestión del MTC, que trajo como consecuencia el traslado
del Programa a FONTUR, dado que la institución contaba con una experiencia previa en el manejo de
programas con financiamiento multilateral en el área de transporte. Pese a su experiencia limitada en la
implementación de proyectos multilaterales en el sector de vialidad, FONTUR ha demostrado ser
altamente capaz de dirigir este proyecto y ha fortalecido la capacidad de supervisar programas futuros
en el sector.    La reestructuración del proyecto que había sido concebido para la rehabilitación y
mantenimiento de las vías con un desarrollo institucional a nivel del gobierno central, enfocó sus
objetivos hacia la descentralización, mientras ampliaba sus objetivos físicos. A nivel estatal el impacto
del proyecto ha sido tremendo, ya que en dichas entidades se ha fortalecido la capacidad directiva y
administrativa interna y se han emprendido las obras civiles que varían en numero y tamaño                de
acuerdo a las necesidades y disponibilidad de recursos, contando con algunos que han ejecutado mas
de 10 obras en sus territorios con los recursos del préstamo.

E.      PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACION Y RESULTADOS.
        (a)
FACTORES FUERA DEL CONTROL DEL GOBIERNO O LA AGENCIA DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN: La
firma del convenio de préstamo y la declaración de efectividad se retrasaron debido a la inestabilidad
política existente en el país con motivo de dos intentos de golpe de estado y el enjuiciamiento del
entonces Presidente de la República. Como consecuencia de la inestabilidad política, hubo varios
cambios en las administraciones gubernamentales en el período comprendido entre 1993 y 1999. A
finales del año 1999, fuertes lluvias causaron grandes inundaciones con las consiguientes pérdidas de
vidas y graves daños a la infraestructura vial existente en algunos estados costeros del país. Este hecho
originó la reasignación de algunos fondos del préstamo para atender las obras de emergencia ocurridas
en los estados Carabobo, Miranda y Yaracuy. En fecha más reciente, la implementación del proyecto se
vio afectada por la inestabilidad política relacionada con los acontecimientos del 11 de abril de 2002, los
cuales retrasaron las actividades gubernamentales y la asignación de los recursos de la contrapartida
local durante varios meses, incrementándose en los últimos meses del año 2002 y principios del 2003,
producto de la huelga general ocurrida en el país. (b) FACTORES GENERALMENTE SUJETOS AL
CONTROL DEL GOBIERNO: i) Institucionales: Para la ocasión de la evaluación del primer proyecto
del Banco Mundial para el sector, el gobierno no consideró la experiencia previa que tuvo en la gestión
del MTC, de un préstamo otorgado por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo destinado a la vialidad
agrícola del país. En tal sentido, para el presente proyecto se sobreestimó la capacidad institucional
existente para la implementación de un Programa ambicioso, que involucraba la acción conjunta de
varias dependencias del MTC, bajo la coordinación de una Unidad Coordinadora del Programa sin nivel
decisorio, dado que estaba adscrita a la Dirección General Sectorial de Vialidad Terrestre del MTC, sin
facultad para el manejo de los fondos y sujeta a la asignación de recursos dispuestos para el programa
en el presupuesto anual de la Dirección. ii) Nivel de compromiso del Gobierno con el Programa: La
transitoriedad de las autoridades de los organismos gubernamentales involucrados en el Programa,
producto de la situación política existente en el país durante los primeros años de la implementación, así
como la reorganización del MTC, hizo lucir débil el compromiso del gobierno con relación al proyecto,



                                                     - 33 -

situación que se tradujo en un bajo nivel de ejecución, resultando en el traslado del Programa a
FONTUR. iii) Factores macroeconómicos: La depreciación del bolívar en los años 1995-1996 y
2001-2002, redujo considerablemente la porción de los fondos del gobierno para la contrapartida local y
a su vez, el total de desembolsos del préstamo, incrementándose significativamente la porción de
fondos no utilizados del mismo, lo que generó un ahorro en los costos financieros. A finales del Proyecto
la mencionada porción ascendió a la cantidad de 26,7 millones de dólares (U.S.$ ), la cual no pudo
utilizarse debido a la negativa del Banco de conceder una nueva prórroga al cierre del programa. iv)
Dificultades severas en el flujo de los fondos del Programa: El flujo de los fondos del préstamo
experimentó severas dificultades debido a la no asignación en la Ley Paraguas, que establece la
cantidad de recursos externos de acuerdo al requerimiento anual del Ministerio de Infraestructura y
luego de la revisión y aprobación de la Asamblea Nacional.           Este proceso, sensible a cuestiones
políticas, ha sido lento al extremo de haber superado en ocasiones el año fiscal correspondiente. Las
demoras en la asignación de los fondos a los Institutos de Vialidad retrasaron los pagos a los
contratistas, lo cual ocasionalmente condujo a la paralización de los trabajos. Cabe destacar, que si los
fondos del préstamo permanecen sin utilizar a finales del año, no pueden ser trasladados
automáticamente para el siguiente año, a pesar de los compromisos contractuales en curso. Durante la
ejecución del préstamo, la asignación del presupuesto anual se efectuó en función a las disponibilidades
presupuestarias del MTC, lo cual condujo a las insuficientes asignaciones con los consecuentes efectos
negativos para el proyecto. Como resultado, se hizo dificultoso compensar los retrasos anteriores con el
incremento de los desembolsos durante los últimos años del proyecto. También, esta situación limitó la
continuidad en la programación de las obras, ya que las que habían comenzado en un año dado,
podrían ser privadas de recursos durante el año siguiente. Los cambios en el ámbito macroeconómico
produjeron grandes disminuciones en las condiciones reales de los fondos externos para el proyecto, a
no ajustarse los montos a los niveles de inflación del país. Los topes fijados por la Ley Paraguas no
podían modificarse una vez aprobados sino por la vía de créditos adicionales y de acuerdo a las
condiciones económicas del país. En caso de un proceso inflacionario severo, la cantidad asignada se
disminuye notablemente. Actualmente el gobierno modificó la Ley Paraguas para permitir el uso de
presupuestos plurianuales dentro de los negocios crediticios externos, sin embargo este progreso
pudiera verse afectado por la incertidumbre política actual. (c) FACTORES GENERALMENTE
SUJETOS AL CONTROL DE LA AGENCIA DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN: En los primeros años de la
implementación, el MTC enfrentó una curva de aprendizaje elevada en la comprensión de los
procedimientos de procura y desembolso del Banco, a pesar que previamente se había adquirido una
experiencia en la gestión de un préstamo otorgado por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, destinado
a la vialidad agrícola del país. Mucha de esta capacidad se perdió como resultado de la reestructuración
del Ministerio y las dificultades en la disponibilidad de recursos presupuestarios. Lo anterior imposibilitó
la consolidación del equipo técnico y administrativo requerido para el manejo de la Unidad, dado que la
relación laboral se rigió a través de contratos anuales cuya renovación se limitaba cada vez más, al
extremo que al momento de la transferencia del Programa a FONTUR, permanecía en la Unidad
Coordinadora un numero muy reducido del personal necesario para la operación. Con el traslado a
FONTUR, el Programa experimentó un gran cambio en el estilo de gerencia, la capacidad de dirección y
el fuerte compromiso con el proyecto. A nivel de los estados participantes ocurrió una situación similar a
la mencionada anteriormente, estableciéndose una diferencia entre ellos, con relación al compromiso de
cada región en la implementación del Programa. Es así como en algunos estados se constituyó un
equipo con dedicación exclusiva al proyecto, circunstancia que permitió un mayor aprovechamiento de
los recursos del préstamo. Otros factores que impactaron la ejecución se refirieron a los retrasos e
insuficiencia de recursos de contrapartida local y externos para el Programa y los complejos
procedimientos administrativos para obtener esos fondos. Así mismo, se evidenció una capacidad
inadecuada en la localización, compilación y consolidación de la información financiera, especialmente
en todos los estados participantes en el Programa y en menor grado, en FONTUR. Al comienzo de la
implementación, en el MTC, la conciliación de las cuentas fue llevada a cabo por un Ingeniero con un
entrenamiento limitado y una experiencia casi no formal en el área contable. Las auditorías anuales del
proyecto fueron a menudo retrasadas, con algunos informes de auditoría que tomaron más de un año
para completarlos. Al asumir FONTUR la ejecución del Programa en agosto del año 1998, ya había sido
seleccionada la firma para realizar la auditoria correspondiente al año terminado al 31-12-1997, sin
embargo, debido a la insuficiencia presupuestaria, no se había formalizado la firma del contrato, hecho
que ocurrió a finales del año 1998. Con el tiempo, FONTUR constituyó la Unidad de Contabilidad del



                                                     - 34 -

proyecto y contrató el personal calificado para la elaboración de los estados financieros del Programa y
el entrenamiento a los estados coejecutores en la preparación de la información relacionada con el área.
Sin embargo, FONTUR estuvo continuamente tratando de ajustar en años posteriores, los montos de los
años anteriores debido a los datos erróneos. Al final del proyecto, la obtención y revisión de la
información financiera continuó siendo llevada a cabo intensivamente de forma manual, lo cual ha
creado otros retrasos en los reportes y ha incrementado la susceptibilidad a errores. Los sistemas
internos no fueron integrados ni automatizados, especialmente para la información de la inversión en
obras. Las estimaciones internas de la confiabilidad de la información es de alrededor de un 80 % con
algunas omisiones e inconsistencias.

- COSTOS Y FINANCIAMIENTO: El costo final del proyecto resultó en alrededor de 209,1 millones de
dólares (U.S. $), con un monto de 206,1 millones de dólares (U.S $) correspondiente a las obras civiles,
representando un 98% del total del préstamo. Las obras civiles del proyecto incluyeron nuevas
construcciones, rehabilitaciones, ampliaciones, repavimentación de vías principales y supervisión e
ingeniería. El resto, cerca de 3,0 millones de dólares (U.S $) fue asignado a la asistencia técnica. En
total, el Banco financió programas de carreteras en siete estados (Aragua, Barinas, Carabobo, Mérida,
Miranda, Monagas y Yaracuy). Del monto original del préstamo, 150,00 millones de dólares, se realizó
una cancelación parcial de 40,0 millones de dólares en Abril del año 1997. Al final del proyecto, un
estimado de 26,7 millones de dólares (U.S. $) quedó sin utilizar, con un porcentaje relevante de este
monto relacionado con los ahorros de costos debido a la depreciación del bolívar. El proyecto fue parte
de un importante Programa de interés, el VIAL III, destinado a la rehabilitación y mantenimiento de la
red vial principal, el cual contó con el financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (200,00
millones U.S. $), la Corporación Andina de Fomento ( 70,00 millones           U.S. $) y la República de
Venezuela (432,00 U.S. $). El BID financió subproyectos de carreteras en otros seis estados
(Anzoátegui, Falcón, Guárico, Lara, Táchira y Zulia) que no fueron cubiertos por el préstamo del Banco.
De igual manera, se tenia previsto destinar 50,00 millones de dólares (U.S. $) del préstamo del BID,
para la rehabilitación de la Autopista Caracas- La Guaira, no concretándose esta acción, ya que dicha
Autopista fue concesionada. El gobierno aportó la cantidad de 121,4 millones de dólares de los fondos
de la contrapartida local de los 400,00 millones de dólares planificados. Este monto fue ajustado hacia
debajo de los 490,00 millones de dólares para justificar la cancelación del préstamo del Banco y la
redirección de los fondos del BID. Hay también unos 70,0 millones de dólares del préstamo de la CAF
que ha sido utilizado principalmente para cubrir los fondos de contrapartida local del préstamo del BID.
No obstante, el nivel más bajo de los fondos de la contrapartida local se atribuye a las dificultades
macroeconómicas y fiscales en Venezuela, así como la depreciación del bolívar, que redujo en términos
relativos el nivel de contribuciones del gobierno central.

F.       SUSTENTABILIDAD: La sustentabilidad del proyecto se considera probable, en la medida que
se continúe cultivando la cultura del mantenimiento en el país dadas las restricciones económicas
existentes, que hace imperiosa la necesidad de planificar racionalmente la inversión de los recursos
asignados al sector y resguardar las obras realizadas para retardar su deterioro natural. El uso eficiente
que se haga de las fortalezas logradas con la implementación del Programa contribuirá a este fin, ya
que se cuenta con una capacidad institucional instalada tanto a nivel central como a nivel de los estados
participantes en el Programa, que permitirá en caso de que ocurra, la asunción de una nueva operación
crediticia con organismos externos. También a nivel gubernamental se hace necesario el apoyo a la
descentralización, con las variantes que consideren los lineamientos de la gestión en curso, dado que
las entidades regionales han demostrado un compromiso en la edificación de la capacidad interna y el
manejo de las actividades del sector; así como también se requiere la asignación de los recursos
presupuestarios suficientes. Es fundamental también, la implementación de fundaciones para atender el
sector, cuyo diseño se realizó bajo el proyecto, pero no se concretó.

- CLASIFICACIÓN RACIONAL PARA LA SUSTENTABILIDAD. ARREGLOS DE TRANSICIÓN PARA
UNA OPERACIÓN REGULAR: El proyecto que lleva a cabo la Gerencia del Programa es probable que
se integre dentro de FONTUR o MINFRA, con la mayoría del equipo que transfiere a la agencia del
sucesor. La sustentabilidad varía dramáticamente entre los estados participantes, ya que algunos de
ellos parecen tener más recursos financieros, así como capacidad administrativa y técnica con respecto
a otros.



                                                   - 35 -

G.       ACTUACIÓN DEL BANCO Y EL PRESTATARIO.
-BANCO: (a) PRESTANDO ASISTENCIA EN LA PREPARACIÓN DEL PROYECTO: La actuación del
Banco con respecto a la asistencia en la preparación del proyecto se considera marginalmente
satisfactoria, dado que el diseño fue muy ambicioso para las condiciones existentes en el país en la
década de los noventa y no se estimó la circunstancia de que era la primera operación crediticia del
Banco en el sector. A pesar que el Proyecto en conjunto englobó las necesidades del sector presentes
en la ocasión de la evaluación, el mismo careció de una estructura concreta para la implementación y
un programa de trabajo para la ejecución del componente de inversión, el mayor del préstamo. Así
mismo, no se previó el impacto de la descentralización, especialmente en lo respectivo a las cuestiones
de la gestión financiera. El Informe de Proyecto no proporcionó la dirección adecuada a una agencia de
implementación que carecía la experiencia en la ejecución de proyectos del sector. (b)
SUPERVISANDO: A pesar de los numerosos retrasos al comienzo de la implementación del proyecto, la
actuación del equipo de supervisión del Banco se considera altamente satisfactoria, demostrando la
habilidad de equilibrar las situaciones que se presentaron durante la ejecución; animando la continuidad
del proyecto cuando se realizó la cancelación parcial del préstamo; imprimiendo un mayor énfasis en la
participación de los estados en el marco de la descentralización; apoyando el traslado del Programa del
MTC a FONTUR; sirviendo de intermediario, junto con el BID, entre MINFRA y los estados para
asegurar que los fondos adecuados fueran encauzados del Programa al nivel local; agilizando los
desembolsos con la disminución de los límites correspondientes a los pagos por obras civiles de
900.000,00 dólares a 300.000,00; flexibilizando los procedimientos para la atención de las emergencias
ocurridas en el país con motivos de las inundaciones, entre otras acciones. (c) ACTUACIÓN GLOBAL
DEL BANCO: En general, se considera la actuación del Banco como satisfactoria, en un programa que
fue diseñado para satisfacer las extensas necesidades del sector, a pesar de no haberse considerado
totalmente al principio, la incorporación de la agenda de la descentralización.

- PRESTATARIO. (a) EN LA PREPARACIÓN DEL PROYECTO: La actuación del gobierno durante la
preparación se considera insatisfactoria, ya que se subestimaron los riesgos del proyecto y se
sobreestimó la capacidad institucional existente; además no se aseguró que hubiera suficiente
disponibilidad de recursos en las gobernaciones de estado, las cuales                  fueron llamadas a
comprometerse sin un programa definido de trabajo. Un numero de las obras contenidas en el Informe
de Proyecto no fueron emprendidas a solicitud del gobernador. (b) ACTUACIÓN DEL GOBIERNO EN
LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DEL PROYECTO: La actuación del gobierno en la implementación se
considera insatisfactoria, ya que hubo grandes dificultades en la provisión de fondos de la contrapartida
local y la asignación de los fondos del préstamo como resultado de la Ley Paraguas. También el
compromiso central generalmente débil, sobre todo durante los primeros 4 a 5 años de la ejecución del
programa. (c) AGENCIA DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN: La actuación, tanto de FONTUR como los Institutos
de Vialidad se considera satisfactoria. El compromiso de las gobernaciones de estado con el Programa
ha permanecido fuerte a lo largo del proyecto. (d) ACTUACIÓN GLOBAL DEL PRESTATARIO: En
general, la actuación del Prestatario se considera satisfactoria, tomando en cuenta la acción de los
estados participantes.


H.       LECCIONES APRENDIDAS: El gobierno central debe continuar apoyando la descentralización
del sector, ya que a pesar de las dificultades que se han enfrentado sobre la marcha, se han producido
cambios favorables que es necesario mantener y fortalecer. En este sentido, el Ejecutivo Nacional debe
retomar el control sobre la coordinación y planificación, así como la función reguladora de las
actividades del sector para asegurar una integración adecuada y una continuidad entre los estados, en
concordancia con el plan de desarrollo de la nación. De igual manera, debe proporcionarse una mayor
asistencia a los gobiernos regionales, a fin de mantener y aumentar la capacidad directiva, técnica y
administrativa en las instituciones del sector; así como la implementación de mecanismos de
financiamiento que permitan la sustentabilidad de la actividades del sector.

Por otra parte, debe exponerse a este nivel los logros obtenidos en el Programa, a los fines de crear la
actitud favorable a la atención de las debilidades existentes, para lograr el mejor aprovechamiento de



                                                   - 36 -

los recursos otorgados por los organismos multilaterales tan necesarios para el país, dadas las
dificultades económicas actuales, como resultado del impacto causado por los acontecimientos políticos
ocurridos en los últimos años. En el caso de una futura formación de una política pública destinada al
sector, deben considerarse todos los aspectos omitidos en el presente proyecto, a fin de lograr la
eficiencia y eficacia en el manejo de la misma y procurar la mayor cobertura posible, incorporado los
estados que no fueron beneficiados con el Programa Vial III. La agencia de implementación que
gestione una nueva operación, debe ejercer una coordinación más fuerte, en primer lugar, entre los
organismos gubernamentales involucrados en el Programa para facilitar el flujo de las actividades
inherentes al mismo, y por ende, el logro de los objetivos propuestos. A nivel de los estados
participantes, asistirlos en la planificación de las inversiones del sector, enmarcadas en la priorización
de las necesidades y la disponibilidad real de los recursos financieros para su ejecución y la continuidad
del fortalecimiento institucional tanto al nivel central como regional.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The IDB and the CAF did not sumbit comments for this report.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                      - 37 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
               Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Total Km. rehabilitated                          1313 km                         1313 km

     a. of which new road construction,               1133 km                         1133 km
         rehabilitation, reconstruction
         (including resurfacing)
                                                     190 km                            190 km
      b. of which extraordinary road
         maintenance



2. Number of states decentralized                     16                               16

3. Number of states coexecuting the project            7                                7

4. Establishment of financing mechanism       Not Completed, only designed    Not Completed, only designed
for road maintenance acceptable to the Bank




                                                         - 38 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Average km maintained by state road
agencies participating in the project

       a.    in 1997                                            1,594 km                                             1,594 km
       b.    in 2001                                           10,908 km                                            10,908 km
2. % Km in managed by participating state
road agencies in very good, good, regular,
and poor condition

       Very Good                                                                                                      15.6%
       Good                                                                                                           28.9%
       Regular                                                                                                        35.2%
       Poor                                                                                                           20.4%
3.   Average % increase/decrease in traffic
levels in the roads financed by the project                                                                           21.3%
4. Average # of accidents/1000 vehicles in
participating states
       a.    in 1997                                                                                                   .220
       b.    in 2001                                                                                                   .160
5. Average # of fatalities/1000 vehicles in
participating states
     a.    in 1997                                                                                                    .014
       b.    in 2000                                                                                                   .014
6. Km road signs & signals added by
participating state governments at project                                                                            1247 km
end.
7. Average % increase/decrease in cost                                                                              -15.4%
savings in the roads financed by the project
8. Average increase/decrease in time                                                                                14.5 min
savings (in minutes) in the roads financed by
the project.
9. Average size of professional staff in state                                                                        9.5
road agencies that participated in the project.
10. Average km/professional staff for road                                                                          828/km
networks under state road management for
states participating in the project.
11. Total km tolled by seven participating                                                                          796 km
states
12. Total km tolled under private sector                                                                            448 km
contract within the 7 participating states
13. Number of contracts with private sector
operators entered into by the 7 participating                                                                           4
states

1End of project
*Note: Output indicators were not required at the time the SAR was approved. As a result, the above output indicators were created ex-post using data
provided by FONTUR and the 7 participating states.




                                                                     - 39 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal        Actual/Latest           Percentage of
                                                                            Estimate           Estimate               Appraisal
                            Component                                      US$ million        US$ million
Highway Rebilitation*                                                       186.80                274.80                    147.1
Highway Resurfacing*                                                        145.40                   0.00
Capacity Increase*                                                           17.00                   0.00
Bridge & Tunnel Rehabilitation (includes construction)                      102.40                 10.42                     10.2
Marking & Signalling                                                         18.70                   0.42                     2.2
Routine & Emergency Maintenance                                             218.30                   0.00
Engineering & Supervision                                                    27.60                   2.14                     7.8
Technical Assistance and Training                                            13.70                   2.97                    21.7


Total Baseline Cost                                                         729.90                290.75
 Physical Contingencies                                                      49.70
 Price Contingencies                                                         60.40
                              Total Project Costs                           840.00                290.75
                       Total Financing Required                             840.00                290.75
*Aggregate amounts are for the entire road program. Category also includes new road and highway construction. Actual
amounts relating to highway resurfacing and capacity increases as well as some engineering & supervision activities that could
not be accurately disaggregated and were included under highway rehabilitation.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                       2           N.B.F.            Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
1. Works                                  112.00              160.00               0.00              520.60               792.60
                                          (56.00)             (80.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)             (136.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00                 0.00               0.50               0.50                 1.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.50)              (0.00)               (0.50)
3. Services                                0.00                 0.00               17.00              16.70                33.70
Engineering/Supervision                    (0.00)              (0.00)             (8.50)              (0.00)               (8.50)
4. Technical Assistance/                   0.00                 0.00               9.00               3.70                 12.70
Training
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)             (5.00)              (0.00)               (5.00)
5. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00               0.00               0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00               0.00               0.00                 0.00
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)
    Total                                 112.00              160.00               26.50             541.50               840.00
                                          (56.00)             (80.00)            (14.00)              (0.00)             (150.00)




                                                           - 40 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB                 NCB                   2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               145.62                14.45           0.00             47.79            207.86
                                       (80.91)               (0.04)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (80.95)
2. Goods                                 0.00                0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                              0.00                0.00            0.82             0.00              0.82
Engineering/Supervision                 (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance/                 0.00                0.00            2.97             0.00              2.97
Training
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)         (2.31)            (0.00)           (2.31)
5. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               145.62                14.45           3.79             47.79            211.65
                                       (80.91)               (0.04)         (2.31)            (0.00)           (83.26)
*Total Cost by Procurement Arrangements refers only to the Bank loan.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                          - 41 -

Project Financing by Component* (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
      Component*                     Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank          Govt.         CoF.         Bank          Govt.        CoF.      Bank      Govt. CoF.
Highway Rehabilitation**        44.80         82.20        59.80         75.78        121.24       77.78      169.2     147.5 130.1


Highway Resurfacing             34.90         64.00        46.50          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.0     0.0    0.0
Capacity Increase                4.10         7.50          5.40          0.00         0.00                     0.0     0.0    0.0
Bridge & Tunnel                 24.60         45.10        32.80          5.02         5.40         0.00       20.4     12.0   0.0
Rehabilitation/Constructio
n
Marking & Signalling             4.50         8.20          6.00          0.12         0.30         0.00        2.7     3.7    0.0
Routine & Emergency              0.00        218.30         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.0     0.0    0.0
Maintenance
Engineering & Supervision        6.60         12.10         8.80          0.00         0.82         1.32        0.0     6.8   15.0
Technical Assistance             5.00         5.50          3.20          2.31         0.66         0.00       46.2     12.0   0.0
and Training
Price and Physical              25.50         49.40        35.20          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.0     0.0    0.0
Contingencies

  * The Bank loan accounted for 24 percent of the appraisal finacing plan. The IDB loan accounted for 35 percent.
   ** Category also includes new road and highway construction. Actual amounts relating to highway resurfacing, capacity
  increases, and engineering and supervision could not be accurately disaggregated and were included under highway
  rehabilitation.




                                                              - 42 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic evaluation in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) consisted of a network strategic analysis and
the economic evaluation of the first year program, which was prepared using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The network strategic analysis evaluated 32,869 km of
bituminous roads by 33 representative road classes, comprising many road sections, which were uniform in
terms of traffic, road conditions, surface type and number of lanes.

Based on the network analysis, a first year program was defined, which consisted of 19 road sections to be
rehabilitated (532 km), with a budget of US$45 million, and 19 road sections to be resurfaced (443 km),
with a budget of US$17 million. The economic evaluation of the first year program yielded a consolidated
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 53 percent; the range of values obtained for individual road segments
extending from 34 percent to 74 percent.

The ex-post economic evaluation was done using the Highway Development and Management Model
(HDM-4), adopting an evaluation period of 20 years and a discount rate of 12 percent. To obtain a uniform
and consistent evaluation among the different subprojects, the HDM-4 Model was used to simulate an
ex­ante economic evaluation for each project, considering the following parameters: (a) original contract
costs, (b) traffic and annual traffic growth rate estimated at the project design phase, and (c) the timing and
duration of estimated subproject implementation periods at contract signing.          The simulated ex­ante
evaluation was then compared with the ex-post evaluation considering the following factors: (a) actual
costs; (b) actual traffic and traffic growth rates during the 1996 to 2001 period, and (c) actual timing and
duration of road work implementations. For both evaluations, all costs were expressed in 2001 US
Dollars, including vehicle operating costs, which were computed using the HDM-4 Model based on current
vehicle operating costs data available in Venezuela. The HDM-4 Model estimated the net benefits of each
project in terms of reducing vehicle operating costs, passenger time costs, and road maintenance
expenditures that were carried out after the execution of periodic maintenance or rehabilitation works. For
the development works, the model estimated the net benefits of reducing congestion by widening a road or
building a bypass.

Road Works

The ex-post study evaluated 27 projects, in which was possible to collect reliable data, comprising 482 km,
which required an investment of US$136 million, representing 62 percent of the civil works project costs.
The table below presents the road works evaluated at the ex-post study.




                                                      - 43 -

                                             Road Works Evaluated at the Ex-Post Study
                                                                                           Road Road Traffic
              Road                                           Road                         Length Width 2001 Investment
     State    Section                                        Work                          (km)   (m)  (vpd) (US$ M.)
     Carabobo T005 Dist. San Blas Dist. La Florida           Widening Adding 2 Lanes         6.0 21.9 35092       6.08
     Aragua   L008 Paso de Cura - Km 25                      Overlay 40 to 59 mm           25.0    9.1 1900       2.54
     Aragua   T011Paso de Cura - Km 15                       Overlay 40 to 59 mm           15.0    9.1 2957       1.20
     Aragua   T011Límite Carabobo - Villa de Cura            Overlay 60 to 70 mm           16.1    6.9 1797       1.68
     Aragua   T011Límite Guárico - Distribuidor Pardillal    Overlay 60 to 70 mm           27.5    7.6 2532       3.92
     Aragua   T011Distribuidor Pardillal - Empalme S071      Overlay 60 to 70 mm           18.4    8.0 2629       3.42
     Aragua   T011Empalme S071 - Paso de Cura                Overlay 60 to 70 mm           18.0    9.0 1973       2.82
     Carabobo T011 Prog. 28+500 Limite Yaracuy.              Mill and Replace              20.0  14.0  9908       3.44
     Carabobo T001 Moron Urama Limite Yaracuy                Mill and Replace              20.0    7.3 6842       1.66
     Carabobo T011 Prog. Encr. De Carabobo - Bejuma.         Mill and Replace              28.5  14.0  9908       9.66
     Carabobo T011 C. Tacarigua - Guigue - Limite Aragua     Mill and Replace              22.0    6.6 7290       3.78
     Carabobo T003 Dist. El Palito Dist. El Cangrejo         Mill and Replace              12.5  16.0  9831       2.49
     Carabobo T003 Dist. El Cangrejo - Lim. Edo. Falcon.     Mill and Replace              10.9  14.6 12772       3.08
     Carabobo T001 Moron - Urama Limite Yaracuy              Mill and Replace                6.6   7.3 6842       0.49
     Carabobo T005 Dist. La Florida - Encr. De Carabobo      Mill and Replace              11.3  20.0 35092       4.11
     Yaracuy  T011. Los Cogollos-Nirgua                      Mill and Replace              17.0  14.0  6237       5.35
     Miranda  Santa Teresa - Los Alpes                       Reconstruction Bituminous     30.0    6.0 1818       3.78
     Miranda  Los Alpes ­ Araguita                           Reconstruction Bituminous     14.0    6.0 2064       3.94
     Miranda  Los Alpes - Límite Guárico                     Reconstruction Bituminous     31.0    6.0 1201       3.79
     Mérida   L001, Apartaderos - Santo Domingo              Reconstruction Bituminous     24.2    6.7 1928       3.21
     Mérida   L001, Santo Domingo - Limite Barinas           Reconstruction Bituminous     20.5    6.8 2818       2.88
     Mérida   T007, Apartaderos - Mucuruba                   Reconstruction Bituminous     26.0  8.05  2785       5.05
     Barinas  L001, Barinitas Limite Mérida                  Reconstruction Bituminous     13.0    7.3 2750       4.02
     Barinas  L001, Santo Domingo -Limite Barinas            Reconstruction Bituminous     14.0    7.3 2750       4.34
     Carabobo La Raya - Alpargaton.                          New 4 Lane Highway            19.5  14.6  6964      20.31
     Miranda  Charallave ­ Ocumare                           New 4 Lane Highway              9.3 20.0  9734      13.53
     Miranda  Guarenas ­ Casarapa                            New 6 Lane Highway              5.5 28.5 60023      15.22
     Total                                                                                 481.8               135.79



The projects included: (a) resurfacing asphalt concrete overlays with a thickness of 50 mm, (b)
strengthening asphalt concrete overlays with thickness varying from 60 or 70 mm, (c) mill and replacement
works with an average milling depth of 70 mm and average 90 mm replacement layer, (d) asphalt concrete
reconstructions with a 50 mm surfacing layer, (e) widening one road from 2 to 4 lanes, and (f) building
three new highways that are bypasses to existing congested roads.

The investments represent actual expenditures on each contract, expressed on 2001 US Dollars, which were
computed by first expressing the flow of disbursements in 2001 Bolivars, using the Venezuelan Consumer
Price Index, and then converting the resulting Bolivars to Dollars using the average 2001 exchange rate.
The following table presents the resulting average actual unit road works costs for different work types. In
the SAR, the estimated average reconstruction unit cost was 32.5 US$/m and the estimated average 50 mm
                                                                                          2


overlay unit costs was 8.9 US$/m , expressed in 2001 US Dollars, which indicates that the actual costs are
                                            2


in line with the estimates in the SAR.




                                                               - 44 -

                                                      Average Actual Unit Road Works
                                                                                               Number       Cost     Cost
  Work Class                        Work Type                       Predominant Work Activity  Projects (US$/m2) (US$/km)
  Periodic                          Asphalt Mix Resurfacing         Overlay 40 to 59 mm              2      10.0   72,920
  Rehabilitation                    Strengthening                   Overlay 60 to 70 mm              4      18.7  136,263
                                                                    Mill and Replace                 9      17.4  127,032
                                    Reconstruction                  Reconstruction Bituminous        8      29.7  216,747
  Improvement                       Widening                        Widening Adding 2 Lanes          1     N.A. 1,012,825
  New Construction                  New 4 Lane Highway              New 4 Lane Highway               2     N.A. 1,248,029
                                    New 6 Lane Highway              New 6 Lane Highway               1     N.A. 2,767,876
  Costs in 2001 US Dollars


The graph below presents the frequency histogram of the ratio of actual costs per contract costs, both costs
expressed in 2001 US Dollars. The average ratio is 0.94 indicating that the actual costs, on average, did
not increase in real terms above the contract costs. The study found that in some cases the scope of the
works increased during implementation and there were delays on the execution time, thus, increasing the
road work costs, but those cost increases were compensated by the depreciation of the Bolivar that
occurred during the project period.


                                       Project Cost

                  9

                  8

                  7

                  6

  Projects        5
          of
                  4


            Number3

                  2

                  1

                  0
                     0.4   0.6   0.8        1.0        1.2       1.4     1.6      1.8

                                Ratio of Actual Cost per Expected Cost



The graph below presents the frequency histogram of the ratio of actual execution time per expected
execution time when the contract was signed, which indicates that the actual execution times were, on
average, higher than expected. The average ratio is 2.60 indicating that the road works took to be
completed, on average, two and a half times the expected time.




                                                                          - 45 -

                                                      Project Execution Time

                                   12


                                   10


                                    8

   Projects
           of                       6



             Number                 4


                                    2


                                    0
                                       0.5   1.0         1.5       2.0       2.5       3.0       3.5    4.0

                                            Ratio of Actual Execution Time per Expected Execution Time



At contract signing, it was expected that the average works implementation period was roughly 7 months.
In actuality, the average actual execution time was around 15 months. The graph below presents the
frequency histogram of the actual execution times.


                                                      Project Execution Time

                                   14


                                   12


                                   10


                   Projects         8
                           of
                                    6

                             Number 4


                                    2


                                    0
                                       0.2   0.6         1.0       1.4        1.8       2.2      2.6    3.0

                                                            Actual Execution Time (years)



Traffic

The graph below presents the frequency histogram of the actual annual traffic growth rate found for the
period 1996-2001. The average annual traffic growth rate is 3.8 percent, which is in line with the annual
traffic growth rates adopted on feasibility and design studies in Venezuela during the project period, which
vary between 3.0 percent and 3.5 percent.




                                                                                                 - 46 -

                                                         Traffic Growth Rate

                                   7


                                   6


                                   5


   Projects                        4
           of
                                   3

             Number                2


                                   1


                                   0
                                      0.3%    1.0%      2.0%      3.0%       4.0%     5.0%       6.0%    7.0%

                                                 Actual Annual Traffic Growth Rate 1996 to 2001 (%)



The graph below represents the frequency histogram of the annual average daily traffic present in 2001 for
two-lane equivalent roads. The average daily traffic is 4,500 vehicles per day for two-lane roads with some
roads having more than 7,000 vehicles per day. The study found that the average vehicle fleet composition
was: (a) 52% cars; (b) 12% pickups, (c) 5% Buses; (d) 16% light trucks, (e) 9% medium trucks; and (f)
6% heavy trucks.


                                                   Average Daily Traffic in 2001

                                   12


                                   10


                                    8

                   Projects
                           of       6



                             Number 4


                                    2


                                    0
                                      1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10000 11000 12000

                                              Two-Lane Equivalent Average Daily Traffic in 2001 (AADT)



Economic Evaluation

The HDM-4 Model estimated the net benefits of each project in terms of reducing vehicle operating costs,
passenger time costs and road maintenance expenditures, which occurs after periodic maintenance or
rehabilitation works. For the development works, the model estimated the net benefits of reducing
congestion by widening a road or building a bypass. The following table presents ex-ante and ex­post
economic evaluations for each subproject, the Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR),
for both evaluations, and the corresponding ratios of the ex-post results per ex-ante results.

The table shows that all projects were economically well justified, under the ex-ante or ex-post scenarios,
with all rates of return higher than 12 percent and in many cases higher than 30 percent. The high project
benefits encountered are due to the relatively high traffic levels, the reasonable investment costs, and the



                                                                                                   - 47 -

deteriorated road condition found before the project. For the 27 projects evaluated, the overall ex-post IRR
is 59 percent corresponding to a total NPV of roughly US$215 million and an overall NPV per Investment
ratio of 1.59.



                                               Economic Evaluation Results
                                                        Net Present Value (Million US$) Internal Rate of Return (%)
   Road Class                                               Ex-ante     Ex-post Ex-post   Ex-ante    Ex-post Ex-post
                                                         Evaluation Evaluation    Ratio EvaluationEvaluation   Ratio
   T005 Dist. San Blas Dist. La Florida                         10.0        5.5     0.6       139         39     0.3
   L008 Paso de Cura - Km 25                                     1.2        4.7     3.8         18        51     2.8
   T011Paso de Cura - Km 15                                      0.9        2.6     2.9         37        96     2.6
   T011Límite Carabobo - Villa de Cura                           2.0        2.2     1.1         42        38     0.9
   T011Límite Guárico - Distribuidor Pardillal                   1.8        2.2     1.2         23        28     1.2
   T011Distribuidor Pardillal - Empalme S071                     0.3        1.2     4.7         15        29     2.0
   T011Empalme S071 - Paso de Cura                               1.5        3.2     2.2         21        41     2.0
   T011 Prog. 28+500 Limite Yaracuy.                             7.2        6.5     0.9         69        88     1.3
   T001 Moron Urama Limite Yaracuy                              12.1        8.7     0.7       187        205     1.1
   T011 Prog. Encr. De Carabobo - Bejuma.                        9.3        8.2     0.9         45        46     1.0
   T011 C. Tacarigua - Guigue - Limite Aragua                   19.5       13.3     0.7       142        144     1.0
   T003 Dist. El Palito Dist. El Cangrejo                       12.5       18.8     1.5       112        167     1.5
   T003 Dist. El Cangrejo - Lim. Edo. Falcon.                   18.7       10.4     0.6       316        244     0.8
   T001 Moron - Urama Limite Yaracuy                             3.5        3.0     0.9       301        406     1.3
   T005 Dist. La Florida - Encr. De Carabobo                    15.7        9.9     0.6       180        209     1.2
   T011. Los Cogollos-Nirgua                                    11.3       10.4     0.9       141        146     1.0
   Santa Teresa - Los Alpes                                     11.6       11.5     1.0         65        75     1.2
   Los Alpes ­ Araguita                                          5.2        5.4     1.0         37        43     1.2
   Los Alpes - Límite Guárico                                    5.3        5.2     1.0         39        44     1.1
   L001, Apartaderos- Santo Domingo                              0.3        0.3     1.0         15        14     1.0
   L001, Santo Domingo - Limite Barinas                          0.7        0.8     1.1         25        28     1.1
   T007, Apartaderos ­ Mucuruba                                  0.8        0.6     0.7       281         19     0.1
   L001, Barinitas Limite Mérida                                 1.2        1.3     1.1         19        19     1.0
   L001, Santo Domingo -Limite Barinas                           2.0        1.6     0.8         30        25     0.9
   La Raya - Alpargaton.                                        16.3       16.0     1.0         27        30     1.1
   Charallave ­ Ocumare                                         23.3       25.7     1.1         29        33     1.2
   Guarenas ­ Casarapa                                          31.5       36.1     1.1         25        30     1.2
   Average                                                                          1.3                          1.2
   Total                                                      226.5       215.0                 68        59


The graph below shows the frequency distribution of the ratio of ex-post IRR per ex-ante IRR, without
outliers, showing that most projects have a ratio between of 0.9 and 1.3. The average ratio is 1.2 and the
median ratio is 1.1, which indicates, overall, a small variation between the ex-ante and ex-post results.




                                                             - 48 -

                             Internal Rate of Return

                7


                6


                5


Projects        4
        of
                3

          Number2


                1


                0
                   0.8   0.9   1.0       1.1       1.2        1.3   1.4   1.5

                              Ratio of Ex-post IRR per Ex-ante IRR




                                                                    - 49 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June 1991                 2    HWY ENGR, SR. TRANS.             S               S
                                             ECONOMIST
              November 1991             1    HWY ENGR                         S               S
              February 1992             1    HWY ENGR                         S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 1992                  2    HWY ENGR,                        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT

 Supervision
              11/1993                   1    OPERATIONS ANALYST               S               S
              03/1994                   1    SR. TRANS. ECONOMIST             S               S
              04/1995                   2    HWY ENGR, CONSULTANT             S               S
              06/1995                   1    HWY ENGR                         U               S
              04/1996                   1    HWY ENGR                         U               S
              08/1996                   1    HWY ENGR                         U               S
              02/1997                   1    HWY ENGR                         U               S
              04/1997                   1    HWY ENGR                         U               S
              08/1997                   1    HWY ENGR                         S               S
              04/1998                   3    HWY ENGR, QUALITY                U               S
                                             ASSURANCE, TRANS SPEC
              09/1998                   2    HWY ENGR, OPERATIONS             S               S
                                             SPEC
              03/1999                   4    SR. HWY ENGR,                    S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPEC,
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT,
                                             TRANS SPEC
              09/1999                   2    HWY ENGR, ECONOMIST              S               S
              02/2000                   2    HWY ENGR, ECONOMIST              S               S
              02/2001                   2    HWY ENGR, ECONOMIST              S               S
              09/2001                   1    PROJECTS OFFICER                 S               S
              11/2001                   1    LEAD HWY ENGR                    S               S
              02/2002                   2    LEAD HWY ENGR,                   S               S
                                             ECONOMIST
              06/2002                   4    LEAD HWY ENGR, TRANS             S               S
                                             SPEC, ECONOMIST,
                                             CONSULTANT

 ICR
              09/2002                   4     LEAD HWY ENGR,                  S               S
                                              TRANS SPEC,
                                              ECONOMIST,
                                              CONSULTANT




                                              - 50 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            24.9                           72.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 11.5                           29.6
  Supervision                          154.5                         441.4
  ICR                                     3.6                           9.4
  Total                                194.5                         552.7




                                            - 51 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 53 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Alonso-Biarge, Jose Maria, and Ortiz, Alexandra, Decentralization of Road Network Management:
Lessons from Bolivia and some Ibero-American countries, The World Bank, Washington, DC, March 2000

Alonso-Biarge, Jose Maria, and Juan M. Compte Guinovart, Alberto Compte Anguela et al, Analysis of
Highway Decentralization Models for the Development of a Decentralization Strategy in Mexico,
Washington, DC, April 2001

The World Bank Group, Staff Appraisal Report for the Venezuela Highway Management Project, The
World Bank Group, Washington DC, November 1, 1992.

The World Bank Group, Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Republic of Venezuela, The World
Bank, Washington, DC, 1993.

The World Bank Group, Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Republic of Venezuela, The World
Bank, Washington, DC, April 8 1997.




                                                 - 54 -

- 55 -

