                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                          Report No.: AB7022
 Project Name                 Pakistan: Promoting Girls' Education in Balochistan (PGEB)
 Region                       SOUTH ASIA
 Sector                       Education for all (70%), Gender (30%)
 Project ID                   P128096
 Borrower(s)                  GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
 Implementing Agency          Responsible Agency: Secondary Education Department
                              Contact Person: Mr. Munir Ahmed Badini
                              Designation: Secretary
                              Telephone No.:92-81-9203311
                              Fax No.:92-81-9202727
                              Responsible Agency: Project Management Unit (PMU)
                              Contact Person: Mr. Noor-ul-Haq Baloch
                              Designation: Project Director, PMU, PGEB
                              Telephone No.: 92-3337839225
                              Email: noorbaloch78@yahoo.com
 Environment Category         [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared            April 4, 2012
 Estimated Date of            May 21, 2012
 Appraisal Completion
 Estimated Date of            August 15, 2012
 Regional Vice President
 Approval


1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

The persistence of conflict in Pakistan poses a threat to some of the most vulnerable and
marginalized populations in the country, while also challenging economic stability across the
country. The major provinces/areas affected by this conflict are Khyber Pukhtunkhwa (KP),
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and Balochistan. In addition to the conflict and
security challenges, communities have been made further vulnerable by the severe floods of
2010 and 2011 and rising costs of food and fuel.

Balochistan has had a turbulent past with several periods of conflict between nationalist groups
and the central ruling governments of Pakistan. The most recent conflict was in 2004, the
aftermath of which is still felt in the province and amongst the Baloch people across Pakistan.
The situation in Balochistan is still far from stable with deteriorating rule of law, a challenge
even at the most peaceful of times given Balochistan’s large geographical spread.

Sector Context

Balochistan, Pakistan’s largest province in terms of geographical spread, has always ranked the
lowest in education indicators in the country – its NER for both boys and girls at the primary,
middle and higher secondary school levels is at least 10 percent lower than the national average,
and the indicators for female enrolment are particularly poor. Access is a critical issue in
Balochistan, where almost 45 percent of settlements are without a school facility. The
government struggles with providing adequate support to the schools from an access and quality
perspective. Approximately 57% schools have no drinking water, 46% no boundary wall, 52%
no electricity and 29% are without a toilet facility, while 9% schools are without any shelter.

Institutional weaknesses in the province, mainly due to lack of resources and low capacity, have
been a hindrance to progress in education and are now further compounded by the conflict. The
ethnic tensions within the province require a devolved model of implementation and monitoring,
with much greater reliance on local players at the community level.

Relationship to CAS / other strategies

At the request of the Government of Pakistan, the World Bank agreed to establish and administer
a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) to respond to the needs resulting from the crisis in the north-
western border areas of Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and the Federally Administered
Tribal Areas (FATA). The MDTF finances projects identified by local and provincial
governments to:(i) promote enhanced, sustainable and accountable delivery of basic services,
including education, health, and administration of justice; (ii) support livelihoods and
community-based development of basic infrastructure and services; (iii) help communities to
access assets and market opportunities and create the basis for viable income generating
activities; (iv) support peace building activities and promote rapid crisis recovery in KP, FATA
and Balochistan; and, (v) improve governance and institutional performance by strengthening,
building and rebuilding state effectiveness through institutional strengthening and economic
governance interventions. The proposed Project will support pillars 1, 2 and 4 directly. Pillar 3
will be indirectly supported by involving local communities in school infrastructure repair and
maintenance. The proposed project directly contributes to implementing the second and fourth
pillars of Pakistan’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY 10-13 which recognizes the need
for “improved equitable access for quality education services? under its second pillar Improving
Human Development and Social Protection, and “increased responsiveness and effectiveness of
the State? under its fourth pillar Improving Security and Reducing Risk of Conflict.

2. Proposed objective(s)

Proposed Development Objective

The project development objective (PDO) is to improve access to education and retention of
children in schools, with a special emphasis on girls, in the province of Balochistan.

Key Performance Indicators

Success of the proposed project in meeting its objectives will be measured by the following key
performance indicators:

      Number of children (girls and boys) benefitting from newly established schools, and
       constructed/improved facilities in selected schools
      Retention of children in project schools
      Percentage of schools with functional Parent Teacher School Management Committees
       (PTSMCs) involved in monitoring of activities at school level.

Progress against the performance indicators will be assessed from information contained in
monitoring reports produced by the Project Management Unit, Balochistan Education
Management Information System (BEMIS) reports, and third party validations. BEMIS reports
are produced by the Directorate of Education (Schools), and serve as the main data source for
selecting project schools.


3. Preliminary description

The long-term education sector improvement plans for the province, currently under
development, need to be bolstered through short-term remedial measures to restore citizen trust
and improve provision of basic services at the community level, thus reducing the risk of conflict
through increased responsiveness of the State. For this purpose the GoB plans to immediately
rehabilitate shelter-less schools to improve their functionality, improve school physical
infrastructure, and construct new gender free (co-education) schools in areas where no school
facility is available. Implementation of all these activities is based on active community
participation at all levels of project design and implementation. Balochistan has a rich experience
of successful community-government partnership projects starting from the Community Support
Process (CSP) program in 1992 to the very recent Balochistan Education Foundation (BEF)
initiative supported by World Bank under the Balochistan Education Support Project (BESP).

The Project development objective and results will be achieved through four major components:

Component A – (US$ 5 Million) Construction of building facilities for shelter-less girls
schools (primary and middle). The list of schools will be finalized based on the established
criteria, after a physical verification of the site, and confirmation of availability of teachers and
student enrolments. The communities around the new school facilities will be organized as
Parent Teacher School Management Committees (PTSMCs) to ensure local support for effective
implementation and school improvements.

Component B (US$ 2 Million) – Provision of missing facilities to girls’ schools: This includes
the provision of missing facilities such as toilets, boundary walls, blackboards, furniture and
drinking water in girls’ primary and middle schools identified for rehabilitation based on
established criteria. PTSMCs of these schools will be mobilized to support for effective
implementation and school improvements.

Component C (US$ 1.6 Million) – Establishment of new government primary schools with
community participation: This component will support the Government’s policy to establish
new gender free (co-education) schools with active community participation in the management
of schools to ensure local support and protection for the facility, children and teachers.
Component D (US$ 1.4 Million) – Technical Assistance (TA) to the Education Department
for implementation and monitoring at the district level: The component will support the
establishment of systems and procedures for effective planning and implementation of
construction and rehabilitation activities, introduction of new/innovative approaches for
community-government partnerships, establishment of robust monitoring systems including third
party monitoring, and technical assistance.

The project will be financed by a grant from the KP/FATA/Balochistan Multi-Donor Trust Fund
(MDTF). The grant will disburse 100 percent of eligible expenditures. The MDTF will be used
to provide retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 for eligible expenditures after April 1, 2012
and prior to the signing of the Grant Agreement.

   4. Safeguard policies that might apply

Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                   [X]Yes [ ] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           [ ]Yes [X] No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                               [ ]Yes [X] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                [ ]Yes [X] No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                         [ ]Yes [X] No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   [ ]Yes [X]No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                             [ ]Yes [X] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                        [ ]Yes [X]No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                 [ ]Yes [X]No


5. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                          ($m.)
Borrower                                                                          4.46
MDTF for Crisis Affected Areas of KP/FATA/Balochistan                            10.00
                                                                      Total      14.46

6. Contact point

Contact: Umbreen Arif
Title: Senior Education Specialist
Tel: 051-9090166
Fax: 051-2279648-9
Email: uarif@worldbank.org
Location: Islamabad, Pakistan (IBRD)
