      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                      Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)



                                                                                                                          Report Number : ICRR0020146


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                                 Project Name
 P128096                                                    PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan

 Country                                                    Practice Area(Lead)
 Pakistan                                                   Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                          Closing Date (Original)                                           Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-12826                                                  30-Jun-2015                                                                 14,463,500.00

  Bank Approval Date                                        Closing Date (Actual)
  21-Aug-2012                                               30-Jun-2015

                                                                  IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                       Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                            0.00                                                  10,000,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                             0.00                                                  10,000,000.00

  Actual                                                                         0.00                                                   9,999,075.00




 Sector(s)
 Primary education(100%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for all(70%):Gender(30%)

 Prepared by                           Reviewed by                            ICR Review Coordinator                 Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                   Judyth L. Twigg                        Joy Behrens                            IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
    According to the Grant Agreement (page 4) and the Project Paper (page 7), the project objectives were as follows:

       • To improve access to education and retention of children in schools, with a special emphasis on girls, in Balochistan.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                       Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)



b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     (Note: Appraisal and actual amounts reported below reflect Grant allocation only and do not include counterpart funding.)

     1. Construction of shelter-less girls' schools (Appraisal: US$ 5.0 million; Actual: US$ 4.99 million): This component aimed to address the
     immediate need to make girls' schools less dangerous and more functional by adding roofs. The selection of approximately 130 schools
     was to be based on established criteria, including physical verification of the site, student enrollment, and availability of teachers.

     2. Provision of missing facilities to girls’ schools (Appraisal: US$ 2.0 million; Actual: US$ 2.14 million): This component also aimed to
     improve functionality of girls' schools (and the quality of the learning environment) by providing missing facilities such as latrines, walls,
     equipment, and access to drinking water. The selection of approximately 200 schools was to be based in part on proximity to the 130
     schools selected for shelters, in order to ensure efficiency in procuring civil works and supervising project implementation.

     3. Establishment of new primary schools with community participation (Appraisal: US$ 1.6 million; Actual: US$ 0.82 million): This
     component aimed to support the government's new policy of established gender-free schools with active community support. Activities
     included: construction of approximately 150 new schools; identification of female teachers with appropriate qualifications; and the
     establishment of parent-teacher school management committees (which would be actively engaged in school site identification and
     building construction, teacher recruitment, teacher attendance monitoring, and mobilization of parents).

     4. Technical Assistance to the Education Department for implementation and monitoring at the district level (Appraisal: US$ 1.4 million;
     Actual: US$ 1.2 million): This component aimed to establish systems and processes for project implementation. Activities included:
     capacity building for district education staff; monitoring and evaluation activities, including the hiring of a Third Party validating firm.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost

          • The appraised project cost was US$ 14.46 million. The actual project cost is reported in the ICR (Annex 1) as US$ 32.67 million. This does not
          reflect a cost overrun, but rather the inclusion of counterpart financing for teacher salaries for all schools in the target districts, rather than
          project schools only.
          • Cost savings for Component 3 (government schools) were generated from the following sources: lower than appraised costs of civil works;
          cancellation of project activities in several conflict areas; and exchange rate gains. These savings were used to increase the number of girls'
          school receiving missing facilities (Component 2) from 200 to 226.



     Financing

          • The project was financed in large part by a US$ 10.0 million grant from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Federally
          Administered Tribal Areas, and Balochistan. The actual amount disbursed was US$ 9.2 million.
          • Approximately US$ 800,000 of the grant was unused and was cancelled.



     Borrower contribution

          • The expected counterpart contribution was US$ 4.46 million. The reported actual amount was US$ 23.5 million, due to inclusion of teacher
          salaries for all schools in the target districts, rather than project schools only.



     Dates
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)




       • June 15, 2015: The Implementation Status Report adjusts several output targets to reflect the negative impact of the security situation on
       access to several schools, and also cost savings that enabled an increase in schools receiving missing facilities.
       • June 30, 2015: The project closed as planned.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   The province of Balochistan's indicators in education have ranked among the lowest in the country, including for net enrollment overall and for
   girls in rural areas in particular. Only 40% of girls aged 6-10 were enrolled at the primary level, and 13% of girls aged 11-13 at the middle
   school level, in 2010/11. Learning outcomes were also poor, with 31.5% of students in grade 3 able to read a sentence in Urdu and 15.6% of
   students in grade 4 able to perform division at the grade 2 level (2011). Factors contributing to these outcomes are the geographic
   sparseness of the population and the ongoing conflict, the latter having had a particularly negative effect on access to schools for students and
   teachers, and on the government's ability to provide services overall. Conditions in school buildings are also highly inadequate due to lack of
   shelter and/or other facilities such as latrines and electricity.

   The regional education sector plan for Balochistan was under preparation at the time of project appraisal and expected to include policy
   reforms that removed the restriction on girls and boys attending school together and increased community engagement. The project
   objectives are consistent with these policies, as well as with the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for the periods FY2010- 2013 and FY
   2015-2019, which identify improving human development and reducing vulnerability for poor women and children as key results areas.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project was prepared as an emergency operation, in accordance with OP/BP 8.0 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergency). Project
   outputs were likely to lead to the intended outcomes. Although the highly volatile security situation remained a significant risk factor, the project
   design included measures to mitigate the potential negative impact, including flexibility in implementation and monitoring as well as active
   mobilization of communities. The results framework primarily focused on short-term measures to restore basic education services given the
   conflict situation, but it also established conditions to support longer-term sustainable outcomes in education. Short-term measures included
   the construction or rehabilitation of schools in order to increase available spaces, especially for girls. Sites for these schools were selected to
   ensure greatest impact, according to criteria that included the number of girls enrolled, availability of female teachers, and
   community commitment to donate land and establish parent-teacher school management committees.

   The project also aimed to improve retention in schools through improving the learning environment (adequate facilities and presence of
   teachers) and improving school management (community mobilization). These interventions were to complement donor activities in the areas
   of teacher training, child-friendly school initiatives, and early childhood education.




   Rating
   High




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)


PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve access to education, with a special emphasis on girls.

    Rationale
    Outputs

        • Provision of roofs/shelters for 123 primary and middle schools for girls (target: 130). The remaining seven schools were dropped from the project
        due to security concerns. The PAD (page 23) reports that around 435 girls' schools had been declared as functioning in a dangerous building or as a
        shelter-less school; therefore, the project covered almost 30% of need.
        • Provision of other facilities (i.e. walls, drinking water, latrines) for 226 primary and middle schools for girls (target: 200).
        • Construction of 143 new government primary schools (open to both boys and girls) established according to approved policy and protocols for
        community involvement (target: 150).



    Outcomes

        • The number of children directly benefitting from the project was as follows:
                         •
                                                              Baseline                      Endline                         # Increase (%)
         Shelters                                             5,841 (girls)                 6,929 (girls)                   1,088 (19%)
         Other facilities                                     23,885 (girls)                25,182 (girls)                  1,297 (5%)
         New schools                                          0                             1,203 (girls)    5,606 (boys)   1,203 (n/a)   5,606 (n/a)
         TOTAL                                                29,726                        38,920                          9,194 (31%)
                            • Source: ICR page 9


        • The % increase in enrollment compares highly favorably to the trend in enrollment rates province-wide. The primary gross enrollment rate in
        Balochistan was as follows, according to the Living Standards Measurement Survey: 75% in 2007/08, 74% in 2010/11, 69% in 2011/12, and 67% in
        2013/14 (as reported by the project team).



    Note: The baseline and target figures for the above were not identified at project appraisal, due to the need to conduct the school survey
    and site selection first. These figures were subsequently established in Implementation Supervision Reports sequence 2 and 3 but were
    not entirely accurate. As reported in the ICR (page 9, footnote), the initial baseline figure of 10,500 students for Component 1 schools
    (those needing shelters) drew from the entire pool of shelter-less schools rather than project-supported schools only. This figure was
    then used as a proxy for the number of students to benefit from the project in both Components 1 and 2.

    In addition, output targets were slightly modified to more accurately reflect what would be achieved by project closing. The number of girls'
    schools receiving shelters was reduced from 130 to 123 due to location of seven schools in conflict-ridden areas. The number of girls'
    schools receiving other types of facilities was increased from 200 to 225 due to savings generated. The number of new schools to be
    established was reduced from 150 to 143 due to the lack of available female teachers.

    Achievement of this objective is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased access, including for girls. (Note: Due to the lack of
    accurately defined target figures, the meeting or exceeding of targets could not be properly assessed.)




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                     Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)




Objective 2

Objective
 To improve retention of children in schools, with a special emphasis on girls

Rationale
Outputs

   • Establishment of Parent-Teacher School Management Committees in 100% of project schools. The Committees were verified as functioning and
   involved in monitoring activities at the school level.
   • Contracting of 260 female teachers for the newly-established government schools. This fell short of the target of 300. The ICR (Data Sheet)
   reports that seven schools were dropped from the project due to security concerns and that some schools could only identify one teacher as a
   qualified candidate.
   • Provision of on-the-job support and training to 3,092 school staff and school management committee members (target: 1,880).



Outcomes

   • The retention rate of children in project schools increased from 70% in 2012/13 to 86% in 2013/14. This achieved the target of 85.0%, although
   there are no data on the retention rate for girls. The ICR (page 10) reports that the district-wide retention rate was 80.0%. Beneficiary feedback
   indicated two reasons for the increase: availability of physical space to sit and study, and increased teacher attendance rates. Data for 2014/15
   were not available at the time of writing the ICR.
   • The teacher attendance rate in community-managed schools was 90%. This achieved the target of 90%.



Achievement of this objective is rated Substantial due to increased retention rate and teacher attendance rate, both of which met targets.


Rating
Substantial



5. Efficiency

The project design included features that likely contributed to efficiency. This included the packaging of civil works for Components 1 and 2
according to geographic areas (i.e. Component 2 schools were selected only after Component 1 schools were verified), which increased
efficiency in packaging civil works procurement and supervising construction. . In addition, the project implemented an innovative approach to
reduce start-up costs of new schools by requiring communities to provide the school site and two rooms for the first two years of
operation. Unused/saved project funds were used to increase the number of girls' schools supported (receiving missing facilities) from 200 to
226, and the project closed on time without any extensions or cost overruns.

At project completion, the unit cost per school was calculated at US$ 4,937 (this cost included site verification, community mobilization, school
management committee training, teacher training and salary, and materials). The ICR (Annex 3) provides an economic analysis and
calculates the economic internal rate of return for the project at 19%. Costs are calculated as project costs, incremental increases in teacher
salary due to increased training and number of students, and maintenance costs. Benefits are calculated as increased earnings of graduates
and reduced cost per graduate due to decreased inefficiencies. A counterfactual scenario is also provided, assuming no project intervention,
in which the number of female and male students accessing education is significantly lower. According to the project team, the unit cost for
constructing a classroom in Pakistan was US$ 8,700 (1987) and US$ 6,800 (2001), neither of which included teacher training or operating
costs. The unit cost for this project – US$ 4,937 – therefore compares highly favorably.
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)




Efficiency Rating
High


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?            Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                               0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                           19.00
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Outcome - Satisfactory
Relevance of the project objectives is rated High and relevance of the project design is rated High. Achievement of the objective to improve
access to education and retention of children in schools, especially for girls, is rated Substantial for improved access due to increased
enrollment, including for girls. Achievement is rated Substantial for improved retention due to an increased retention rate and teacher attendance
rate. Efficiency is rated High.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

A follow-up Bank operation (Global Partnership for Education - Balochistan Education Project, P144454, US$ 34.0 million) has been approved
and became effective in March 2015. The primary project interventions and implementation mechanisms are being continued in the follow-up
operation to support sustainability of institutional capacity. The government has also committed to pay salaries of the 260 contract teachers
through another year. Active community participation through the school management committees may also help to ensure teacher attendance
and therefore sustain enrollment and retention outcomes. However, the security situation remains highly volatile, and the lack of operational
school budgets to maintain schools continues to pose substantial risk.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project design drew on prior experience with community-government partnerships for the delivery of girls' education in Balochistan.
     Lessons incorporated included ensuring engagement of communities and contracting teachers utilizing rules and procedures applicable to
     regular government teachers. Risk was appropriately assessed as High given the security situation and low capacity, and mitigation
     measures identified were largely effective; of particular note, the approach to countering governance issues and corruption was well
     considered. However, the risk of the government's inability to cover recurrent costs once project support was ended was not sufficiently
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)



   addressed. The monitoring and evaluation framework was kept simple, and alternative supervision arrangements were made in anticipation
   of difficulties in reaching project sites, including the use of global satellite technology to monitor civil works progress and the hiring of a Third
   Party Validation firm.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The field-based Bank team provided effective supervision support. Project outputs were delivered in a timely manner, despite a relatively slow
   start due to low capacity of the implementing agency. Fiduciary and safeguards performance was satisfactory with no major problems reported
   by the ICR. Monitoring activities were also carried out effectively, a notable achievement given the context of high
   insecurity. One shortcoming was the lack of accurate target figures for key indicators, although the ICR's analysis of the project's outcomes
   remained valid.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The government demonstrated strong ownership over the project's objectives and activities. It provided a supportive policy environment,
   including prioritizing school access for both boys and girls and proactive community involvement. It has adopted several processes
   introduced by the project into its own procedures, including school site identification and test-based teacher selection. Legal
   covenants were in compliance, and counterpart financing was provided in full.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The primary implementation agency was the Secondary Education Department. Despite a slow start due to the low capacity of the project
   management unit, project outputs were almost all delivered and the project was completed on schedule. Of particular note, the transparent
   and participatory model of implementation was considered as one of the key factors leading to achievement of outcomes, but it contributed
   to some delays during implementation (ICR, page 5). An example was the beneficiary-led selection of construction sites which, in some
   cases, resulted in local-level disagreements that required resolution before proceeding with construction. Fiduciary and safeguards
   performance was satisfactory.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)




a. M&E Design
   The M&E design was simple, given the emergency context and the low capacity of the implementing agency. Measures to counter the low
   capacity and security context included focus on outputs, use of global satellite technology to monitor civil works progress, and use of a Third
   Party Validation firm to verify school site selection, teacher qualifications, and functioning of school management committees. Baseline and
   target data for the key project indicators were to be set following school surveys, some of which were subsequently inaccurate.




b. M&E Implementation
   Project monitoring was effectively carried out by district offices and third party monitors despite the recurring conflicts, although the ICR (page
   6) notes the low quality of some of the information collected.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR (page 7) reports several examples of the use of the third party verification process: validation of schools selected for Component C
   (newly established government schools), and rescindment of several female teacher appointments due to lack of qualification.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as Environmental Category "B" due to the construction activities. The safeguard policy on Environmental
   Assessment (OP/ BP 4.01) was triggered and therefore an Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework was
   prepared. In accordance with the Framework requirements, an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment was to be conducted to
   identify potential negative impacts and relevant mitigation measures. The ICR (page 7) notes that environmental safeguard issues, most of
   which arose during the school site selection phase of the project (since communities tended to donate land that was in flood-prone areas,
   farmlands or forests) were addressed by the implementing agency, and no major problems occurred.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: There were no major shortcomings reported in procurement performance. The ICR (page 7) states that procurement reviews
   reported only minor issues that were resolved in a timely manner.

   Financial management: There were some delays in the hiring of financial management staff and initial challenges due to low capacity; however,
   performance improved over the project period. Audit reports were submitted on time. The ICR does not report on whether there were any
   qualifications; however, the project team subsequently confirmed that there were no qualifications.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                         Reason for
Ratings                                       ICR                                    IEG
                                                                                                                         Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                         Efficacy is rated Substantial for the
                                                                                                                         two objectives to increase access
                                                                                                                         and to increase retention. Due to
Outcome                                       Highly Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                         the lack of accurately defined
                                                                                                                         target figures, the meeting or
                                                                                                                         surpassing of such targets could
                                                                                                                         not be assessed.
Risk to Development Outcome                   Substantial                           Substantial                          ---
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory                          Satisfactory                         ---
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory                          Satisfactory                         ---
Quality of ICR                                                                      High                                 ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lesssons drawn by the ICR, adapted by IEG:

     • Implementation in clear partnership with the government contributes significantly to the sustainability of operations and the rebuilding of trust among
     citizens. In the case of this project, the government's direct involvement led to its adoption of several project processes (school site identification and
     test-based teacher selection) and the absorption of contract teacher salaries for at least one additional year after project closing. The transparency of
     these processes also helped to restore citizen trust in government services.
     • Preparation of alternative monitoring arrangements helps to ensure continuous implementation despite a volatile security situation. In the case of this
     project, the use of third party monitoring and satellite technology played a critical role in project implementation and monitoring.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR was extremely concise and focused on outcomes. The quality of the evidence was high, a notable achievement given the low
capacity and prevailing security situation. The problem of the inaccuracy of baseline and target figures was noted in the ICR, but the analysis
of achievements remained sound as the ICR drew upon other available data that was more accurate. The lessons were informative for other
operations in similar highly volatile contexts.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       PK:Promoting Girls Ed in Balochistan (P128096)




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     High
