                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR00003587


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-12826)

                                          ON A

                                        GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                    UNDER THE MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND FOR

   KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA, FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED TRIBAL AREAS, AND
                          BALOCHISTAN

                                        TO THE

                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                         FOR A

            PROMOTING GIRLS’ EDUCATION IN BALOCHISTAN PROJECT

                                    December 18, 2015




Education Global Practice
South Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 14, 2012)

               Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR)
                          1.00 = US$1.51
                       US$1.00 = PKR 94.36

                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 – June 30


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AEPAM   Academy For Education Planning and Management
ASER    Annual Status of Education Report
BEMIS   Balochistan Education Management Information System
BEF     Balochistan Education Foundation
BESP    Balochistan Education Support Project
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DFP     District Focal Person
DP      Development Partner
ECE     Early Childhood Education
EFA     Education for All
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
FATA    Federally Administered Tribal Area
FM      Financial Management
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results report
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
GoB     Government of Balochistan
GPE     Global Partnership for Education
KP      Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
MDTF    Multi-Donor Trust Fund
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
PTSMC   Parent Teacher School Management Committee
PDO     Project Development Objective
PGEB    Promoting Girls Education in Balochistan
PMU     Project Management Unit
PP      Project Paper
SED     Secondary Education Department
Senior Global Practice Director: Claudia Maria Costin
              Practice Manager: Keiko Miwa
          Project Team Leader: Umbreen Arif
             ICR Team Leader: Shinsaku Nomura
                    ICR Author: Shinsaku Nomura
                                       PAKISTAN
                       PROMOTING GIRLS’ EDUCATION IN BALOCHISTAN



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 19
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
  Annex 5. Result of Beneficiary Consultations.............................................................. 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 30
 MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                  Pakistan: Promoting
Country:               Pakistan             Project Name:         Girls' Education in
                                                                  Balochistan (PGEB)
Project ID:            P128096              L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-12826
ICR Date:              12/09/2015           ICR Type:             Core ICR
                       Emergency Recovery                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:                         Grantee:
                       Loan                                       PAKISTAN
Original Total
                      US$10.00 million       Disbursed Amount:    US$9.19 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       US$10.00 million
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Secondary Education Department, Govt. of Balochistan
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                        Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                            Date(s)
Concept Review:                     Effectiveness:       10/10/2012       09/12/2012
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/21/2012   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:             06/30/2015       06/30/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Substantial
Bank Performance:                           Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                        Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

                                            i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                         Rating
      Performance                                    (if any)
Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                          No                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                     None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                                 100                   90
Secondary education                                                                     10

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                    70                  70
Gender                                                               30                  30

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Annette Dixon                       Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Patchamuthu Illangovan              Rachid Benmessaoud
Practice
                           Keiko Miwa                          Amit Dar
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Umbreen Arif                        Umbreen Arif
ICR Team Leader:           Shinsaku Nomura
ICR Primary Author:        Shinsaku Nomura


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to improve access to education and retention of children in schools,
with a special emphasis on girls, in Balochistan.

Revised Project Development Objectives
The PDOs remained unchanged throughout the project.


                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally           Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target     Completion or
                                              documents)          Values      Target Years
                Number of girls and boys benefitting from newly established schools and
Indicator 1:
                constructed/improved facilities in selected schools
Value
(Quantitative or          10,500                  23,694              –               38,920
Qualitative)
Date achieved           03/31/2013             06/30/2015             –             06/08/2015
Comments         Target achieved. See section 3.2. for a more detailed discussion. Original
(incl. %         Project Paper (PP) kept the baseline and targets blank, to be established after
achievement) initial survey of schools and their selection.
Indicator 2: Retention of children in project schools
Value
(Quantitative or           70.0%                  85.0%               –                86.0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved           03/31/2013             06/30/2015             –             06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (achievement - 102%).
achievement)
                 Percentage of schools with functional Parent Teacher School Management
Indicator 3:
                 Committees (PTSMCs) involved in monitoring of activities at school level
Value
(Quantitative or             0                      100               –                 100
Qualitative)
Date achieved           09/30/2012             06/30/2015             –             06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (achievement - 100%).
achievement)
                 Number of girls benefitting from newly established schools and
Indicator 4:
                 constructed/improved facilities in selected schools
Value
(Quantitative or          10,000                  20,453                              33,414
Qualitative)
Date achieved           03/31/2013             06/30/2015                           06/08/2015
Comments
                 Subindicator for PDO 1. Target achieved. See section 3.2. for a more detailed
(incl. %
                 discussion.
achievement)



                                                iii
                Number of boys benefitting from newly established schools and
Indicator 5:
                constructed/improved facilities in selected schools
Value
(Quantitative or             500                 3,241                               5,606
Qualitative)
Date achieved           03/31/2013           06/30/2015                           06/08/2015
Comments
                 Subindicator for PDO 1. Target achieved. See section 3.2. for a more detailed
(incl. %
                 discussion.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target       Completion or
                                            documents)           Values        Target Years
                Number of shelter-less primary and middle girls' schools provided with adequate
Indicator 1:
                infrastructure
Value
(Quantitative or              0                      130               –                 123
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012              06/30/2015            –            06/30/2015
Comments
                 Target achieved (achievement - 95%). This is particularly impressive in light of
(incl. %
                 the security situation. Activity canceled in 7 schools due to security problem.
achievement)
Indicator 2: Number of primary and middle girls' schools provided with missing facilities
Value
(Quantitative or              0                      200               –                 226
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012              06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
                 Target surpassed (achievement - 113%). Number increased by using the
(incl. %
                 unutilized and saved funds.
achievement)
                 Number of candidates for female teacher post identified and successfully
Indicator 3:
                 contracted for newly established government, community-supported schools
Value
(Quantitative or              0                      300               –                 260
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012              06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments         Target achieved (achievement - 87%). Seven schools under Component C did
(incl. %         not become functional due to security problem and some schools had only one
achievement) teacher available in the area.



                                                iv
Indicator 4: Number of children enrolled in the new schools
Value
(Quantitative or              0                  6,000              –               6,809
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012           06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target surpassed (achievement - 113%).
achievement)
                 Number of new government primary schools established based on approved
Indicator 5:
                 policy and protocol for community-supported schools
Value
(Quantitative or              0                   150               –                143
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012           06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
                 Target achieved (achievement - 95%). Seven schools did not become functional
(incl. %
                 due to security problem.
achievement)
Indicator 6: Teacher attendance rate in community-managed schools
Value
(Quantitative or              0                    90               –                 90
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012           06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (achievement - 100).
achievement)
Indicator 7: Number of staff and PTSMC members trained through on-job support
Value
(Quantitative or              0                  1,880              –               3,092
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012           06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target surpassed (achievement - 164%).
achievement)
                 Performance reports generated including quarterly progress reports and
Indicator 8:
                 independent monitoring reports
Value
(Quantitative or              0                    12               –                 12
Qualitative)
Date achieved            09/30/2012           06/30/2015            –            06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (achievement - 100%).
achievement)




                                              v
Indicator 9: System established to monitor school construction
Value                                                                          Established and
(Quantitative or             0                 –               –               136 visits
Qualitative)                                                                   conducted
Date achieved           09/30/2012        06/30/2015           –               06/08/2015
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)

                                                                                    Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                           DO                              IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                (US$, millions)
  1    03/21/2013     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory          0.36
  2    10/09/2013     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory          3.74
  3    04/24/2014         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory          5.07
  4    11/11/2014     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory          8.73
  5    06/18/2015      Highly Satisfactory               Satisfactory                10.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and provincial context. By project appraisal in 2012, Pakistan had been exposed
to internal and external security and political conflicts for many years. The major provinces/areas
affected by these conflicts were and remain Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Federally Administered
Tribal Areas (FATA), and Balochistan (KP/FATA/Balochistan). Multilayers of economic,
political, social, ethnic, and religious factors within and surrounding Balochistan contributed to
the highly complex landscape of conflicts and heightened security across these geographical areas.
The situation was still far from stable with the deteriorating rule of law. The very poor economic
and social indicators of Balochistan across all sectors bear witness to the years of poor
development.

2.      Sector context. Balochistan had always ranked the lowest in education indicators in
Pakistan. In 2010,1 national level net enrollment rates were 71 percent for male, 61 percent for
female, and 66 percent in total, whereas the corresponding numbers were only 68 percent, 40
percent, and 56 percent in Balochistan. The indicators for female enrolment were exceptionally
poor, especially at the rural level—only 33 percent at the primary level as opposed to 56 percent
in rural areas at national level. The rural female enrollment dropped to an abysmally low of 7
percent at the middle school level. The situation was seriously offtrack to achieve the
internationally committed national Education for All target for primary education.

3.       Supply-side constraints, due largely to the vast geographical area and poor public service
provision, have been the major educational issue. Almost 40 percent of 22,000 settlements in
Balochistan did not have schools. The average school size was small—50 students for primary,
170 students for middle, and 440 students for high school. Multigrade teaching was commonly
practiced due to lack of sufficient number of students, teachers, and school facilities. The
increasing conflict and worsening security situation was an added constraint in effective education
service delivery and children’s school participation in the province. School infrastructure and
facilities were largely nonexistent—9 percent schools were without any shelter,2 approximately,
57 percent schools had no drinking water; 46 percent no boundary wall; 52 percent no electricity;
and 29 percent without a toilet facility.

4.      To overcome the multifold educational difficulties, Balochistan had established a
community- driven school development and management model since 1992. The Balochistan
Education Foundation (BEF) initiative supported by the World Bank under the Balochistan
Education Support Project (BESP), established 649 schools since 2006 through active community
participation, engaging community in all aspects of school management.

5.     Rationales for Bank assistance. At the request of the government of Pakistan, the Bank
agreed to establish and administer a Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MTDF) to respond to the needs



1
    Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement Survey 2010/11.
2
    Education Statistics Report 2008-09, Academy For Education Planning and Management (AEPAM)



                                                      1
resulting from the crisis in the northwestern border areas of KP/FATA/Balochistan.3 The Bank has
a long-standing partnership with the government of Balochistan (GoB) in education, from the
Community Support Process program in 1992 to the recent Balochistan Education Foundation
Project (BEF/BESP). The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2015–19 supported the
priority of the GoB to restore citizens’ trust and improve provision of basic services at the
community level, for reducing the longer-term risk of conflict by increased responsiveness of the
state. The Bank’s Balochistan Development Needs Assessment, prepared in parallel with the
preparation of Promoting Girls' Education in Balochistan (PGEB), also set girls’ education and
community partnership as a priority.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.     The objective of the project is to improve access to education and retention of children in
schools, with a special emphasis on girls, in Balochistan.4

7.      Key performance indicators for the project are (a) number of children (girls and boys)
benefitting from newly established schools and constructed/improved facilities in selected schools;
(b) retention of children in project schools; and (c) percentage of schools with functional Parent
Teacher School Management Committees (PTSMCs) involved in monitoring of activities at school
level.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

8.      The PDO, PDO level indicators, or IO indicators were not formally revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The cohort of girls and boys at their primary and middle schools age in the selected schools
in the province of Balochistan were to be the main beneficiaries of the project. They would have
access to schools with better infrastructure as a result of Components A and B and access to
education in newly established schools under Component C, in areas where there were no schools
found within a 2 km radius. Communities and female teachers were also considered as
beneficiaries as they were to benefit from training and empowerment through the project. Lastly,
the officials of the Education Department were to benefit from technical assistance and experience
gained during project implementation.



3
  The overall objective of the MDTF is to support implementation of a program of reconstruction and development
aimed at recovery from the impact of the conflict and reducing the potential for renewed conflict and include
projects to promote enhanced, sustainable, and accountable delivery of basic services, including education, health,
and administration of justice. In the first phase, the MDTF received US$140 million in pledges from ten donors:
Australia, Denmark, Finland, European Union, Germany, Italy, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States, and
Sweden, of which US$10 million was allocated for the PGEB.
4
  A minor difference between the Project Paper (PP) and the Grant Agreement was observed. The Grant Agreement
says ‘in Balochistan’ while the PP says ‘in the province of Balochistan’. There is no substantive difference in the
meaning. This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) uses the one from the Grant Agreement.



                                                         2
1.5 Original Components

10.   The project consisted of the following four components as described in the Grant
Agreement and PP.5

              Component A (US$5 million) - Construction of building facilities for shelter-less
               girls schools (primary and middle). Construction of approximately 130 building
               facilities for selected shelter-less girls’ schools. The list of schools was to be finalized
               based on the established criteria, after a physical verification of the site and
               confirmation of availability of teachers and student enrolments. The communities
               around the new school facilities will be organized as PTSMCs to ensure local support
               for effective implementation and school improvements.

              Component B (US$2 million) - Provision of missing facilities to girls’ schools.
               Provision of missing facilities and equipment such as toilets, boundary walls,
               blackboards, furniture, and connection to public services (that is, drinking water and
               sewage), to approximately 200 girls' schools.

              Component C (US$1.6 million) - Establishment of new government primary
               schools with community participation. Establishment of approximately 150 gender-
               free primary schools in coordination/cooperation with the communities they will serve,
               including the merit-based recruitment of local teachers and the establishment of related
               PTSMCs.

              Component D (US$1.4 million) - Technical Assistance to the Education
               Department for implementation and monitoring at the district level. Establishment
               of the institutional framework for planning and implementation of project activities,
               including in relation thereto

               (a) the operation of the Provincial Coordination Committee;

               (b) the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU), responsible for the
                   recipient's and Project Implementing Entity’s compliance with the project's
                   safeguards, fiduciary, and monitoring of evaluation requirements;

               (c) the mobilization of PTSMCs as an innovative approach for community-government
                   partnerships;

               (d) the carrying out of a baseline survey for the verification of schools prioritized for
                   construction and missing facilities;

               (e) the design and supervision of construction activities under the project;

               (f) the commission of third-party validation assessments on the progress achieved in
                   implementing the project; and


5
    The following descriptions are mainly from Grant Agreement and complemented with additional text from the PP.


                                                         3
             (g) an impact evaluation of the project interventions.

1.6 Revised Components

11.      Components were not revised during the project implementation.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

12.     The project was not restructured. However, during project implementation, there were
some changes to the originally estimated target numbers of outputs to reflect the reality of what
could be reasonably accomplished. Component A coverage was reduced from 130 to 123 due to
inability to construct seven schools in specific conflict areas; Component B school coverage was
increased from 200 to 225 by utilizing savings6 generated under Component A; and the number of
new schools to be established under Component C was reduced from 150 to 143 due to non-
availability of qualified female teachers in certain communities or effective community
mobilization in certain communities. These adjustments resulted in a net increase in the total
number of beneficiary schools to be supported, from 480 schools to 491 schools.7 At closing, a
balance of US$806,679.87 remained unused8 and was cancelled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13.     Quality at Entry. Based on the assessments below, an overall rating for the quality at entry
is Satisfactory. The project was well prepared in accordance with the Rapid Response to Crises
and Emergency (OP/BP 8.00) to provide timely and needed educational support to the children in
Balochistan by addressing the most acute issues and constraints, which were access to education
and retention of students in school.

14.    Preparation. In anticipation of the fragile and heightened security situation of Balochistan,
the project was carefully designed by (a) reviewing the lessons of the past operations in
Balochistan; (b) considering the potential leverage and externalities of the impact given the
minimal and simple inputs; (c) prioritizing restoration of citizen’s trust as per the objectives of the
MDTF; and (d) assessing the relevance and feasibility of implementation, including safeguards
and fiduciary aspects as well as risks. Despite an emergency operation, the PGEB preparation was
backed by strong assessments, including fiduciary, environmental, economic and financial, and
technical assessments before submission to the Board.

15.     Design. A simple design was adopted by building on the lessons from former community-
led school establishment model. Departing from the BESP model of community engagement, this
project also focused on the government’s role in implementation since restoration of citizens’ trust

6
  Discussion of savings in sections 2.2 and 3.3.
7
  These adjustments did not require any official restructuring from the Bank side. However, the GoB required
revision of the PC-1 document since it entailed revision of procurement items.
8
  The amount of nondisbursement should be understood in the context of some delays in implementation and
generated savings due to cost-efficient civil works and monitoring activities. See sections 2.2 and 3.3 for more
details.



                                                          4
against the government was one of the key elements of the MDTF. The PGEB set the government
as the implementer9 and through the transparent processes and mechanisms of decision making, it
aimed to increase the accountability of government operation. Community involvement, as has
been used in former projects, was effective for increasing resilience even in areas with security
constraints. Preparation also considered lessons from the Punjab Education Sector Project and
Sindh Education Reform Project, especially on using multilayered supervision and monitoring
support, including third-party validations and mobile technologies to support information
collection and analysis.

2.2 Implementation

16.     Strong ownership of the GoB and diligent efforts of the PMU contributed to transparent
project implementation, with strong community and beneficiary participation. Despite the
continuous conflicts and the extremely difficult operating environment, the project was completed
without an extension. The highly unstable security situation across Balochistan and the initial low
capacity of the newly established PMU contributed to the slow start and the intermittent delays,
but these problems were overcome in the end.

17.    The transparent and participatory model of implementation was considered as one of the
key factors for the high success in the achievement of outcomes (see section 6) but contributed to
some delays during implementation. For example, the selection of the construction site was led by
beneficiaries according to the project design. This process generated commendable outcomes of
improved capacities from the communities with a resilient model of school management.
Communities and PMUs had to invest extra efforts during implementation to solve local level
disagreements.10

18.     By the end of two years, some savings were generated due to (a) lower costs of civil works
than original estimates, (b) cancellation of interventions in some conflict areas, (c) additional time
required for recruitment of teachers, and (d) exchange rate gains. The Provincial Steering
Committee met to take a decision to reallocate the savings for quick but meaningful interventions
and increased the number of Component B schools to 226.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

19.     M&E design. The M&E design was deliberately kept simple and suitable for this
emergency operation.11 Learning from past operations under security constraints, the design put in
place a mitigation scheme for alternative monitoring arrangements, including virtual reviews and



9
  The BESP model of community schools was implemented by the Balochistan Educational Foundation, a
semiautonomous agency.
10
   Grievance mechanism was also effective in providing accountability to the decision-making processes. The PMU
received about 100 grievance reports from communities during the project life. Consensus building among
community members was very important, so this mechanism was effective; however, it delayed implementation in
some cases.
11
   The Operations Policy and Country Services Guidance Note for Staff, ‘Ensuring a Results Orientation during
Project Preparation under OP/BP 8.00’ suggests using simple and actionable activities and in some cases, “it may be
that an output is all that can be reasonably expected.”


                                                         5
discussions, the use of third-party monitoring and verification, and the counterparts’ missions in
Islamabad.

20.    M&E implementation. The project effectively built the capacity of the government to
monitor project implementation using the government structure and introduced innovative
monitoring solutions. However, the implementation of M&E met with some difficulties in
ensuring the quality of information.

         (a) Strengths. The M&E mechanism was designed to enhance the government’s
             monitoring capacity, by appointing District Focal Persons (DFPs) in each of the target
             districts from the District Education Office for supervision of schools. This mechanism
             was effective for the sustainability of M&E beyond project closure and is already being
             used by another operation. Regular monitoring of PDO and Intermediate Outcome (IO)
             indicators through quarterly progress reports and verification through Third Party
             Monitoring (TPM) took place and were published on the project’s website. To
             overcome the difficulties of supervising the civil works activities in conflict areas
             during implementation, the PMU used Google Earth to monitor the progress of civil
             works, which was later verified by TPM.12 Establishment of baseline data during the
             first year was a major accomplishment by itself given the conflict nature and weak
             capacity of the government.

         (b) Weaknesses. Despite the mitigation measures which were planned for M&E, persistent
             insurgencies in some areas made effective data collection difficult. Low capacities of
             the key M&E agents, including DFPs, newly established school management, and the
             PMU, also added to the difficulty of collecting quality information. Newly established
             schools were not able to record information related to student flow, such as new
             entrants, repeaters,13 dropouts, and distinction between absenteeism and dropout, but
             only report gross enrollment.14 Though establishing a baseline data during the first year
             was a major accomplishment in this emergency operation, there seem to be mismatches
             in the baseline enrollment as identified by the Baseline Survey and what is reported in
             the Results Framework due to the delay in the survey. However, this shortcoming is
             not too detrimental to the evaluation of PDO performance as the credibility of
             information is ensured by the triangulation of data from various sources by this ICR
             (see section 3.2).

21.      M&E utilization. Third-party monitoring and verification were actively used to verify (a)
information provided for new school establishment, (b) female teacher qualifications, (iii) progress
of civil works components (Components A and B), (b) enrollment and retention outcomes, and (e)


12
   This was possible because of unique design of the newly constructed school buildings with its octagon shape. By
this the risk of fake school (or double dipping of schools with schools that other Development Partners (DPs)
support) is effectively prevented and monitored.
13
   Concept of repetition is very difficult to monitor in most rural schools in Balochistan since they tend to use multi-
grade teaching and teachers adjust flexibly depending on the student levels.
14
   Retention rates in these schools are therefore one of the indicators which was monitored by using pseudo-retention
rate (that is, not separating new entrants and retained students from previous year).



                                                           6
verify PTSMC and their activities. Reports were submitted to the PMU for taking corrective
actions accordingly.15

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

22.     The environmental category of the project was B, and the project triggered OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessment as the proposed construction of new girls’ schools, missing facilities,
and community schools may have potentially caused negative environmental and social impacts,
such as soil erosion and water and soil contamination. Overall, safeguards were well implemented.
Following the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, an Environmental and Social
Management Plan was developed and implemented by the contractors and monitored by the PMU.
DFPs regularly assessed and monitored compliance as part of regular monthly supervision visits.16

23.     Fiduciary management was considered overall satisfactory although some delays and
inadequate capacity were reported, especially at the initial stages. Delays were often related to
recruitment of staff, including financial management (FM) staff and internal auditors. In
procurement, post- procurement review identified minor issues, 17 but all were immediately
corrected. In FM, poor contract management was reported but it improved overtime. Audit reports
were submitted on time. Government financing, according to the interim unaudited financial report,
was PKR 2.4 billion (about US$23.5 million), including the original commitment of US$4.46
million planned for teacher salaries and other operating costs for project schools. As described in
the PP, the funds were channeled through the government accounting system, which could not
track school-specific payroll because budget and expenditure are recorded by the spending unit
that represents a cluster of schools. The interim unaudited financial report did not specify
government spending on project-specific schools, but there were also no funding issues in target
schools. 18

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

24.     Based on the successful implementation of the PGEB, the Global Partnership for
Education-Balochistan Education Project (GPE-BEP) for US$34 million became effective on
March 25, 2015, and a new European Union trust-funded project is in the pipeline as of October
2015. The design of the GPE project is significantly influenced by the PGEB, and most of the key
activities, including establishment of new schools, construction of school buildings and facilities,
and recruitment of teachers, will continue with the operational mechanisms developed by the

15
   For instance, 260 schools were confirmed by verification survey to have basic criteria for Component C support
out of 808 school applications; the appointment of a few female teachers initially selected were canceled after
verifying their official certification; and monitoring of PTSMC activities were verified through meeting minutes and
when these are not available, the PMU was instructed to improve the PTSMC activity management.
16
   Most environmental safeguard issues came up at the time of school site selection since communities tended to
donate land that are in flood-prone areas, farmlands, or forests that would require cutting trees. These were carefully
handled by the construction firm and the PMU.
17
   These include some incidences of missing contract numbers, not prenumbered requests for quotations,
advertisement in a relatively minor newspaper, and nondated completion reports by vendors.
18
   While the counterpart funding for project schools were not available as discussed in section 2.4., the team was
guided by Operations Policy and Country Services to discuss the counterpart funding in project-specific context
following the retirement of OP/BP 6.0.



                                                          7
PGEB. Since PGEB-supported schools are all government schools, the GPE, which covers all
districts in Balochistan, will naturally support the PGEB-supported schools. Institutional changes
and new operational models19 will be continued under the government operation and supported by
the same PMU.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

25.    The overall rating for the relevance of project objective, design, and implementation in the
present context is High based on the following assessments.

26.    Objectives. The project objective was consistent with CPS 2011–14 (53553-PK and
65286-PK) and CPS 2015–19 (84645-PK), which prioritize girls’ access to education. CPS 2015–
19 has sought to address sources of fragility and conflict, with an emphasis on restoring trust
between citizens and the governments of KP, FATA, and Balochistan.20 The project was consistent
with the Balochistan Education Sector Plan 2013–2018, which bases its strategies on EFA and the
Millennium Development Goals and other international commitments of Pakistan as well as the
National Education Policy 2009.

27.    Design. The components of the project were highly relevant for achieving the objectives.
The needs assessment of the Balochistan education sector 21 identified key factors of low
enrollment as weak public service provision and lack of physical access to schools and learning
environment. Components A, B, and C respectively dealt with different types of constraints: no
educational access (by Component C); insufficient and insecure physical learning spaces (by
Component A); and poor learning environment and lack of basic facilities (by Component B).
These interventions provided access to education and increased retention through increased
physical spaces, better learning environment, and increased sense of security and sense of
attachment to schools.

28.    Implementation. The implementation mechanism, operational arrangement, and targeting
mechanism were also highly relevant. The following aspects need to be highlighted as part of the
relevance of implementation: (a) targeting of districts and schools were evidence–based and used
transparent criteria; (b) new school site selection mechanism ensured community participation,
existence of out-of-school children, and sustainability of schools; (c) capacity building is
embedded in the processes, such as DFPs for monitoring; and (d) conflict risk mitigation is
properly designed by the use of third-party monitoring.




19
   See section 3.5 (b) for more information.
20
   This is also set as the goal of the MDTF for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, FATAs and Balochistan.
21
   World Bank. 2012. Balochistan Development Issues and Prospects. Funded by MDTF. Islamabad.



                                                     8
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

29.     The PDO is to improve access to education and retention of children in schools, with a
special emphasis on girls, in Balochistan. The performance of the project is rated as High against
its objectives and PDO indicators.

30.     Improving access to education. Access to education increased substantially in the target
school areas. Total number of beneficiaries (PDO 1) reached 38,920 as opposed to the
corresponding baseline of 29,726 students in 2012 in target schools,22 with a net increase of 9,194
students, which is 31 percent increase in all intervention schools (Table 1). Contribution of
Component C is the greatest in this respect since almost all the students who were brought into the
school under this component were new entrants to schools. 23 By the end of the project,
establishment of 143 new schools in former school-less communities led to an increased
enrollment of 6,809 students as against the target of 6,000 (Intermediate Results Indicator 4).24
Enrollment increased by 19 percent and 5 percent for Components A and B, respectively. 25

                   Table 1. Number of Students in the Baseline and End Line by Components
                                  Baseline           End line          Increase (#)         Increase (%)
         Component A                5,841              6,929               1,088                  19
         Component B               23,885             25,182               1,297                  5
         Component C                  0                6,809               6,809                  –
          Total                 29,726                38,920               9,194                  31
         Source: PGEB monitoring data.



22
   PDO 1 targets were not set in the PP or Grant Agreement. After baseline was conducted, this baseline of 10,500
students and target of 23,694 students for PDO 1 was set at The Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) No.
2. However, the list of baseline schools included 561 shelter-less schools from which Component A schools were
selected. The baseline 10,500 was based on this list of shelter-less schools, from which 5,841 was the enrollment
selected 130 schools and the remaining about 4,600 students were from the nonselected shelter-less schools. Since
one of criteria for selecting Component B schools was proximity to Component A schools, Component B schools
were selected after selection of Component A. For this reason, they were not identified at the time of baseline
survey. As against the final outcome of 38,920 beneficiaries, corresponding baseline obtained for this ICR, including
all Component B schools and schools that are additionally included in the last year after cost saving is identified, is
29,726 students. It is understood by the ICR author that the baseline of 10,500, by taking all enrollment of 561
shelter-less schools, was a proxy for 330 schools in the absence of other valid data (because Component B schools
were not selected yet), and using 23,694 for the target was in anticipation of adding Component B schools that could
be possibly large schools. While this raises an issue of M&E, it does not undermine the real achievements that the
project has made in Balochistan. Therefore, this ICR evaluates the contribution of the project by taking the end line
and comparing against the corresponding baseline for the finally selected schools. It also reviews the outcome
performance by considering the absolute size of outcome impact by the project and cross-checking against other
sources of information to contextualize the outcomes achieved, in addition to targets set for the indicators.
23
   There are very few cases where students transferred from a far school to the newly established school, but these
are extremely rare. More details are in the beneficiary feedback in annex 5.
24
   National EMIS reported that primary school enrollment was 670,143 and the number of out-of-school children
was 563,214 in 2013 (EFA report 2014). By using this number, additional 6,809 students means 1 percent increase
in primary school enrollment or 1.2 percent reduction in the number of out-of-school children in Balochistan.
25
   This method of calculation is used here because the M&E design monitors total number of beneficiaries enrolled
in the target schools without counting ‘additional new intake’.



                                                          9
31.     Improving retention of children in school. Retention rates of children, as monitored by
the PDO indicator, increased from 70 percent in the baseline26 to 86 percent by the end of the
project (PDO 2). This information is validated by an analysis of the Balochistan Education
Management Information System (BEMIS), which shows 85 percent retention rate between
2012/13 and 2013/14.27 Beneficiary feedback pointed out two reasons for increased retention rates:
(a) availability of physical space to sit and study and (b) increased teachers’ attendance rates, which
resulted from increased PTSMC involvement in school management in 100 percent28 of schools
(PDO 3), as verified by the TPM surveys.29

32.     Achievement and contributions toward higher-level objectives. The PGEB’s
contribution to higher-level objectives, as envisaged by the MDTF financing strategy, is also
significant. It demonstrated full government ownership of implementation and institutionalization
of evidence-based planning and decision making, rebuilt trust between communities and the
government, and contributed to the change in communities’ mindset toward education and
gender.30

3.3 Efficiency

33.     The overall efficiency of the PGEB intervention was High. In addition to a high Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) (18.7 percent), a number of noteworthy efficiency gains took place
under the project. Most importantly, the project was completed on time, within 3 years despite
continuous conflicts and insurgencies in the province. This, in itself, was a significant achievement.

34.      EIRRs. A cost-benefit analysis conducted at the time of the ICR shows a high economic
rate of return to the PGEB project. Considering the benefit generated by increased number of Grade
5 completers (as a result of increased intake and retention) and the reduced inefficiencies of the
system (which has been already observed by the project close), the EIRR was 18.7 percent,
indicating economic viability of the project (see more details in annex 3).

35.    Implementation design and operation. The implementation design of all the activities
were well thought out and proved efficient for the conflict situation on account of the following
reasons:


26
   The baseline for target schools is 70 percent. District-level retention rate was 80 percent, using the annual census
(BEMIS) report 2009/10 and 2010/11.
27
   Though the primary data source for this indicator is monitoring data, the BEMIS was used for calculation of the
baseline in the PP, and hence use of BEMIS data for cross-checking is relevant for ensuring the credibility of results.
The BEMIS data for school year 2014/15 was not yet available at the time of the ICR mission in September 2015.
Therefore, the retention rate is verified by using 2012/13 and 2013/14 data, which showed 85 percent retention rate
in target schools. Considering that construction of school buildings in many schools was completed in 2014/15
school year, the benefit of intervention is likely to be underestimating the actual benefit of the intervention.
28
   Some schools were dropped from the list after PTSMC training took place, so it is likely that more than 100
percent of project schools got functional PTSMC if those schools were still monitored after being dropped.
29
   Two major contributing factors for increasing teachers’ attendance rates are contract teachers and PTSMCs. The
contract teachers in newly established schools showed high motivation and high attendance rate, contributing to
consistent enrollment of students in schools. PTSMCs increased the accountabilities of schools and resource
management, including the teachers’ attendance.
30
   See section 3.5 for more details.



                                                          10
         (a) Reduced civil works cost. The following two factors contributed to reduction of civil
             works cost: (a) transparency of bidding process and (b) packaging civil works related
             components (Components A and B) by geographical areas. The transparent bidding
             mechanism increased the number of bidders sometimes to over 50 bidders per
             package. 31 School site selection was efficient—after selection, Component A and
             Component B schools were selected from the surrounding areas. This contributed to
             lowering the cost of material transportation, cost of supervision, and labor cost due to
             shortened time. It lowered monitoring cost as well.

         (b) Innovative approach to reduce start-up cost of new schools. Unlike the traditional,
             supply-led selection of school sites, Component C asked communities to apply for
             school establishment and required them to provide the site and two rooms for the first
             two years of operation. This eliminated the risk of constructing schools in the wrong
             place. 32 Around 143 schools were efficiently established in this manner with the
             Component C fund effectively oriented for improving the quality and ensuring smooth
             start-up through provision of teacher training, supervision, teacher salary and teaching
             materials. The actual cost of starting up and initial support for ensuring functional
             school operation was US$4,900 per school.33

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

36.    The overall outcome rating of the project is Highly Satisfactory based on high relevance,
high achievement of the PDO, and high efficiency, as discussed above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

37.    Social development and employment. For all the components, local communities played
an important role. Under the civil works activities, the use of local materials and local labor force
had a positive impact on the local economy. In addition, 260 female teachers gained employment
through the project.

38.     Influencing the mindset of communities, especially about gender: Establishment of
schools in communities had a significant impact on the mindset of the former school-less
communities. Establishment of schools lowered the barriers associated with distance, cost, distrust
against governments’ service provision, and mentality of households in sending girls (and boys)
to school. Female teachers hired for newly established schools in communities where no schools

31
   Anecdotal evidence shows traditional government tender of civil works attracted 2 to 3 bidders.
32
   The traditional approach of supply-driven school construction was recognized as a negative lesson in the past.
Schools that were constructed in wrong places, such as multiple schools in one community, were often abandoned
when there was no practical demand.
33
   The final cost of Component C was about US$706,000. The unit cost for each of the 143 established schools is
US$4,937. This includes, among other things, site selection and verification, community mobilization, PTSCM
training, teacher recruitment and training cost, and running cost for the first few years, including teacher salary,
materials, and supervision.


                                                         11
existed before created a new role model for girls in the communities, influencing perceptions
towards female role and employment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

39.     New operational models and culture of evidence-based decision making. The project
had a major impact on the decision-making process and created new operational models. Starting
with the evidence-based district selection process, the project introduced a series of evidence-based
decision making. Application and validation-based school site selection and competency-based
(test based) selection of female teachers increased the transparency of selection processes and these
became new operational models of the government. The GoB is starting on a recruitment system
reform by introducing test-based teacher selection mechanism for their regular operation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

40.     Uniting communities. The processes of school site selection, school establishment, and
PTSMC formation and operation resulted in a stronger unification of communities. Earlier,
community members used to have diverse opinions about girls’ education. However, through the
series of discussions, they made a joint decision to select school sites, elected PTSMC members,
and got involved in school management activities.

41.      Increased trust in the government. Increased transparency and accountability of
selection processes, including school site selection and teacher recruitment, increased communities’
trust in the government, contributing to achievement of the MDTF and CPS objectives.

42.     Setting up the stage for and catalyzing follow-up operations. One of the important
contributions of the PGEB is the operational experience of using the government system. This
approach strengthened the government’s capacity and generated operational experience and
education sector knowledge of Balochistan. Success of the PGEB built confidence in the
government and encouraged DPs to increase their support, attracting the subsequent GPE-BEP
project and a forthcoming European Union funded project. It also left a substantial stock of
operational knowledge such as the pool of qualified female teachers, a list of communities with
sufficient number of out-of-school children, and willingness to establish new schools.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

43.     A series of beneficiary interviews and anecdotal stories from the field consistently
supported the high impact of the project on their lives, especially in communities where no schools
existed before. Transparent and accountable school selection process, instead of political decision,
made positive changes to their mindsets. Communities are more supportive about girls’ education
and more trustful in the government’s new service delivery approach (annex 5).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

44.     The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is rated Significant based on
the following assessments:



                                                 12
       (a) Country risk. Continuous conflict and security issues in Balochistan can affect
           enrollment in supported schools.

       (b) Social risk. Communities were strengthened to establish schools and manage them
           through the PTSMC. This model is inherently risky as it is tied to how effective the
           communities continue to be.

       (c) Financing. Proper maintenance of infrastructure and facilities and operation of newly
           established schools are important for lasting impact on enrollment and retention. The
           lack of operational budgets at schools pose a risk. The newly established schools under
           Component C are supposed to graduate from interim arrangement after 2 years of
           operation, but whether the government can provide infrastructure to these schools is
           also a risk. Continuing the financing of contract teachers from the government’s own
           resource would also be a risk.

       (d) Mitigation of risks. Presence of the GPE-BEP project is the main factor for reducing
           the risk from High to Significant. The same PMU will continue to provide support to
           all 12 districts that were supported by the PGEB and can continue monitoring the
           PGEB-supported schools.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

45.    The Bank performance at entry is rated Satisfactory based on the following assessments:

       (a) The PDO and project design were highly relevant and remained so throughout the
           project period. The objective was aligned with the CPS, the government’s Education
           Sector Plan, and the strategic approach of Balochistan. The activities were designed
           based on the needs assessments and lessons learned.

       (b) Despite the emergency nature of this operation, the task team conducted timely and
           thorough assessments of fiduciary, safeguards, technical, economic, and institutional
           aspects and carefully incorporated lessons learned from the previous operation in
           Balochistan and other education operations in Pakistan.

       (c) To mitigate potential risks, alternative supervision arrangements, especially on M&E,
           were identified and proven effective during implementation. Community-focused and
           government-led implementation design fostered resilience to external disturbances and
           built capacities of communities and the government.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

46.    The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory based on the following:


                                               13
        (a) Regular supervision missions by an appropriate skill mix (education, procurement, FM,
            environment, and social) of experts and continuous interaction between the Islamabad-
            based task team and the government team in Quetta even during the time of heightened
            security problem the ISR ratings reflected the slow progress in the project during the
            first two years.

        (b) Effective and timely supervision and implementation supports of fiduciary and
            safeguards.

        (c) Close involvement of other DPs in the dialogue (United Nations International Children
            Education Fund, Australia - Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade); and

        (d) Some weakness in M&E support, especially in the support to conduct an impact
            evaluation and to collect more detailed M&E data for accurate calculation of indicators.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

47.     The overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory based on ratings for both quality at
entry and of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

48.    The GoB, which acted through the Secondary Education Department (SED), 34
continuously showed ownership and commitment to the project. Steering Committee and Project
Coordination Committee meetings were held regularly and upon to provide necessary guidance to
the PMU and to facilitate coordination among stakeholders, such as, for reallocation of the savings
generated. All the legal covenants were complied with. The SED has internalized the new
mechanism of school identification and test-based teacher selection, which were initiated by the
PGEB, showing ownership and sustainability of the project. The GoB made a commitment to pay
the salary of 260 contract teachers from their own resources and will reflect this in the
Supplementary Budget for FY2015–16.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

49.     The PMU in the Ministry of Education was defined as a responsible implementing agency
under the guidance of the SED. The project implementation was rated moderately satisfactory by
the first four ISRs and satisfactory by the fifth (final) ISR. Despite a slow start, the pace of

34
  The Grant Agreement was signed with the Economic Affairs Division of the government of Pakistan, and the
Project Agreement was signed with the GoB, by defining the GoB as the project implementing entity. Due to the
decentralized nature of administration and budgeting authorities, the GoB through the SED, acted on behalf of the
recipient as a responsible agency. Hence, the SED’s performance is evaluated here.


                                                        14
disbursement was largely consistent with the original forecast, and the quality of implementation,
including procurement, FM, and safeguard were rated ‘satisfactory’. Timely discussion was
initiated for reallocating funds between categories and quick action for amending the government’s
project document (PC1) was taken. Implementation of M&E was a positive achievement (that is,
the government’s monitoring capacity is built, baseline survey was completed during the first year,
and all the monitoring took place despite the conflict situation); however, difficulties associated
with baseline data collection and selection of baseline and target values can be considered as one
observed shortcoming (see section 3.2.).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

50.     The overall borrower performance is rated Satisfactory based on the satisfactory ratings of
the performance of the government and the implementing agency.

6. Lessons Learned

51.    Lessons for improving girls’ education. The communities’ strong sense of ownership of
schools contributed to enhancing girls’ education. Recruiting female teachers from the own
community contributed to increased comfort among community members and developed a great
role model for girls.

52.      Lessons for improving the targeting of service delivery. A community-led model of
needs identification provides a cost-effective solution to new school establishment, which can be
adopted in similar, sparsely-populated places. In Balochistan, where low population density and
sparse population is a constraint for service delivery, the PGEB tackled the problem by soliciting
applications from communities and surveying communities to verify the actual needs of the set
criteria. 35 This approach enabled fast establishment of schools in communities, which have
commitment and willingness to contribute to education, and increased access of children to school.

53.   Lessons for emergency operations. The PGEB provided good lessons for operating under
emergency and high security constraints:

         (a) A simple, clear, and well-focused project design is key to success, especially in an
             emergency operation and, for low capacity countries.

         (b) Implementation by the government, as opposed to nongovernmental organizations or
             other parties, greatly contribute to the sustainability of operations and building trust
             among citizens.

         (c) Preparation of alternative monitoring arrangements is important for continuous
             implementation and monitoring in emergency operation. The PP included some
             fallback plans for monitoring in case of deteriorating security, and these proved to be
             very effective.


35
  Including existence of at least 20 students in the community, nonavailability of schools within 2 km radius,
donation of the land and 2 temporary rooms for 2 years, and availability of qualified teachers in localities.


                                                         15
       (d) Flexibility of project design toward achievement of objectives and quick decisions
           would ensure timely implementation and maximization of benefits. When it was found
           that there would be savings due to cancellation of some activities for security reasons,
           the PMU took an initiative to revise the procurement plan and the GoB made a quick
           decision to reallocate funds. Additional outputs, as listed in annex 2, contributed to
           increase the beneficiaries and project outcomes by efficiently utilizing the available
           funds.

       (e) Accountability and transparency are keys to restoring citizens’ trust. Transparent
           selection of schools and teachers increased trust among citizens toward the government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

54.     The contents of the ICR were discussed with a range of stakeholders who were involved
in the preparation and implementation of the PGEB during the ICR mission in September 2015.
The Bank ICR team, the government team, and the project beneficiaries exchanged views on the
relevance and impact of the operation and reviewed performance and lessons learned.
Subsequently, the draft ICR was shared with the GoB for review and comment. The Bank received
a copy of the GoB’s ICR and its key findings are summarized in annex 7. At the time of ICR
approval, comments had not yet been received.

(b) Cofinanciers

NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NA




                                               16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$, million equivalent)

                                             Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate          Percentage of
              Components
                                              (US$, millions)           (US$, millions)               Appraisal
Component A                                          5.00                      4.99                      99.7
Component B                                          2.00                      2.14                      106.8
Component C                                          1.60                      0.82                      51.2
Component D                                          1.40                      1.20                      85.9
Total Baseline Cost                                 10.00                      9.14                      91.4
Exchange rate fluctuation                                                      0.05
Total Project Costs                                   10.00                    9.19                       91.9
Counterpart Funding                                    4.46                   23.4836                      –
Total Financing                                       14.46                   32.67                        –

(b) Financing

                                                                     Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                    Type of                                        Percentage of
               Source of Funds                                       Estimate         Estimate
                                                  Cofinancing                                       Appraisal
                                                                   (US$, millions) (US$, millions)
Borrower                                                –               4.46           23.48           526.4
MDTF for Crisis Affected Areas of
                                                        –               10.00              9.19               91.9
NWFP/FATA/Balochistan




36
  As explained in section 2.4, the counterpart funding includes salaries for all schools in target district. The
appraisal estimate included estimates only for the project schools that were to be selected.


                                                            17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                           Table 2.1. Outputs by Component, Based on Indicators
                  Intermediate Results                    Target          Actual            Remarks
   Component A: Construction of shelter-less girls’ schools
                                                                                    Activity canceled in 7
          Number of shelter-less primary and middle girls’
    1                                                           130        123      schools due to security
          schools provided with adequate infrastructure
                                                                                    problem.
   Component B: Missing facilities for girls' schools
                                                                                    Number increased by
          Number of primary and middle girls’ schools
    2                                                           200        226      using the unused and
          provided with missing facilities
                                                                                    saved funds.
   Component C: Establishment of new primary schools with community
   participation
                                                                                    Unmet because (a) 7
          Number of candidates for female teacher post                              schools did not become
          identified and successfully contracted for newly                          functional and (b) some
    3                                                           300        260
          established government, community-supported                               schools only had one
          schools                                                                   qualified teacher
                                                                                    available.
    4   Number of children enrolled in the new schools  6,000    6,809              Target exceeded
        Number of new government primary schools                                    7 schools did not become
    5   established based on approved policy and         150      143               functional due to security
        protocol for community supported schools                                    issues.
        Teacher attendance rate in community-managed                                Verified by third-party
    6                                                    90        90
        schools                                                                     valuation
   Component D: Technical Assistance to the Education Department for
   implementation and monitoring at the district level
                                                                                    PTSMC of 473 schools
          Number of staff and PTSMC members trained
    7                                                          1,880      3,092     trained. Verified by
          through on-job support
                                                                                    third-party valuation.
          Performance reports generated including
                                                              QPR 12      QPR 12
    8     quarterly progress reports and independent
                                                              TPV 2       TPV 2
          monitoring reports
                                                                                    System establishment
                                                                                    was the target. The
          System established to monitor school                Number        136     actual value indicates
    9
          construction                                        of visits    visits   usage of the system after
                                                                                    establishment of the
                                                                                    system.
        Note: QPR = Quarterly Progress Reports; TPV = Third-party Valuation.
                     Table 2.1. List of Additional Outputs Using the Savings Generated

                     Activities                                                     Quantity
              1    Tube wells                                                 23 schools
              2    School furniture                                           126 schools
              3    Playground landscaping                                     114 schools
              4    Electricity connection                                     100 schools
              5    Early Childhood Education (ECE) training                   430 teachers
              6    ECE kits                                                   326 schools
              7    Student bags                                               25,000 students



                                                        18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

     (a) Economic Analysis

1.       The benefits of the PGEB, based on the performance of the three-year implementation, are
projected to far exceed the costs, with an EIRR of 19.0 percent, indicating the economic viability
of this project. The intervention led to an increase of enrollment and increased retention rates at
all grades of primary education. Increased enrollment resulted from the establishment of new
schools and provision of female teachers and the improvement of school infrastructure and
facilities. Improvement in retention was mainly due to improvement in school learning
environment. Assuming a population growth rate of 1.5 percent in the project areas, the
intervention will provide opportunities for cumulative 108,680 students in the 143 newly
established schools over the next 20 years since the beginning of project, compared to a
counterfactual case without the PGEB intervention. In addition, the improvement in retention rate
in all beneficiary schools will result in an increased number of Grade 5 completers by 88,475 in
comparison with the without-project scenario.

2.       The cost-benefit analysis included two streams of economic benefits, which are (a)
increased productivity of educated children and (b) reduced inefficiencies and cost-savings due to
improved retention rate.37 For the simplicity of the analysis, this does not include other longer-
term positive externalities.38 On the cost stream, (a) the PGEB investment cost, (b) increased salary
bill for teachers recruited by the PGEB and additional teachers needed for in the future to support
increased students, and (c) the maintenance cost of civil works are included.39 Detailed results of
simulation and assumptions used for year 4 onwards are described in Error! Reference source
not found.Error! Reference source not found.

3.      A sensitivity analysis of the economic benefit is also conducted (Error! Reference source
not found.), by changing values for two parameters: (a) productivity premium and (b) improved
retention rates from year 4 onwards. Productivity assumptions are PKR 3,000 for the base scenario
and PKR 1,000 and PKR 5,000 for low and high scenarios, respectively. For improved retention
assumption, 1.0 percent improvement per year from year 4 is the base scenario, and 0.5 percent
and 2.0 percent are for low and high scenarios, respectively. The EIRR reaches 29.1 percent if
both parameters are in high scenario while it goes below 10 percent if both parameters fall under
low scenario. The improved retention is not too difficult given the low start of the retention rate
and rapidly changing community and school environment as already observed during the first three
years of implementation. However, lack of wage employment opportunities in rural villages
remains a concern for the productivity premium. While productivity does not necessarily mean

37
   Reduced foregone earnings as a result of early entry on time to school and reduced travel time can be also
considerable and quantifiable immediate economic benefits that have been reported by beneficiary feedback (annex
5), but these are not included for implication of the assessment.
38
   Longer-term positive externalities considered from the interventions include, for example, increased social
indictors such as reduced child mortality rate and increased child health attributable to educated mothers, reduced
fertility rate, increased social stability and reduced rate of crimes.
39
   Cost possibly borne by the communities at the time of school establishment (Component C) is not included since
anecdotal stories show that communities usually provided rooms and land that were not regularly used, which means
substantial rent cost by donating the spaces was not incurred. Also, counterpart funding is not included as part of the
cost since this cost-benefit analysis focuses on additional intake and improved retention based on additional
investments.


                                                          19
wage income but agricultural productivity and household economic activities, it is known that
opportunities for jobs and economic activities are important pull factors for households to send
their children to school, and thus, important areas to improve.

                          Table 3.1. Summary of Cost and Benefit Streams and EIRR

                                                           Years since Project Started
                                     Year 1    Year 2      Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year 19   Year 20    Program
                                     2013      2014         2015                                                Total
 OUTCOMES
 Number of schools established          –        43            100     143       143        143       143         –
 Number of new students in              –       1,720         4,000   5,720     5,720      5,720     5,720     108,680
    newly established schools
 Estimated number of female          30,576    32,879      37,668     41,582   45,011     80,154     82,398        –
    students
 [counerfactual] Estimated           30,576    31,847      33,003     33,918   34,513     43,149     43,797        –
    number of female students
    w/o project scenario
 Estimated number of male            1,240      1,998         3,490   5,201     6,558     12,910     13,241        –
    students
 [counterfactual] Estimated          1,240      1,310         1,392   1,444     1,473      1,842     1,870         –
    number of male students w/o
    project scenario
 Increased number of Grade 5            –         –           134      216       325       9,476     10,118     88,475
    graduates
                                                      (real US$, thousands)
 BENEFIT STREAM
 Increased earnings of graduates        –         –            48      78        117       3,411     3,642      31,851
 Reduced cost per graduate due to       –         –            87      146       228       9,006     9,770      80,229
    increased inefficiency
 Total Benefits                         –         –           136      224       345      12,418     13,413    112,080
 COST STREAM
 Project cost                        1,000      4,000         4,200     –         –          –         –         9,200
 Increased teacher salary for          –          –             –      180       360        360       360        6,300
    contract teachers hired during
    the project
 Increased teacher salary due to        –         –            –       126       275       1,083     1,116      14,230
    increased students
 Increased maintenance cost for         –         –            –        –         5          5          5         77
    civil works
 Total Costs                          1,000     4,000       4,200      306       639      1,447      1,480      28,808
 Net Benefits                        (1,000)   (4,000)     (4,064)     (82)     (294)     10,970     11,932     83,272
                                                                                                      IRR       19.0%
                                                                                NPV at discount rate of 10%     12,535
 Note:
 For benefit stream:
 Grade 1 enrollment increases at 1.5 percent natural population growth rate plus the number of seats created by school
 establishment (40*143 schools) per year.
 Retention rates to Grade 1–5 improve 5 percent every year based on the improvement from 70 percent to 86 percent
 according to the PDO; 1 percent thereafter.
 Difference in productivity between Grade 5 completers and illiterates is worth PKR 3000 (US$30) per month (base
 scenario).
 Benefit potentially generated from more number of basic, secondary, and university graduates due to more completers
 of Grade 5 is not included. (This is a factor for underestimating benefit.)
 Years invested per student is calculated by standard cohort reconstruction method.


                                                         20
 Unit cost per student in the project schools is assumed to be (cost of teacher + operating cost which is half of teacher
 salary) divided by number of students.
 For cost stream:
 Annual maintenance cost is calculated as 0.3 percent of total value of the building annually from year 5.
 Salary includes that for female teachers hired and additional teachers required due to increased number of students
 (assuming PKR 10,000 per month – US$100 per month – US$1,200 per year).
 The project will be for 30 months. So, the assumption is, half of the required salary in year 3 will be financed by
 project.
 Student teacher ratio is assumed to remain consistent over time.
                                      Table 3.2. Sensitivity Analysis of EIRR
                                                                      Productivity Premium
                                                Low scenario             Base scenario           High scenario
                                                (PKR 1,000)              (PKR 3,000)             (PKR 5,000)
                         Low scenario
                                                     9.3%                    12.4%                   15.0%
                        (0.5%)
  Improved               Base scenario
  efficiency from                                    16.0%                   19.0%                   21.5%
                        (1.0%)
  year 4
                         High scenario
                                                     22.9%                   26.2%                   29.1%
                        (2.0%)

     (b) Financial Analysis

4.      Public education expenditure in Balochistan is on a gradual rise to 20.8 percent of total
expenditure of Balochistan in 2013/14 (Table 3.3). It is expected to be 22 percent of budget in
2015/16 and reached PKR 38.3 billion. The contribution of the PGEB is 0.7 percent to 1.2 percent
of total education expenditure between 2012/13 and 2014/15, indicating relatively small fiscal
impact. However, its contribution to primary development expenditure is significant – 33 percent
of primary education capital expenditure in 2013/14 and 26 percent in 2014/15. The PGEB’s
contribution is 10–18 percent of total foreign assistance during this period. In sum, the PGEB had
an important contribution to primary education development in Balochistan where foreign support
is limited.

                Table 3.3. Trend of Public Education Expenditure in Balochistan (PKR million)
                                               2010/11      2011/12     2012/13    2013/14     2014/15     2015/16
                                                                                               Revised
                                                Actual       Actual     Actual     Actual                  Budget
                                                                                               Budget
  GoB Total                                 133,779 145,723 154,727 173,591                        220,249
                                                                                               333,686
              Revenue expenditure            17,946     21,635    25,540    28,712                 38,327
                                                                                                28,955
              Capital expenditure            1,581       2,866    2,168      7,364                 10,018
                                                                                                7,783
  Education
  Sector      Total  expenditure            19,527      24,501    27,708    36,076                 48,345
                                                                                                36,738
              Percentage recurrent in
                                              91.9        88.3     92.2       79.6       78.8        79.3
              education expenditure
  Education in total GoB expenditure (%)      14.6        16.8     17.9       20.8       11.0        22.0
  Source: Controller General of Accounts Financial Statements 2010–2013; Department of Finance Budget for
  2015/16.
  Note: 2014/15 Revised budget includes one-off PKR 150 billion development budget transfer from the federal
  government.




                                                          21
 Table 3.4. Trend of Public Education Expenditure in Balochistan and Contribution of PGEB (US$, million)
                                                 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14          2014/15      2015/16
                                                  Actual Actual Actual Actual Revised Budget Budget
                  Revenue expenditure               176      212    250       281           284          376
   Education Capital expenditure                     16       28     21        72            76           98
      Sector          of which for primary            –       –       –         9            17           19
                  Total expenditure                 191      240    272       354           360          474
Foreign funded development budget for the GoB                       21.0      16.5          36.0         33.2
PGEB's contribution
  Approximate amount (US$, million)                                 2.0       3.0            4.5
    % in GoB’s foreign funded development budget                     10        18            12
    % in total education expenditure                                 0.7       0.8           1.2
   % in total primary education capital expenditure                   -        33            26
Source: Controller General of Accounts Financial Statements 2010–2013; Department of Finance Budget for 2015/16.
Note: U.S. dollar calculated by using the exchange rate of US$1 = PKR 102, based on Table 3.3. Primary education
capital expenditure for 2013/14 is revised estimates.




                                                      22
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                                   Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                    Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Umbreen Arif                Senior Education Specialist             SASED      Team leader
Surendra K. Agarwal         Consultant                              SASED
Anwar Ali Bhatti            Financial Analyst                       SACPK
Martin M. Serrano           Senior Counsel                          LEGES
Javaid Afzal                Senior Environmental Specialist         SASDI
Mohammad Omar Khalid        Consultant                              SASDI
Huma Ali Waheed             Operations Officer                      SASED
Ayesha Khan                 E T Consultant                          SASED
Aristeidis I. Panou         E T Consultant                          LEGOP
Samina Mussarat Islam       Consultant                              SASDS
Syed Waseem Abbas Kazmi     Financial Management Specialist         SARFM
Ali Ansari                  Consultant                              SASED
Supervision/ICR
Umbreen Arif                Team Leader                             GEDDR      Team leader
Rehan Hyder                 Sr. Procurement Specialist              GGODR
Syed Waseem Abbas Kazmi     Sr. Financial Management Specialist     GGODR
Javaid Afzal                Sr. Environment Specialist              GENDR
Martin M. Serrano           Sr. Counsel                             LEGES
Mohammad Azhar Ul Haq       Program Assistant                       SACPK
Mohammad Omar Khalid        Consultant                              GENDR
Samina Mussarat Islam       Consultant                              CPKI3
Shinsaku Nomura             Economist                               GEDDR      ICR team leader

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               US$, thousands (including travel
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending
                            Total:                  0                              0
Supervision/ICR
                            Total:                  2                          7,329.60




                                               23
Annex 5. Result of Beneficiary Consultations

1.       This annex aims to provide feedbacks from beneficiaries. At the time of the ICR mission
in September 2015, the security situation did not permit the members to travel to the field.
Consultations with the beneficiaries took place by inviting household members, students, PTSMC
members, and recruited female teachers to Quetta, the capital city of Balochistan. In addition,
beneficiaries’ views are collected by the PMU and reported in their monitoring reports and videos
(http://dai.ly/x2esbvi) are also fed into this summary.

2.     Outcomes of the PGEB:

       (a) Components A and B. Construction of shelter-less schools and facilities gave students
           physical space and security; better and more comfortable learning environment; and
           most importantly, stronger sense of attachment.

       (b) Component C. Establishment of new schools, by using a very transparent mechanism
           (that is, application by community, rather than politician’s nomination of location),
           gave communities a strong sense of ownership. Children, if they were permitted by
           parents, used to start going to school in different villages (2–3 km away) at the age of
           8 to 10 years. However, the presence of school in their own community reduced the
           starting age of school-going children to 4–5 years (including KG class). The number of
           enrolled children in the community increased from 2 or 3 children to 40 to 50 children
           and is continuously increasing as older children stay in school and new children are
           coming in.

       (c) Component C. Recruitment of female teachers from the community had a major
           impact because unavailability of ‘trusted’ teachers was always an issue. Communities
           trust the teacher as they are competitively selected.

       (d) Challenges and next steps. School teachers and communities started to see next steps.
           The PTSMC members are keen on increasing enrollment by visiting parents of still out-
           of-school children (mostly overaged). Teachers are starting to focus on teaching quality,
           especially in the challenge of teaching in multigrade class.

3.     Impact and changes brought to communities:

       (e) Availability of schools changed life in the communities. Idle children have started
           coming to school with parents’ mindsets gradually changing to encourage girls’
           education. Traditionally, distance to the nearest school, a sense of mistrust against
           outsiders, and lack of employment prospects were major reasons for not encouraging
           education by many parents. However, all these barriers are taken away by
           establishment of a school in the community and having a female teacher there.

       (f) Girls start seeing a new role model in the female teacher from their own community.
           Girls might start talking about future dreams as they know education unlocks their
           future potentials.




                                                24
(g) Trust in the government emerged for the first time. People from marginalized
    communities, where no schools existed before, had a very low trust in the government.
    However, transparent school site selection process and regular monitoring and support
    from government officers (DFPs) started to increase communities’ trust in the
    government.




                                       25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Feedback from beneficiaries are documented in annex 5. Viewpoints and evidence from
implementing agencies, consulting firms and government officials, have been incorporated in the
main text. No additional stakeholder workshop were conducted.




                                              26
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The government’s Project Completion Report embodies the context of the project,
achievements of the project including outputs and outcomes, issues and challenges, and key
lessons learned from project implementation between September 2012 and June 30, 2015.

Achievements

2.     The project provided buildings to 123 shelter-less schools and provided missing facilities
such as boundary walls, toilets, and water facilities for 226 schools. Around 143 new primary
schools were established and 260 teachers recruited with two teachers for each school. PTSMCs
for 480 schools were formed and trained to ensure ownership at the community level.

3.       Enrollment increased significantly in project schools during three project cycle years. In
2012–13, enrollment under Components A and B schools was 29,726 and in 2013–14, it increased
up to 31,101. At the end of the project in June 2015, the total enrollment for Components A and B
was 32,111. Under Competent C, 143 new schools were established in 2014–15 with enrollment
of 6,101. An increase in enrollment of these schools occurred and the total enrolment was
maintained as 6,809 till June 2015 under this component. Indeed, as a whole, the total enrollment
in all project schools under all components was maintained at 38,920 till June 2015.

4.     Conversely, the project achieved the PDO objectives considerably as the retention rate
increased from 70 percent to 86 percent and the enrollment increased from 29,72640 to 38,920. All
the PTSMCs were made operational during the course of the project cycle.

5.     Overall, the project remained effective as it brought social and developmental changes at
the community level. The completion of project activities within proposed time frame is the
evidence of the efficiency of the project. However, the effective use of the funds resulted in savings,
which enabled the project to work on additional plan for the schools.

6.     Under the additional plan, small tube wells were installed in 23 schools; 126 schools were
provided furniture; in 126 schools of Component A, landscaping of 114 schools were completed;
100 shelter-less schools were provided with the facility of electricity; and teacher training was
conducted for 430 teachers through the Provincial Institute for Teacher Education with the
provision of ECE kits to 326 schools. Around 25,000 school bags were distributed in project
schools in 12 focus districts.

7.     The PMU has made firm progress to accomplish all activities under the project. The PMU
developed a very efficient monitoring and complaint redress mechanism to facilitate the
complainants and to successfully monitor all project activities. During the course of the
implementation of the project, 136 visits were made by the monitoring team. On the other hand,
the PMU also launched the project website to upload the progress on it for wider sharing and also
to address complaints.

8.      As a part of project implementation, a few lessons learned would be expected to guide
future reforms across the province as the firm commitment and ownership of the government will

40
     See the footnote under section 3.2, which discusses the baseline value.


                                                            27
enable projects to accomplish their target within the time frame and in an efficient way. While the
innovative design of newly constructed school buildings and the role of DFPs remained dynamic,
the formulation of criteria for various educational units, that is, teachers, DFPs, and PTSMCs
selection criteria, can be used for any upcoming project. On the other hand, the prioritization of
districts based on established criteria and the recruitment of the teachers on merit and on contract
enabled the merit and sustainable system in the education department. However, mobilization and
engagement of PTSMCs, will definitely ensure governance at community level.

9.     Overall, the Bank supervised the project on various aspects of planning, implementation,
and monitoring as missions were conducted regularly and recurrent coordination remained with
the PGEB staff and other stakeholders. As a whole, the performance of the Bank, the government,
and the PGEB were up to the mark.

10.    Issues and challenges:

       (a) Service delivery. The large geographic spread, low population density, poor
           infrastructure, and weak communication systems created problems for the team to carry
           out monitoring activities. The PGEB team handled these issues in innovative ways by
           establishing a mechanism to use the services of district education officials such as DFPs.
           This mechanism helped the PMU maintain coordination and communication with
           stakeholders at all tiers of education and communities at the district level.

       (b) Unavailability of reliable data and information. Unavailability of reliable data was
           a key issue at project commencement. A baseline survey was conducted to verify the
           BEMIS report which was used for school selections, but it caused some delays in the
           initial selection process.

       (c) Decision-making process. At the start of the project, PC-1 of the project was reviewed
           and proposed to be revised to align with the scope and cost of the project.

       (d) Social constraints. Due to the community-driven mechanism under Component C, the
           project team faced issues in recruitment of teachers and site selection. In various places,
           the PTSMCs had conflicts among themselves and it created hurdles to complete the
           tasks on time.

       (e) Security constraints. Security remained a high risk and the situation affected the
           progress of project implementation. The project used alternative mechanisms to ensure
           regular supervision of PGEB activities.


11.    Lessons learned:

       (a) Government commitment and ownership. Strong government commitment and
           ownership is critical for successful implementation and sustainability of service
           delivery models which make use of mechanisms outside the public sector.

       (b) Innovative design for school. The uniquely designed schools have not only provided
           shelter to children but the beautiful design of the building has attracted the community


                                                 28
   to enroll their children. Enrollment in the (former) shelter-less schools had been
   growing significantly.

(c) Dynamic role of DFPs. The DFPs had a very important role in the implementation and
    monitoring of the project. Their involvement in project activities not only made the
    project successful but also enhanced the capacity of the DFPs to have good knowledge
    of project implementation and procedures, which helps in capacity building of the SED.

(d) Formulation of criteria for various activities. Formulation of school establishment
    criteria, teacher selection criteria, and various terms of reference are useful and assist
    in coping with political pressures in selection processes.

(e) Prioritization of districts based on established criteria. The SED did not have a
    process to short list infrastructure needs from a large pool of shelter-less schools. The
    project identified the set of basic criteria for short-listing districts and schools.
    Contracts for civil works was packaged with missing facilities in nearby schools to
    ensure efficiency in construction and monitoring.

(f) Establishing a system of community engagement in school siting and identification
    of teachers. As a result of political interferences and poor planning, schools were often
    built in wrong locations, teachers appointed were non-local and faced mobility
    challenges. Nonfunctional and underutilized schools had created a huge fiscal burden
    on the education sector. The new system of community engagement was effective to
    reach more deserving and dedicated communities.

(g) Recruitment of teachers on contract basis. Politicization of the teaching force had
    resulted in poor hiring procedures and low accountability of teachers before the project.

(h) Mobilizing PTSMCs. Community members were organized as PTSMCs and
    supported functions of accountability and management of schools at the community
    level. Such empowerment of communities can lead to high levels of ownership.




                                         29
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

A. World Bank Project Documents

      PGEB Aide Memoires (Oct 2011, Dec 2011, Mar 2013, Nov 2013)
      CPS for Pakistan for FY2011–14: Report No. 53553-PK (2010) and 65286-PK (2011);
       and CPS for FY2015–19: Report No. 84645-PK. (2014)
      Balochistan Development Issues and Prospects. Funded by Multi-Donor Trust Fund
       Islamabad (2012)
      Post Crisis Needs Assessment (PCNA) - KB and FATA
      MDTF for PK, FATA, and Balochistan 2010-2011 Financing Strategy
      Other Project Documents for Balochistan Education: GPE-BEP PAD (Report No.
       PAD910). PAD and ICR for BESP (Report No. 34999-PK, and ICR00003246)
      Emergency PP for PGEB, on June 14, 2012
      Grant Agreement, Grant No. TF012826-PK, September 12, 2012, and Project Agreement
       (negotiation draft)
      PGEB ISRs 1–5 (2013-2015)
      Operational Policies OP 8.00. (2014)

B. Project Documents and Data

      Balochistan Education Management Information System (BEMIS) 2012-13 and 2013-14
       databases
      Centre for Research and Development – Balochistan and Linkages for Resilience and
       Development Consortium. 2014. PGEB TPG Study (Round 1) Report
      Centre for Research and Development – Balochistan. 2013. PGEB Project Baseline
       Survey Final Report
      PGEB PMU. Project Completion Report (Draft)
      PGEB PMU. Quarterly Monitoring Reports. 2012–2015
      PGEB PMU. Annual Reports. 2013 and 2014
      Steering Committee and Project Coordination Committee meeting minutes
      Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework for MDTF (2010)
      Ex Post Review of Contracts Awarded under PGEB

C. Other Documents

      Education for All 2015 National Review Report: Pakistan. Islamabad Pakistan. June 2014
      Government of Balochistan. 2012. Balochistan Education Sector Plan 2013–2018.
       Developed by Policy Planning Implementation Unit, Education Department of
       Government of Balochistan




                                             30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33460R


                                                                                             PA K I S TA N
                                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                            MAIN ROADS
                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                     RIVERS                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                  65E                                                           70E                              TAJIKISTAN                              75E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CH I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ka
                                                                                                                                                                        h          ra                K2

                                                                                                                                                                  K  us NORTHERN       k o (Mt.     Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                          r a (8,611 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Austen)

                                                                                                                                                              d u          ARE AS
                                                                                                                                                                           AREAS              m
                                             PAKISTAN                                                                                                      i n Chitral            I nd s
                                                                                                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ra
                                                                                                                                                         H                                            ng
                                                                                                                                                                    KHYBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
 35N                                                                                                                                                                                        Approximate
                                                                                                                                                                                           Line of Control
                                                                                                                                                              PAKHTUNKHWA
                                                                                                                                                                           Saidu

                                                                                                                                To                                                           Muzaffarabad                     Kargil
                                                                                                                               Kabul                                                                         Srinagar
                                                                                                                                                            Peshawar
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jammu
                                                                                                                                                                                       ISLAMABAD             and Kashmir
                                                                                                                                                                                       Rawalpindi
                                                                                                                                                    Kahat
                                                                                                                                                                     FED. CAPITAL
                                                  AFGH
                                                  AF     ANI
                                                     G H AN I S TAN                                                                Bannu
                                                                                                                                                                       TERRITORY
                                                                                                                                                                      ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                           lum
                                                                                                                                                                        Jhe                  Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gujranwala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mandi




                                                                                                                                                                                 ab
                                                                                                                                       D.I. Khan                                 n
                                                                                 To                                                                                          Che
                                                                              Kandahar
                                                                                                                        Zhob                                                                            Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                       Faisalabad

                                                                                                                                                                                        vi
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ra
                                                                                         Chaman
                                                                                                                 Zhob                                     PUNJAB                                           To                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bhatinda         Ludhiana
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sahlwal

 30N                                                                                         Quetta
                                                                                                                               D.G. Khan                      Multan           tlej                                           30N
                                                                                                                                                                             Su
                                                                                                                                                    us
                                                                                                                                                 Ind




  To
Kerman                                                                                                                                                         Bahawalpur
                            Nok Kundi
                                                              B A L O C H I S TA N
                                                                                  Surab                                                            rt
                                                                                                                                                se
ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                            e
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIA
                                                                                                                               r




   OF To                                                                                                            Ranipur
                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                          h




                                                                  ng
                                                              e




                                        Panjgur
  IRAN Khash
                                                                                                                        T




                                                              a
                                                           nR
                                                                          i
                                                                     s hka




                                                     kra
                                                Ma
                                                                                                          Moro
                                                                  Ma




                                            l
   To                    Turbat   C e ntr a                                       Bela
                                                                                                                 SINDH
 Kerman
                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                           Jodhpur

                    Gwadar
                                     Pasni                                                                    Hyderabad
 25N                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25N

                                                                                 Karachi                  Thatta    Badin
                                                                                                     us
                                                                                                  Ind




This map was produced by
                                                                                                                        Rann of Kutch
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                  Arabian                          Sea
colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                              0      50       100      150 200 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                             0              50         100        150 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
acceptance of such
boundaries.                                           65E                                                                          70E                                                                                  75E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOVEMBER 2010
