               Document of
            The World Bank




                                       Report No: 29375-VN

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                (IF-N0130)

                  ON A

                 CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR136.6 MILLION
     (US$195.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                 TO THE

    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                  FOR A

SECOND HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT




               June 30, 2004

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                          VND 1 = US$ .0000645
                           US$ 1 = VND 15,497

                         FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     - December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP      Already Affected People
AC       Asphalt Concrete
BOQ      Bill of Quantities
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DMS      Detailed Measurement Survey
DOSTE    Department of Science Technology and Environment
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
HRP1     Highway Rehabilitation Project
HRP2     Second Highway Rehabilitation Project
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IRI      International Roughness Index
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
JV       Joint Venture
MOT      Ministry of Transport
MOSTE    Ministry of Science Technology and Environment
MTFP     Mekong Transport and Flood Protection
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NPV      Net Present Value
NRN      National Road Network
PAP      Project Affected People
PIMS     Project Information Management System
PM       Periodic Maintenance
PMU1     Project Management Unit One
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RMC      Road Construction and Management Company
RRMU     Regional Road Management Unit
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SOE      State Owned Enterprise
TOR      Terms of Reference
VND      Vietnamese Dong
VOC      Vehicle Operating Costs
VRA      Vietnam Road Administration

   Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
 Country Director   Klaus Rohland
  Sector Manager    Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader    Maria Margarita Nunez

                                             VIETNAM
                               Second Highway Rehabilitation Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
   6. Sustainability                                                                14
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
   9. Partner Comments                                                              19
   10. Additional Information                                                       27
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             42
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                43
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            44

IBRD Map No. 27900R

Project ID: P004842                                                  Project Name: VN-Hwy Rehab II
Team Leader: Maria Margarita Nunez                                   TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: VN-Hwy Rehab II                                          L/C/TF Number: IF-N0130
   Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (93%); Central government administration
                            (4%); Sub-national government administration (2%); Other social
                            services (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/19/1994                                     Effective: 07/02/1997                11/03/1997
     Appraisal: 11/25/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  10/02/2000
      Approval: 04/01/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Socialist Republic of Vietnam/Ministry of Transport
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Margarita Nunez                          Alain L. Labeau
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Margarita Nunez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Government of Vietnam's development strategy was to maintain macroeconomic stability, continue the
transition to an open-market economy, improve basic infrastructure, alleviate poverty, reduce regional
inequalities and preserve natural resources. International Development Association (IDA) support to the
Second Highway Rehabilitation Project (HRP2) was consistent with this strategy and the World Bank's
1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of promoting sustainable development that can rapidly reduce
poverty and help the Government plan and finance infrastructure. Bank assistance was to finance
investments for transport, power and water infrastructure; IDA was to finance rehabilitation.

The project is a continuation of the rehabilitation of Highway 1 (which IDA supported under the Highway
Rehabilitation Project - HRP1), which connects Hanoi with Ho Chi Minh City, the country's most
important artery. Since the highway mainly crosses agricultural provinces were poverty rates are among the
highest in the country, the improved highway would open up these provinces to industrial activities
(agribusiness and light industries) and improve farmers' access to regional markets. Thus, it reflects the
Government's strategy to improve the living conditions of the rural poor. Also, it will (a) introduce modern
road building/maintenance and management methods; (b) re-design key sections to accommodate
non-motorized transport; (c) strengthen highway management institutions; (d) launch pilot programs that
involve modern road maintenance contracting and management methods; and (e) improve traffic safety and
control heavy traffic.

The development objective was to increase economic efficiency and support economic/social development
by improving transport infrastructure. As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), specific
objectives were to (a) reduce road transport costs and promote economic development by improving
national roads, in particular Highway No. 1; (b) enhance the Ministry of Transport's (MOT) efficiency in
periodic maintenance of the national road network; (c) improve road traffic safety and reduce vehicle
overloading; and (d) enhance MOT's institutional capacity to assess and monitor environmental impacts.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original development objective did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
    The project (SDR 136.3 million) consisted of the following components:

    Component A. Road Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. 1. Reconstruction of the Vinh-Dong Ha
    section (292 km) of National Highway No. 1, and reconstruction of two major bridges at Chanh Hoa
    (90 m) and Quan Hau (500 m); and 2. resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people (PAP)
    including those already affected people (AAP), as well as construction of facilities at resettlement sites
    and provision of building materials.

    Component B. Periodic Maintenance of Selected Priority National Roads. This component was to
    launch a pilot program of systematic Periodic Maintenance (PM) on about 1050 km of selected
    sections of national highways by contract. Road sections were selected according to economic and
    other criteria. Besides meeting urgent maintenance needs, the program would introduce the regional
    road maintenance management system piloted under HRP1.

    Component C: Improvement of Hazardous Road Sections. Certain sections of national highways
    were selected for improvements, based on the Vietnam Road Safety Improvement Study conducted



                                                      - 2 -

    under HRP1. Measures included controls for vehicle overloading, adequate road signs and structures,
    and traffic management facilities.

    Component D: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Support for PMU1. This was
    to strengthen the Project Management Unit One (PMU1) capacity to manage highway projects. It
    included an operating center, vehicles and equipment, consultant services for implementation,
    monitoring and evaluation of highway projects, environmental impact assessments (EIA), and staff
    training.

    Component E: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Support to VRA and the
    RRMUs. This included axle load weighing stations and maintenance equipment for the Vietnam Road
    Administration (VRA), and maintenance equipment for Regional Road Management Units (RRMUs).

    Component F: Training. This aimed to improve the transport sector's training capacity through: 1. a
    program for domestic road training institutions; and 2. domestic and overseas staff training in contract
    administration, management and supervision.

    Component G: Detailed Design and Engineering Studies. To prepare for a potential follow-up
    project with IDA financing, this component included a detailed design and engineering study of the
    Can Tho-Nam Can road and parts of the Dong Ha-Quang Ngai road section, as well as the detailed
    design and preparation of bid documents for periodic maintenance of road sections.

3.4 Revised Components:
The component for Improvement of Hazardous Road Sections and the sub-component for VRA axle-load
weighing stations were cancelled: The component was not implemented due to delays related to MOT's
plan to use force account to perform the works--which was inconsistent with the DCA to follow National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). The sub-component of civil works and equipment was not implemented
because no proper legal framework for axle load enforcement existed. MOT proposed to postpone
implementation of both to IDA's Mekong Transport and Flood Protection (MTFP) Credit 3448-VN:
US$2.12 million were cancelled from the credit at the closing date.

The additional works did not require DCA amendments, were consistent with the original objectives of the
project, were awarded after NCB and were completed before the extended credit closing date.

During the mid-term review MOT proposed incorporating additional road sections into the periodic
maintenance program. From September-December 2001, after considering MOT's feasibility study, IDA
approved five additional periodic maintenance works packages (sections NH6 package 5, NH6B, NH12,
NH12B, and NH6 package 4), to be financed out of the cost savings from the Credit. Maintenance
activities included, resealing, overlay, regravelling and minor rehabilitation.

In May 2001, IDA agreed to finance additional works to protect about 10.5 km of severe flood prone
sections, between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai, divided into three NCB contracts for US$3 million. IDA
approved a revised feasibility study to protect flood prone sections in August 2001: 39 additional km were
to be financed under the MTFP. The works involved elevating embankment, widening pavements,
constructing cross drainage and pavement, and protecting masonry slope.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not reviewed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group at appraisal. The ICR rates quality
at entry as satisfactory. The assessment is based on:



                                                      - 3 -

     1. Consistency of project objectives with Government's strategies, the CAS and previous Bank
         interventions in the transport sector;
     2. Attention to prior implementing agencies' performance and opportunity to improve capacity.
         Several problems occurred during HRP implementation due to MOT's slow, multi-layered and
         centralized decision making processes. However, a team of consultants helped MOT during
         appraisal, eliminating some implementing difficulties and somehow enhancing PMU1's capacity;
     3. Progress in project preparation. Engineering designs were completed for rehabilitation of
         Vinh-Dong Ha road section; draft tender documents were prepared and the invitation for
         contractors' pre-qualification was issued. Roads were selected for periodic maintenance; and
     4. MOT complied satisfactorily with World Bank safeguard policy guidelines for environmental and
         resettlement activities during appraisal. It prepared, revised and approved a Resettlement Action
         Plan (RAP) with consultants help.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project improved economic efficiency and supported social development: Improved infrastructure is
essential to alleviate poverty and reduce regional inequalities. At the time of the economic reform program,
the Government committed to moving to a market economy which included liberalization, decentralization,
expansion of internal relations and emphasis on the industrial sector. However, higher transportation
demand was constrained by an inadequate road transport network, poor road conditions, and an obsolete
transport fleet. For example, main highways could not handle the increased traffic, accidents and fatalities
doubled since 1990 and are still rising rapidly; road foundations and surfaces could not sustain heavy truck
traffic, many roads were impassable after the rainy season, many bridges needed to be rehabilitated or
replaced, almost all ferries needed to be upgraded and road maintenance techniques and equipment needed
to be modernized. The project focus on all-weather road reconstruction /rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance was appropriate as road transport comprised the major mode of regional communication and
traffic was concentrated on national roads and around major urban centers.

Overall, the project's development objectives were met. However, achievement of the objectives is rated
marginally satisfactory: Traffic safety did not improve, vehicle overloading was not reduced and MOT's
capacity to manage maintenance activities and monitor EIA was not enhanced. The DCA's specific
objectives are discussed below and presented in Annex 1.

A.       Reduce transport costs through improved national road infrastructure, particularly on
Highway No. 1 (NH1). Conditions on the recently completed road sections have improved, reducing
surface roughness. Fares increased 12% in real terms and market freight tariffs decreased by 4%. Travel
times decreased an average 35% and average travel speed increased at slightly below the target at 53% for
buses and 48% for trucks. Given the low average speeds before the HRP projects, improvements are
tangible. Savings in terms of verifiable indicators in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) include:

    i.   Reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC) in real terms measured by road roughness. The target of
         less than 3.0 m/km IRI was reached. Roughness after completion of NH1 section Vinh to Dong
         Ha, November 2001, were an average 2.2 IRI, excluding the 16.7 km of cement concrete pavement
         that was not tested. Roughness measurements of January 2003 showed some increase compared
         with initial conditions, at an average of 2.6 IRI. Roughness of the concrete sections was 3.7 IRI.

         The roughness survey for the Dong Ha to Quang Ngai periodic maintenance sections in January
         2003 showed an average 2.5 IRI.



                                                      - 4 -

   ii. Reduced passenger tariffs between Vinh and Dong Ha. It was expected that some of the reduced
        operating costs, due to smoother road surfaces and decreased travel times, would be passed on to
        passengers and freight customers: The target was to reduce fares by at least 5% (in real terms).
        However, fares generally increased faster than the rate of inflation, and the hikes are similar to
        those on bus routes other than on NH1. For example, fares for conventional buses from Vinh to
        Hue and to Da Nang rose 12% and 11%, respectively.

        Except for low-standard buses, their quality has greatly improved. The bus fleet was converted
        substantially, now operates most transport services, and is of a higher standard than in the
        mid-1990s. Thus, road improvements contributed to better passenger comfort and reduced trip
        times.

   iii. Reduced freight tariffs for rice, petroleum and cement. The target was for road freight tariffs for
        goods in Government contracts, set by the Government Pricing Committee, to drop by at least 5%.
        Private sector operators are free to set their own tariffs. After improvements were completed and
        the standards raised for NH1 road sections (in HRP1 and HRP2), the official freight rate was
        reduced from VND 1,209 per ton-km in 1997 to VND 989 per ton-km in 2000, a decrease of 18%.

        Market rates for freight tariffs have not shown the same decrease as official rates. In some cases,
        the real rate decrease was close to the 5% target or higher, but in others, it increased. Rates
        between Hanoi and Dong Ha have not changed in recent years, falling by about 4% in real terms.
        Toll stations were installed on this section, which add about VND 60 per ton-km to vehicle
        operating costs, which is approximately 10%-12% of freight rates between Hanoi and Vinh, and
        6% between Vinh and Dong Ha, where rates per km are higher.

   iv. Time saved through increased travel speeds for cars, buses and trucks between Vinh and Dong Ha.
        The target was to reduce travel time by bus by 10% in 2000 and to increase speed in km/hr to 65,
        55 and 50 for car, bus, and truck, respectively. In 2003, travel time from Vinh to Dong Ha was an
        average 5.5 hours, 35% lower than in 1998. Typical bus operating speeds increased significantly,
        from an average of 35 km/hr to almost 53 km/hr, slightly below the target of 55 km/hr.

        In 2003, average truck time from Vinh to Dong Ha was 6.3 hours, 34% lower than in 1998.
        Average speed was slightly lower than for buses, increasing from 30-35 km/hr to 48 km/hr. The
        target was basically achieved and, given the low average speed before the HRP projects,
        improvements were substantial. No major difference in speed was found for different size vehicles.

B.      Enhance efficiency of periodic maintenance of the national road network. A survey of
conditions on a sample of the national road network (NRN) showed steady improvement, overall. About
12% of the periodic maintenance budget was open to competitive bidding.

   i.   Reduce vehicle operating costs (VOC) in real terms measured by road roughness. The target was
        less than 3.0, 3.5, 4.5 m/km IRI for asphalt concrete, bituminous surface treatment and gravel
        surfaces, respectively. Unfortunately, comprehensive data on roughness were unavailable at credit
        closing. However, roughness measurements in 2001 on a sample 1,700 km of the NRN, combined
        with visual inspections to classify roads by condition, show a steady improvement. In 1997, 35%
        was good, 35 % fair and 29% bad, and in 2002, 45% was good, 35 % fair and 20% bad. Much of
        the improvement is probably due to the rehabilitation projects, rather than maintenance: VRA
        reported the maintenance budget for 2003 was only 30% - 40% of the estimated amount needed.


                                                      - 5 -

    ii. Number of contracts and length of tendered works increased in absolute measure and percent of
        total periodic maintenance (PM). The target was at least 10% of PM to be carried out through
        competitive tendering by 2000. Budget allocations for PM in 2002 were VND 374 billion
        (approximately US$24 million) for four RRMUs and four regional project implementation units
        under VRA. Although VND 46 billion (about US$3 million) or 12% of the PM budget was open to
        competitive bidding, the only companies that bid for the work were the Road Construction and
        Management Companies (RMC)--subsidiaries of the RRMUs. Due to a lack of information, it is
        difficult to know if these companies operate independently.

C.      Improve road traffic safety and reduce vehicle overloading. Neither the road safety component
(improvements at hazardous locations) nor the procurement of axle-load control works and equipment were
implemented. Data suggest that accidents and fatalities were not reduced, and results from the 2003
weigh-in-motion surveys suggest that vehicle weights and axle overloading increased over previous years.

    i.  Annual number of accidents and fatalities. The target was to reduce accidents and fatalities by
        20%. Data collected for sections of NH1 (within the HRP1 and HRP2 improvement areas) in
        2002 showed that accidents did not decrease and the rate per number of vehicles increased. Many
        accidents involved motorcycles: A correlation exists between the growth in the number of
        motorcycles and increase in road accidents.

    ii. Reduce overloading of checked vehicles and legal axle loads. The target was to reduce the number
        of overloaded vehicles by 5% and excess loads by 10%. Based on weigh-in-motion surveys in May
        2003, it appears vehicle weights and axle loads are higher than previously. An examination of
        vehicles with a gross weight over 30 tons showed a significant proportion of multi-axle vehicles
        exceeding the limit. For other vehicle types, the percent weighing over 30 tons was higher than
        previously.

        An analysis of vehicles with at least one axle above the 10 ton limit shows a similar situation: Axle
        loads were generally higher in 2003 than before. The completion of HRP1 and HRP2 may have
        allowed more overloading on NH1 than before, when poor surface conditions caused extensive
        damage to heavily loaded vehicles.

D.      Enhance MOT's institutional capacity in environmental impact assessments and monitoring.
While MOT prepared EIA guidelines for road projects in December 2001, it did not conduct any EIAs or
produce monitoring reports.

    i.  EIA guidelines for road projects. The target to prepare EIA guidelines for road projects was met,
        as MOT completed them in December 2001.

    ii. EIAs regularly conducted and monitored. Although MOT was to conduct EIAs for at least 40% of
        road projects, it did none; nor did it produce monitoring reports. The Environmental Monitoring
        Unit was not established until April 2002, staff were not trained in environmental/social issues, did
        not oversee EIAs and did not monitor the environmental action plans.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Road Reconstruction and Rehabilitation. (US$121.44 million, SAR; US$109.83
million, Implementation Completion Report [ICR]). This component was rated satisfactory. A field
inspection after completion showed good quality construction.



                                                     - 6 -

Rehabilitation of the NH1 between Vinh and Dong Ha. Civil works were performed on 292 km of NH1
between Vinh and Dong Ha, which involved rehabilitating the original alignment, a 12-meter asphalt
concrete (AC) pavement, a seven-meter carriageway and 2.5 meter paved shoulders. In flood-prone areas,
the road bed was raised one meter and the embankment strengthened. A cement concrete pavement of 15.8
km was built in 10 short sections in all but one flood-prone area. The roughness level immediately after
rehabilitation averaged 2.3 IRI for the AC sections and 3.7 IRI for the cement concrete sections.

All four contracts were completed in 2001. However, the process of implementation was poor, design
standards were modified, quantities varied, environmental performance was poor, land acquisition was
delayed and several issues surfaced with resettlement and compensation of PAPs. Construction schedules
were not met, which caused significant delays.

Compliance with resettlement planning and implementation. This involved resettlement and rehabilitation
of project affected persons (PAP) and those already affected, including construction of resettlement
facilities and provision of building materials. The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was consistent with
Government laws and guidelines and the World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on involuntary
resettlement. It was based on 1995 socio-economic surveys, following passage of Decree No. 36/CP on
traffic safety, and measurement surveys of 1996 to determine the PAPs' losses.

Despite IDA efforts to develop PMU1 capacity to address land acquisition and resettlement issues, the
project was hampered by less than adequate attention from the Resettlement Unit. When the media reported
that funds were misused in Ha Tinh province, IDA required MOT to review the situation. This led to a
1999 mission which found significantly more PAPs than originally identified had received compensation,
and no explanation was given for the discrepancy. IDA required that a parallel consultant survey be made
of compensation funds in Ha Tinh province, along with a similar exercise for all HRP1 compensations. The
surveys confirmed that funds had been mishandled.

In May 2000, PMU1 developed an action plan of remedial measures to compensate PAPs and return
misused funds identified in the report. All Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) forms were transferred
from the provinces and kept in the PMU1 Hanoi office for control purposes. Discrepancies in the data
were reconciled, particularly the disconnect between financial and operational data. PMU1 then prepared
supporting documents for an ex-post review of expenditures for resettlement activities; it was conducted in
June 2000 by the Hanoi Bank office. Ineligible expenditures were refunded to each project's Special
Account.

Overall, the project complied with resettlement procedures and the compensation program for affected
households. Also, it performed satisfactorily with respect to RAP expected outputs, due to close
collaboration among PMU1 authorities and Peoples' Committees at the provincial, district and commune
levels. RAP officials in the provinces rated implementation of resettlement procedures and the
compensation program as satisfactory; key participants noted that the project achieved its targets and
generally benefited the population in affected provinces, cities, towns, districts and communes.

Component B: Periodic Maintenance on 1,050 km of National Roads (US$60.5 million, [SAR];
US$85.99 million, [ICR]). This component is rated marginally satisfactory. Although (a) the total
surpassed the 1,050 km target--1,073 were actually maintained, (b) work under ICB between Dong Ha
and Quang Ngai and the NCB flood-prone sections was of good quality, and (c) average roughness was 2.5
IRI, the quality of work on sections outside NH1 is only fair, and roughness measurements for this area are
not readily available. Road safety and environmental compliance was poor throughout implementation.


                                                     - 7 -

Periodic maintenance under NCB. This was a program for national roads, including 70 sub-projects.
National competitive bidding (NCB) was applied to 65 contracts, only three of which were carried out by
private contractors--for 833 km and an estimated US$29.7 million. All contracts were implemented
successfully.

Supervision consultants helped PMU1,VRA and RRMUs administer contracts, oversee works and train
staff from the contractors and government agencies. Also, consultants introduced a project information
management system (PIMS) for reporting purposes, and provinces were to use it to manage contracts.
Although VRA interaction with consultants was limited, the latter helped identify problems, troubleshoot
PMU1 implementation issues, and train local contractors and supervisors. Training was based on the
needs of those involved.

Ten workshops for about 140 supervision, sub-PMU and contractor staff were held in Danang, Ho Chi
Minh, Vinh and Hanoi. Topics included contract conditions, staff roles and responsibilities, quality and
quantity of work, daily records and site diaries, programming and cash flow, valuation and payments,
contract management, technical specifications, testing materials and reporting. On-the-job training focused
on meeting immediate needs and promoting a better work environment. Consultants produced manuals on
contracting procedures/administration for periodic maintenance: Contract Preparation and Supervision
and Periodic Maintenance Contracts are available in English and Vietnamese.

Periodic maintenance under ICB between Dong Ha-Quang Ngai. Maintenance on the Dong Ha-Quang
Ngai section of NH1 was separated into four contracts and completed in 2003. These were of good quality
and have performed well since completion. The average roughness level was 2.5 IRI.

The project included 230 km (non-continuous sections) of the 289km of NH1 from Dong Ha to Quang
Ngai: 33 PM areas alternate with short sections of other projects, including those in flood-prone areas (see
below). Sections range from under 500 meters to 48 km. Although conceived as periodic maintenance, the
work also involved sub-base and base course replacement--similar to the rehabilitation on the Vinh to
Dong Ha section. The general standard is a 10-meter wide AC pavement, with a 7-meter carriageway and
two 1.5- meter paved shoulders.

Severe flood-prone sections under NCB. Nine sections between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai, 10.5 km
long, were included shortly after the credit became effective. They were completed in the first half of 2003
and are of good quality, as reflected by an average 2.5 IRI.

The standard of work is similar to that on other sections receiving PM, except the width of AC pavement is
11 meters, and the road was raised by approximately one meter to prevent flooding.

Component C: Improvement of Hazardous Road Sections. (US$1.0 million, [SAR]; US$ 0.0 million,
[ICR]). Road safety improvements, vehicle overloading controls, traffic signs and management facilities
did not materialize under the project; thus, it is rated highly unsatisfactory.

The component was not implemented due to delays resulting from MOT's plan to use Force Account to
perform the works--though the original plan was to use NCB procedures. The process of identifying and
selecting hazardous locations was begun and a preliminary list of improvements was generated. Given the
time constraints once the Force Account issue was resolved, IDA proposed carrying out the effort under the
MTFP. A number of sections, of the 51 identified as hazardous, were improved by VRA with its own
funds.


                                                       - 8 -

Also, the lack of adequate laws to enforce axle-load controls prompted MOT/PMU1 to delay decisions on
equipment specifications. Thus, the Government decided to include the weigh-control equipment and
stations components under the MTFP to allow full review of the program.

Road safety on the recently rehabilitated roads and traffic management near work sites must be improved
substantially. The World Bank conveyed its concerns to MOT about problems on NH1 as well as on some
maintained sections: Once road conditions improved, drivers' high speeds and generally poor behavior
made the roads unsafe for all users, particularly pedestrians and two-wheel vehicles. Although road signs
and markings for construction sites improved significantly during the project, little thought was given to the
approach to and crossing of built-up and urban areas. Further, there are few or no highway police to
control drivers' behavior. To make matters worse, the public uses the roads improperly--for commercial
and domestic activities--and has little regard for traffic. Thus, the country needs an extensive education
campaign, particularly for those circulating in and near the main roads.

Component D: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Support to PMU1. (US$2.01
million, [SAR]; US$1.39 million, [ICR]). The objective of strengthening PMU1 to manage highway
projects was fairly well achieved. The component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Construction of PMU1's operating center. The center--with an elevator, fire fighting system and
computerized information management system--was completed in 2000. The building is 3,576 sq. meters,
the land 789 sq. meters. Conveniently located downtown, it provides a good work environment.

Procurement of vehicles and office equipment. Vehicles were purchased through civil works contractors for
the regional PMU1 units; office equipment was purchased in six packages and included computer
hardware/software, telephone systems, and audio equipment. All have been fully utilized.

Technical support for project implementation/training. This sub-component was not implemented. No TA
was approved for PMU1and staff received only on-the-job training while the project was implemented and
through selective participation in the Second Program for Retraining Road Sector Professionals.

Monitoring/evaluation. Quarterly monitoring evaluation and reporting were not produced. A consultant
team, selected in 2002, created the framework and procedures for reviewing performance indicators and
ex-post project evaluation. The consultant completed the assignment, and the final report is a good
compendium for PMU1 to evaluate/monitor implementation.

Support for environmental impact assessments (EIAs). The Environmental Unit, with a staff of two, was
to have been established at PMU1 by the end of 1997; also, steps were to be taken during the design and
construction of the road projects to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts. PMU1's environmental
unit was to oversee EIAs and monitor environmental action plans during construction. Further, staff were
to conduct training in during the EIA studies, consistent with the Ministry of Science Technology and
Environment (MOSTE) guidelines, including monitoring the mitigation measures. However, the
Environmental Unit was only created in April 2002, with staff that did not have experience to conduct EIAs
and do environmental monitoring, or prepare environmental reports. To assess the contractors' mitigation
measures (as required under the contract) for the construction period, the environmental team adopted the
General Schedule of Mitigation Measures used for road projects. Finally, at the requirement of IDA and
the Environmental team during the defects liability period, contractors took measures to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts caused by construction.



                                                     - 9 -

The team staff did not receive environmental training. The environmental team staff was to receive
environmental training needed using the HRP2 budget allocation, or a possibly Bank-IDF grant for
environmental training in road construction. But, training for the team never occurred.

Compliance with mitigation measures. A 1996 EIA was prepared before project implementation. MOSTE
officials in Hanoi and the Department of Science, Technology and Environment (DOSTE) in the provinces
confirmed that the project complied with EIA requirements.

Environmental issues were not given priority during construction and the project did not comply with
Government and Bank EA requirements during implementation. Inadequate attention was paid to
measures to mitigate adverse impacts--despite the EMP and Sub-Clause 19.1 on safety, security and
protection of the environment in contract documents, as well as periodic reminders from construction
supervision consultants. To improve their performance, the consultants withheld payments, suspended
works, removed workers from construction sites, and advised that works would be carried out by other
parties at the contractors' cost. However, these measures had little or no effect. No monitoring reports
exist to show if there was compliance with 31 mitigation measures recommended in the EIA, and
environmental monitoring was not carried out after the project was completed. But based on available
documents, it is clear that contractors did not satisfactorily address at least a third of the measures.

The Bank asked the construction supervision consultants to incorporate all outstanding environmental
concerns (clean-up and restoration of asphalt and batching plants, construction camps, equipment sites
including proper disposal of all waste materials) in the Defect Lists to be submitted to the contractors. If
the latter failed to comply (to the Bank and PMU1 satisfaction) within a given period, a competent
sub-contractor would be appointed to complete the work at the contractors' expense. The Bank also
recommended that PMU1 and the construction consultants delay giving the contractors the Completion of
the Defect Liability Certificates in order to retain monetary leverage and pay for the site clean-up, if
sub-contractors were retained to complete the work. At project completion, the contractors had complied
with most of the above mitigation measures.

Overall, the project complied in a marginally satisfactory manner with the environmental procedures.

Component E: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Support to VRA and the RRMUs.
(US$5.2 million, [SAR]; US$3.74 million, [ICR]). This component is rated marginally satisfactory.

The axle-load subcomponent was not implemented, due to the Borrower's concern that a proper legal
framework for enforcement measures did not exist. IDA asked VRA to strengthen the framework and
supported the Government decision to develop the program under the MTFP credit. Acquisition of five
goods packages (Highway Maintenance Equipment, Road Marking Unit, Bridge Inspection Unit,
Transportation Equipment, and Survey and Inspection Equipment) further enabled VRA to respond to
periodic maintenance needs. All equipment purchased under the project was utilized except that for survey
and inspection which was not used and was placed in storage.

Component F: Training (US$1.0 million, [SAR]; US$ 0.75 million, [ICR]). A consultant team was to
retrain road sector professionals; the component was marginally satisfactory.

Besides on-the-job training from foreign consultants on managing and supervising PM, MOT engineering
and management staff and trainees from various agencies of the road sector participated in short-term
training (11-week): Second program for retraining of road sector profesionals. This was only organized


                                                      - 10 -

during the later part of the project. The courses were attended by staff from MOT departments, PMUs,
research institutes, road construction corporations, consultant firms and supervision consultants. Training
included case studies, site visits, project work and assessments: 309 individuals completed the courses, a
number that was 35% fewer than the original plan. The program produced a set of training materials in
CD-ROMs for dissemination.

                            Table 4.1 - HRP2 Second Retraining Program 2003

                   Course / Activity                    Planned               ICR Actual
                   Senior manager                          75                     56
                   Middle/junior manager                  100                     49
                   Highway engineer                        75                     64
                   Bridge tunnel engineer                  75                     44
                   Construction supervision               150                     96
                   Total                                  475                    309



Component G: Detailed Design and Engineering Studies (US$3 million, [SAR]; US$ 0.0 million, ICR.
This component was cancelled upon confirmation of PHRD grant funding for subsequent project design.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Borrower performed an economic re-evaluation of the rehabilitated roads and major PM sections. The
general approach followed conventional economic appraisal methodo1ogy for road projects: It compared
conditions where roads were improved to those that would most likely have materialized without the
project. (See Annex 3 for current traffic levels, construction and maintenance costs, and potential benefits
and evaluation per section).

Table 4.2 summarizes results for the two main projects. Values of the main components are shown in
millions, discounted to base year values at 10%, with the internal rate of return (IRR) in the final column.
Net present value (NPV) is the sum of all savings minus capital costs. Project sections are viable, with
IRRs significantly above the 12% target. The economic re-evaluation of road components suggests the
original assumptions were accurate and confirmed the justification for the investment.


              Table 4.2 - Summary of Evaluation Results (Present Value at 10% in US$ million)

                                Capital     Maint.      VOC        Pass. Time    Flood     NPV      IRR
                                 Cost        Cost     Savings       Savings      Delay              (%)
                               Increase     Savings                             Savings
     Vinh-Dong Ha                 47.33         3.10       52.38         35.03       5.26  48.43   21.6
     Dong Ha- Quang Ngai          37.35         3.99       53.73         27.40       2.70  50.48   30.0



Sensitivity analysis. This was performed to determine the impact of various inputs/assumptions in the
areas with the greatest uncertainties, such as the rate of traffic growth, value of passenger time savings, and
timing of overlays applied in the base case. Tests were performed with traffic growth at 12% and 4% a
year, non-working passenger time and all passenger time values set at zero, and base case overlays given at
the beginning of the evaluation period. The test with all passenger time valued at zero was an extreme case
to show the level of return with a major decrease in benefits.

Table 4.3 lists results in terms of the IRR, together with those of the main evaluation for comparison.



                                                     - 11 -

Changing traffic growth has only a limited impact on results. If all time values are set to zero, the IRRs are
much reduced, as would be expected. If it is assumed that an AC overlay is given to the existing road at
the beginning of the evaluation period, the IRR changes little because, although the surface would be
improved initially to a standard similar to that achieved in the HRP2 works, such overlays would
deteriorate more rapidly than the HRP2 surface. Thus, the "with project" case will have less roughness
than the base case over the evaluation period.

                                  Table 4.3 - Sensitivity Test Results (IRR)

                                                 Main        Traffic Growth      Zero Value
                                              Evaluation         (12%)              (4%)
                   Vinh-Dong Ha                  21.6             24.1               19.2
                   Dong Ha- Quang Ngai           30.0             33.0               26.6



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was modest. The project exposed PMU1 and VRA staff to doing
PM by contract and adopting competitive procurement processes. Knowledge and technology transfer
occurred during implementation related to PM, local engineers with foreign experts supervised the PM
contracts and 309 individuals (MOT staff and construction/supervision engineers) were trained in domestic
courses. However, much must still be done to (a) promote environmental concepts including protection,
mitigation and monitoring of measures during implementation; and (b) introduce market mechanisms into
highway maintenance operations, particularly by contract, to improve the quality/efficiency.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Adverse climate conditions. In 1999, the central coast experienced heavy rains that destroyed significant
parts of the transport infrastructure and caused about 600 casualties. The Vinh to Dong Ha and Dong Ha
to Quang Ngai contract areas had severe flooding that heavily damaged the roads. IDA agreed to finance
additional works not envisaged under the original project in order to perform extensive PM along the most
affected sections. Also, the detailed designs of several flood-prone sections were revised to strengthen
vulnerable sections and protect maintenance investments.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Use of force account to improve hazardous sections. The project included a component to improve
hazardous locations by national competitive bidding. However, in 2002, after considerable delays, the
Government asked to implement it under force account (with its Road and Repair Management Enterprise).
After many discussions and when the Government decided to move forward, there was little time left under
the credit. Thus, it was impossible to implement the component and the unutilized proceeds were cancelled
when the credit was closed.

Guidance to large state-owned-enterprises. During implementation of the ICB contracts, most foreign
contractors were crowded out by the SOEs' extremely low prices; moreover, when a joint venture (JV) was
formed, foreign contractors had only a management role. The SOEs suffered from chronically inadequate
equipment and lack of skilled labor, which affected the quality of works. The SOEs were also committed to
numerous other contracts, were unable to provide basic financial data thus it was impossible to assess their
technical and financial situation. Supervision consultants complained that contractors disregarded their



                                                     - 12 -

advice and followed the MOT/PMU1. Many discussions were held between the Bank and MOT/PMU1 to
assess contractors' schedules, restore performance and comply with JV arrangements.

Resettlement compensation. In June 1999, resettlement issues surfaced when it was revealed that the
number of project affected persons (PAPs) had increased significantly--from 8,487 in 1996 to 11,914 in
1998. Newspaper reports on non-payment of compensation to many PAPs in Ha Tinh ultimately brought
the issue to the Bank's attention. Despite the Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) and socio-economic
surveys while the RAP for HRP2 was prepared, the number of PAPs in Ha Tinh continued to increase
during implementation. This was partly caused by design changes during implementation. However, it was
shown that commune authorities failed to adequately implement the compensation policy.

Database discrepancies were reconciled, particularly the disconnect between financial and operational data.
PMU1 prepared all supporting documents for an ex-post review of the statement of expenditures with
respect to financing resettlement activities. DMS forms were transferred from the provinces and kept in
Hanoi's PMU1 offices for control purposes. With support from a consultant, PMU1 reviewed the data in
June 2000 and a Resettlement Remedial Action Plan was developed. Accounts were reconciled and VND
15,663,743,887 were refunded to the credit.

Compensation issues were eventually resolved in a manner satisfactory to IDA, and implementation
continued after initial delays.

Delays in TA and training. Institutional strengthening activities generally started late, due to prolonged
discussions and lengthy MOT internal approval processes. TA and training for implementation and
environmental monitoring/reporting were not performed and the second program for retraining was reduced
in scope due to time constraints.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Environmental monitoring/reporting and training. Contractors and supervision engineers did not pay
enough attention to the project's environmental aspects. Local practices and low bidding prices made
implementation difficult. Although specific requirements on environmental aspects and their associated
costs were listed in the bidding/contract documents, and monitoring/reporting responsibilities were included
in the supervision engineer's TOR, environmental monitoring reports were never submitted.

While capacity was to be enhanced, and an environmental unit was established for monitoring purposes,
team members did not benefit from environmental training. IDA requested PMU1 to start the necessary
environmental training in road projects, but, training for the environmental team did not materialize and
capacity remains weak.

Extensive contract variation. Major design changes to the PM contracts, including the flood-prone
sections of NH-1, were initiated immediately after contracts were awarded and this adversely affected
contract prices and the specified completion period. A weak original design was the main cause of cost
increases, as occurred with the PM contract, where variation orders were issued for 62 of 69 contracts and
up to 139% of contract value for various appropriate reasons.

PM contracts between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai increased in value by an average 62%. The increments
were caused by a review of pavement design and after the unusual rainfall of 1999 and urban road section
improvements: Increments on the design were justified by changes in pavement thickness to offer greater
support to traffic loads. On the urban roads, increments were also justified since the sections were widened
to accommodate the various users. Supervision review of the flood-prone sections and MOT significant


                                                     - 13 -

changes contributed to an increase of about 40% in contract values from the original BOQ.

Financial management. The ability of PMU1 to access information on implementation progress and
financial information was poor. The Bank's team highlights a major concern in this regard with PMU1's
shortcomings to provide basic financial data on the project financial situation throughout project duration.
The final phase of the project took PMU1 with about US$16 million of unprocessed contractual payments
to be submitted for disbursement in a short time, for no other reason than slow processing time.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$236.7 million (including contingencies of US$42.5
million), of which US$195.6 million was to be financed by IDA. The total actual cost is estimated at
US$201.7, IDA financed US$173 and US$6.8 were cancelled. Civil works for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of NH1 from Vinh to Dong Ha, including land acquisition and resettlement, were estimated at
US$148.3million at appraisal, while the actual cost was about US$109.8 million -- project savings of
about 5%. Periodic maintenance was estimated at US$74.2 million, and actual costs were estimated at
US$86.0 million  an increase of about 16%, because of substantial increases and expansion of severe
flood sections (see section 5.3). Annex 2 summarizes project cost by item.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project will most likely be sustainable and enhanced by follow-up IDA assistance to the sector,
including the ongoing Mekong Transport and Flood Protection Project (MTFP - Cr. 3448), the Road
Network Improvement Project (RNIP - Cr. 3843), and the proposed Vietnam Road Safety project, as well
as other donors' programs. The project is expected to maintain the achievements related to the NH1
improvements and selected sections of national roads, as all Government levels have demonstrated
commitment to improvements of the national road network.

Although MOT carried out 99% of the latest project components, the aspects that were cancelled could
have generated even greater returns, since they would have expanded the Ministry's and agencies' capacity
to preserve the economic impact of assets and reduce traffic accidents: Unfortunately, the project did not
improve the implementing agency and VRA management capacity. The VRA and regional units acquired
equipment to plan, manage and perform road maintenance activities; but, MOT's bussiness process for
road maintenance was not developed and the road and bridge inspection equipment acquired (under the
project) was not utilized. Also, routine and periodic road maintenance is still under-funded. Substantial
dialogue is underway to address maintenance issues, and the sector portfolio and pipeline are focused on
road maintenance and safety.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project's civil works were properly performed, are fully operational and assumed by VRA. The
project provided a pilot experience--introducing competitive bidding for road improvements and PM.
Implementing units began to appreciate the benefits of the competitive approach in terms of shorter
construction periods. However, local private companies were not encouraged to participate and most PM
contracts were awarded to SOEs of the sub-regional units known as road construction and management
companies. MOT plans to expand the road construction industry and bring the SOEs into the new
contracting environment.

The project supported institutional capacity building for staff at the central and sub-PMU levels, as well as
for supervisors and contractors. Still, VRA's capacity to manage road maintenance must be further
strengthened. Problems include VRA's lack of planning/programming abilities and of a PM framework,


                                                    - 14 -

and its unwillingness to outsource to local companies and gain experience with modern maintenance
practices.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA's performance in the preparation stage was marginally satisfactory.

During identification, the task team ensured that development objectives and project scope were consistent
with the Government's sectoral priorities and IDA's assistance strategy. The project preparation team
complied with all relevant safeguard policies. The economic evaluation correctly assessed the project's
viability for the major works. However, though monitoring indicators were identified at appraisal, baseline
data were not established. The main risks, again correctly identified, were: (a) inadequate experience in
using IDA procedures such as those for procurement, disbursements and audits, which could delay project
implementation; (b) lack of adequate counterpart funds; and (c) inexperience with and changes in
resettlement policies and practices. For other risks related to institutional development which were
applicable and only identified later --such as the use of the regional road maintenance management system,
validation of the private sector participation, staffing, training and funding-- IDA could have been more
engaged.

IDA's projects, as well as those of other ODA donors, are managed by PMUs. However, the
implementation functions, including those related to contracts, environmental and resettlement issues,
financial management and project monitoring/reporting were not consolidated within PMU1, given that
understaffing and under-funding was a continuous problem. Implementing units are supposed to function,
with consultants' help, until all project-related tasks are incorporated into the clients' line institutions. At
the time of project design, there was an opportunity to seek long-term solutions to MOT's capacity for
implementation, such as mainstreaming the project into its regular functions.

Assessments of VRA's capacity to benefit from the pilot experience for PM, as well as to comprehend the
force account issue, and the adequacy of the legal framework for axle load control, were overly optimistic.

SOEs were allowed to participate in the bidding process and awarded IDA-financed ICB and NCB
contracts for civil works. While the prices they proposed were low, they usually had inadequate equipment
and funds, as well as unskilled labor, which resulted in low-quality work, cost hikes and delays. IDA could
have identified appropriate incentives for MOT to restructure the SOEs and thus produce a more level
playing field for the private sector; also, it could have engaged the Government in a reform program that
would have facilitated gradual divestiture, modernization and timely assessment of the SOEs' technical and
financial capacities.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of IDA staff during supervision is rated satisfactory. IDA conducted 10 supervision
missions between July 1998 and June 2003 which were supported with continuous assistance from the
Bank's Hanoi office. As with the HRP1, the civil works were supervised by international consultants who
were often unable to improve the pace of project delivery. And, as was the case with the on-site engineers,
IDA's supervision missions had problems improving poor performance. This limited effectiveness and
raised supervision costs.

The supervision team continually tried to improve PMU1's ability to handle land acquisition, resettlement
and environmental issues. Due to PMU1's shortcomings, the team monitored PMU1 and the consultants,


                                                       - 15 -

who were addressing resettlement and environmental concerns in order to safeguard compliance. Work at
completion is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, IDA performance is rated satisfactory. HRP2 continued IDA's previous involvement in the
transport sector, and was identified and implemented while HRP1 was under way. IDA has been flexible
when dealing with the changes in project scope, such as the addition of the severe flood-prone sections, and
to the Borrower's request to extend the credit by one year.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. It was led by MOT staff, and the VRA
and PMU teams were committed to the project. Technical reports and proposals, of professional quality,
correctly identified key issues following the advice from external consultants.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was marginally satisfactory. MOT was responsible for
quality during implementation and actively resolved problems. However, VRA showed little commitment:
It did not get involved nor provide information on traffic, maintenance activities and conditions on national
roads with which to monitor the project. A key problem was VRA's position on the improvements at
hazardous locations and the load-control works and equipment sub-component. This negatively affected
the project outcomes on traffic safety and the vehicle overloading.

PM on national roads other than NH1 was of fair quality, more staff would have increased quality of
outputs. Poor quality was caused by too little attention to testing materials and quality control on many
road sections. Higher standards should have been required of the supervision staff and contractors, and
construction should have been constantly checked to ensure it conformed with agreed standards. The site
laboratories were not used regularly to confirm continued compliance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project implementation agency's performance was marginally satisfactory. PMU1 carried out the
major civil works, though not in the timeframe and budget. The main contracts were continually delayed in
the project's first phase and variation orders increased the costs of the PM.

In August 1999, IDA initially rated project implementation progress, procurement schedules and
resettlement unsatisfactory, due to (a) project's performance, (b) pending issues in the design and feasibility
studies of the flood-prone sections and PM and (c) PMU1's shortcomings to handle land acquisition and
resettlement issues. However, by the end of 1999, after a Bank team assessed the situation--based on
quarterly outputs that restored performance and improved resettlement activities--it changed the rating to
satisfactory. After this, conditions improved slightly on the main contracts, due to extra resources that
were better managed. Performance of the other components was similarly fair throughout the project.

Failure to properly staff and train members of the Environmental Unit had a major negative effect on
implementation. PMU1's environmental team was not created until mid-2002 and its members had no
experience conducting EIA studies, monitoring the environment or preparing environmental reports. Also,
they were not trained in environmental issues.

Environmental performance was not a priority during construction and implementation generally did not
comply with Government or Bank EA requirements: No monitoring records or reports exist assessing



                                                      - 16 -

compliance against the mitigation measures recommended in the EIA report, and the environment was not
monitored after the project was completed. A quick review at completion performed by PMU1, showed
that contractors had complied with most of the required mitigation measures.

Overall, the project was marginally satisfactory in its compliance with environmental procedures.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower and MOT performance is rated satisfactory. MOT complied substantially with the credit's
conditions and project agreements. IDA's requirements were followed, with the exception the use of IDA
fund for ineligible resettlement compensation expenses and carry out the project in accordance with
implementation program, and some reporting: semi-annual monitoring and annual expenditure program for
the road sector.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional capacity building ownership. The project aimed at enhancing institutional capacity of the
recipient agency in several competencies; road maintenance, implementation of highway projects, traffic
management and in road transport sector training system. Even though these activities were an integral
part of the project and the Credit Agreement, MOT was reticent in approving technical assistance, only a
few of the activities were approved and implemented, and training only started during later part of the
project. Thus, institutional capacity building was not achieved as planned. The continued Bank support to
the transport sector capacity building should take place only after careful consideration and discussion with
the agencies involved. Preparation of the institutional capacity components should be well advanced during
project preparation, including definition of clear performance indicators, a set of intermediate results linked
to with project outcomes, and emphasis to obtaining clear signs of ownership from the client.

Proper policies and business procedures for road maintenance management are needed. MOT needs
to improve its ability to plan, budget and monitor maintenance activities to facilitate sustainable
preservation and improve access for road users. Asset management activities, related to road condition
surveys, and traffic safety and heavy loading data collection, are seldom performed by VRA resulting in the
lack of a proper framework for road maintenance planning, prioritization and funding. MOT should take
into account their Ten-year Strategic Maintenance Plan, when preparing annual work programs. Finally,
monitoring implementation of annual work programs and regular reporting on the road network condition
provide critical feed back for adjusting road maintenance programs.

The role of the Supervision Engineer should be strengthened. This was the first IDA-funded project
where National contractors were engaged under standard conditions of contracts, (before contracts were
performed by force account or direct contracting). During execution of the periodic maintenance civil
works a large variation in effectiveness of the supervision and quality control. The Engineers were not
exercising their authority as provided in the contract. It was found that in those cases where adequate
testing was carried out, the finished work was generally of better quality. Roles should have been clarified
to all parties, and duties and responsibilities should have been formally detailed. It will take further
experience and training by all parties to understand the implications of the conditions of contracts. Further
training is recommended for the benefit of future programs .

Design and Construction standards should be consistent with the project objective. During project
design, appropriate standards were adopted for road rehabilitation and maintenance. The candidate roads
were selected in accordance with economic and safeguards criteria, however, soon after rehabilitation or
periodic maintenance was completed, MOT and the provinces decided to widen several road sections:



                                                      - 17 -

agreements on selection of standards are not applied. VRA's planning and programming processes for road
maintenance, should be further enhanced with capacity building and standards for maintenance works. The
adoption of the standards should be a prerequisite for any future road maintenance program.

Due diligence on environmental and social inputs improve project implementation. A mechanism to
monitor and evaluate the environmental impact at project-design phase was established, however,
environmental monitoring and reporting was not implemented, despite repeated requests from IDA's project
team. Capacity building activities including training of PMU1's staff responsible for environmental issues
was not approved by MOT. A strategic framework under which the environmental issues could have been
addressed was missing. The framework should have been consistent with internationally recognized
practices for design, implementation, and operation of road projects. Future lending infrastructure projects
in Vietnam should have independent environmental and resettlement Monitoring.

Continued focus on the Government's program of SOE equitisation program is needed. The
Government has slowly been restructuring and privatizing SOEs for nearly a decade. After some initial
difficulties, MOT's equitised SOEs have shown improvement in operational and financial performance,
however, there remain a large number of SOEs to which reform has not been applied thus creating an
environment with considerable state intervention which hinders competition and lack access to sound
management practices. The equitisation process could have continued through this project with a
programmatic approach that would have created the right incentives for MOT's innovation, supporting
some successful case models for future application, focusing on equisitation of profitable enterprises and
extending the reform to large SOEs.




                                                    - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency submitted the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Report and a set of tables with
information relevant to the project outputs, to the Bank in August 7, 2003. The full report is available in
the project files and an unedited summary is presented here.

1.       Achievement of Objectives

Vinh - Dong Ha Rehabilitation Project. The HRP 2 civil work on the 292 km Vinh - Dong Ha section of
NH1 consists of rehabilitation on the original alignment as a 12 metre asphaltic concrete (AC) pavement,
consisting of a 7 metre carriageway plus 2.5 metre paved shoulders. In areas subject to flooding the road
bed was typically raised by 1 metre and the embankment strengthened as part of the rehabilitation. A
cement concrete pavement was provided in ten short sections with a total length of 16.7 km, all but one in
flood prone areas. The roughness level immediately after rehabilitation averaged IRI 2.3 for the AC
sections and 3.7 for the cement concrete sections.

Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Periodic Maintenance Project. A total of 230 km of the 289km of NH1 from km
756 at Dong Ha to km 1045 in Quang Ngai Province is included in the HRP 2 Periodic Maintenance
Project. These works are not in continuous sections. There are a total of 33 separate periodic maintenance
sections that alternate with short sections of other projects, including those of the HRP 2 Severely Flood
Prone Sections discussed below. Individual sections range in length from 48 km to less than 500 metres.

Although designated as periodic maintenance, the work undertaken was more substantial than the usual
concept of periodic maintenance, involving the sub-base and base courses. It is of a similar standard to the
rehabilitation carried out on the Vinh to Dong Ha section, except that the overall pavement width is less.
The general standard is a 10 metre wide AC pavement, consisting of a 7 metre carriageway and two 1.5
metre paved shoulders. The average roughness level after implementation was IRI 2.5.

Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Severely Flood Prone Sections Project. Nine sections of flood prone road
between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai, with a total length of 10.5 km were included in the HRP 2 Project.
These works were completed in the first half of 2003. The standard of work is similar to that of the
periodic maintenance project sections, except that the total width of the AC pavement is 11 metres, and the
road has been raised by approximately 1 metre to prevent flooding of the road, except by floods occurring
at more than 10-year intervals. The average roughness level of those sections completed by the time the
surveys were carried out was IRI 2.5.

Periodic Maintenance of Selected Priority National Roads. Seventy sections of roads nationwide with a
total length of 870 km were subjected to periodic maintenance by contract. The description of the contract
packages is included in Table C.1 attached.

Improvement of Hazardous Locations. This component was cancelled.




                                                     - 19 -

Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Support to PMU1. The operating centre was built
and is functioning properly equipped with electricity, elevator and fire fighting system. The vehicles and
office equipment was procured in six packages which included computer hardware, software, telephones,
conference audio systems and other office equipment. A consultant firm was selected to produce the
project monitoring and evaluations study and the environmental and social assessment.

Support to VRA and RRMUs. The maintenance equipment was procured in five packages, which included
highway maintenance, bridge inspection, transport road marking and survey and inspection equipment.
The Axle Load Weight Stations sub-component was cancelled.

Training. A second program for retraining of roads sector professionals was conducted was delivered for
309 trainees of various agencies of road sector. The courses were in senior management, junior
management, and bridge and tunnel, construction supervision and highways engineer.

2.       Overview of Construction Standards

The following brief comments are provided as an overview of the construction of the roads sections
evaluated in the study. Surface roughness, measured in terms of the International Roughness Index (IRI),
is among the most important inputs for the economic analysis of road projects. Differences between IRI
levels with and without projects are a major determinant of the level of benefits of road rehabilitation and
maintenance projects.

Vinh - Dong Ha Rehabilitation Project
The HRP 2 work on the Vinh - Dong Ha section of NH1 consists of rehabilitation on the original alignment
as a 12 metre asphaltic concrete (AC) pavement. The average roughness level measured in November
2001 (just after road completion) was IRI 2.2. This level of roughness for a recently constructed highway
is reasonable. For the roughness level to be improved to higher standards then the construction of the base
and AC would need improved level control. The pavement has performed for a reasonable period of time
and there are no indications that provided reasonable maintenance is provided that the intended design life
will be achieved.

A cement concrete pavement was provided in ten short sections with a total length of 16.7 km. The average
roughness level measured in July 2002 (within one year of project completion) was IRI 3.7. This is very
rough for a recently constructed concrete pavement. The work was carried out using a special concrete
paving machine that is known to be able to produce high quality concrete finishes. However, it is important
that the rate of concrete supply is high to ensure that the machine can run continuously without stopping
and starting. It was also noted that a number of joints have been repaired indicating that the attention to the
joints was probably lacking. For example the rigidity and alignment of the dowels is important to ensure
free movement during shrinkage of the concrete. For short lengths of concrete pavement the most practical
method of construction is by hand rather than by machine. The rate of concrete supply and the attention to
level and quality of the formwork should ensure that the hand method could achieve the desired finish of
concrete pavement.




                                                     - 20 -

Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Periodic Maintenance Project
A total of 230 km of of NH1 from km 756 at Dong Ha to km 1045 in Quang Ngai Province was included
in the HRP 2 Periodic Maintenance Project. The average roughness level measured in January 2003 (just
after completion) was IRI 2.5. This average level of roughness for a recently constructed highway is fair.
It is likely that the road base was constructed using a grader and the AC was applied to thickness control
rather than level control. The road was constructed in 33 separate sections and this method of construction
is considered reasonable. It was noticed from site inspections that the pavement has shown some signs of
asphalt fatigue. It is also noted that the work was still under defect period at the time and areas were being
repaired. It is recommended that the work be checked carefully before acceptance.

3.         Economic Rate of Return

Basic Evaluation
The results of the economic evaluation are shown in Table E.1 summarized for the two main projects, as $
million, and discounted to base year values at 10%. All three projects are shown to be clearly viable, with
IRRs significantly above the target rate of 12%.


                Table E.1: Summary of Evaluation Results (Present Value at 10% in $mill)

                                Capital    Maint.      VOC         Pass.        Flood      NPV       IRR
                                  Cost      Cost     Savings       Time         Delay                (%)
                                Increase   Saving                Savings      Savings
       Vinh-Dong Ha               47.33        3.10       52.38       35.03        5.26    48.43      21.6
       Dong Ha- Quang Ngai        37.35        3.99       53.73       27.40        2.70    50.48      30.0


The Vinh - Dong Ha rehabilitation project was evaluated as a series of 15 separate road sections, each
representing a combination of pre-project surface roughness, traffic level, and project pavement type. All
the sections produced an IRR above 12%.

High rates of return for the cement concrete sections are the result of allocating the benefits of removing
flooding delays to those sections. Without these additional benefits, the higher capital costs and higher
levels of surface roughness after project implementation resulting in rates of return much lower than the
AC section with the same traffic level. This suggests that, although the costs of preventing flooding are
justified, the cement concrete pavement cannot be justified in comparison with AC.

The Dong Ha - Quang Ngai periodic maintenance and flood prone sections have been evaluated by section
in a similar way to the Vinh - Dong Ha project. Lower traffic levels and high costs per km for the road
sections from Dong Ha south to the Hai Van Pass result in much lower rates of return than for the areas to
the south of Da Nang, but they are above 12%.

The IRR for the Hai Van Pass section was only 1.2%, reflecting the diversion of a significant part of the
current traffic flow away from the section in 2005, following completion of the ongoing tunnel project. A
secondary reason is the lower benefit achieved on this section per vehicle-km, because the high degree of
gradient and curvature reduces speeds, and so does not enable the usual level of VOC and travel time
benefits from improved surface condition to be achieved.

The IRR for the Da Nang City section is very high, which reflects the high traffic level and the
improvement to four-lane standard, overstates the true rate of return. This is because there were capital
costs associated with the section in addition to those funded by the HRP 2 project. These have not yet been



                                                     - 21 -

determined, and would reduce the IRR if included in the evaluation.

The Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Flood Prone sections IRRs are all relatively high because the additional
benefits of removing delays from flooding have been allocated to these sections.

Sensitivity Tests. The IRRs of at least 20% indicate a significant margin. That is, they are likely to be
viable even if some of the input values or analysis applied have over-estimated the benefits. Sensitivity
tests have been carried out to show the impact of future traffic growth at 12% and 4% per year,
non-working passenger time and all passenger time values set at zero, and base case overlays given at the
beginning of the evaluation period. The results of the sensitivity tests are shown in Table E.2. As can be
seen, changing traffic growth has only a limited impact on the results.

                                 Table E.2: Sensitivity Test Results (IRR)

                                Main       Traffic Growth      Zero Value
                             Evaluation        (12%)               (4%)
 Vinh-Dong Ha                    21.6           24.1                19.2
 Dong Ha- Quang Ngai             30.0           33.0                26.6


4.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Vinh-Dong Ha Section

A.       Compliance with Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Requirements. The Vinh-Dong Ha
project has generally complied with the environmental assessment requirements of the Government of
Vietnam and the World Bank. An EIA Report was prepared in March 1996 prior to project
implementation. Key officials of MOSTE in Hanoi and DOSTE in the provinces of Ha Tinh, Quang Binh
and Quang Tri have also confirmed that this project was in compliance with environmental assessment
requirements.

However, environmental performance was not given priority during the construction period. The
contractors' compliance with measures to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts has been
unsatisfactory. The Consultants learnt that the contractors were not motivated in addressing and mitigating
the construction impacts despite the inclusion of the EMP and Sub-Clause 19.1 on safety, security and the
protection of the environment in the contract documents, as well as periodic reminders from the
construction supervision consultants (SMEC and Roughton International). In order to improve their
performance, the construction supervision consultants resorted to withholding of payments, suspension of
works, removal of workers from construction sites, and advising that works would be undertaken by other
parties at the contractors' cost. However, these measures had little or no impact on the contractors'
performance.

There are no monitoring records and reports to show the detailed compliance assessment of each of the 31
mitigation measures recommended in the EIA report. However, based on available documents, the
contractors have not satisfactorily addressed the following:

            Control dust generated from non-surfaced road sections and from the operation of quarry and
             batching plants;
            Proper disposal of waste soils from excavation of foundations for slope protection works at
             various sections of the road;



                                                    - 22 -

            Proper disposal of waste materials from bridge construction and rehabilitation works;
            Full provision of guardrails and road signs at school, market and other strategic locations of
             the road section;
            Rehabilitation and clean-up of asphalt plants, batching plants, construction camps and
             equipment maintenance sites;
            Replanting of grasses/shrubs/bushes to protect and promote the establishment of vegetation to
             control soil erosion in the sand dune areas;
            Control roadside development works that affected pavement and roadside drainage;
            Protection and maintenance of water flow in irrigation channels; and
            Maintenance of traffic control and safety management throughout the construction period.

The World Bank requested the construction supervision consultants to incorporate all outstanding
environmental concerns (clean-up and restoration of asphalt and batching plants, construction camps,
equipment sites including proper disposal of all waste materials from the construction sites) in the Defect
Lists that would be issued to the contractors. Should the contractors fail to comply with this requirement to
the satisfaction of the World Bank and PMU.1 within a given timeframe, a competent sub-contractor would
be appointed to complete the work at the expense of the contractors. The World Bank has also
recommended that PMU.1 and construction supervision consultants defer the issuance of the Completion of
the Defect Liability Certificates to the contractors in order to retain monetary leverage and to pay for the
site clean-up and restoration in the event that sub-contractors would be retained to complete the work.

During the interviews, the DOSTE officials have indicated that environmental monitoring was not carried
after the completion of the project.

B.       Compliance with Resettlement Planning and Implementation. A RAP was prepared for this
project consistent with all relevant laws and guidelines of the Government of Vietnam and the World Bank
Operational Directive 4.30 on involuntary resettlement. The RAP was based on socio-economic surveys in
April and November 1995 following the enforcement of Decree No. 36/CP on traffic safety, and the
outcome of the detailed measurement surveys undertaken from June to August 1996 to determine the
accurate losses of project affected persons (PAPs).

As indicated in the RAP, there are 8,487 households (37,764 persons) that will be affected by the project.
Of this total, 2,327 households (11,056 persons) will suffer impacts due to re-organization or relocation of
structures; 1,571 households (6,713 persons) will be affected by acquisition of residential land; and 4,589
households (19,995 persons) will be affected by agricultural and forestry land acquisition. It should be
noted, however, that based on the independent monitoring conducted by HGRC, the total number of
households affected by the project increased significantly from 8,487 in 1996 to 11,914 in 1998. This
increase reflected the results of the subsequent surveys conducted by PMU.1 and the local resettlement
authorities.

In 2001, a total of 19,353 households were afected by the project. Of this 13,562 households had land
affected, 5,791 households had structures affected. There were 33 public facilities affected by the project.

Consultations with the PAPs were undertaken during the preparation and implementation of the RAP.
There were instances where PAPs had complaints or grievances about inaccurate estimates of the extent
and compensation rates of affected or displaced assets. However, these complaints and grievances were
discussed and resolved amicably by the concerned parties.




                                                      - 23 -

Based on HGRC reports on resettlement and rehabilitation assistance monitoring, resettlement activities in
Quang Tri and Quang Binh provinces were carried out effectively and completed earlier than the expected
schedules. There were delays in Ha Tinh province due to some inconsistencies in guidance and instructions
from authorities at the various levels, and failure to quickly resolve concerns of some PAPs.

Overall, the Consultants believe that this project has complied satisfactorily with the resettlement
procedures and compensation programme for the affected households. Likewise, the project has also
achieved satisfactorily the expected outputs of the RAP. This was made possible through the close
collaboration and coordination among the concerned authorities of PMU.1 and the peoples' committees at
the provincial, district and commune levels. Key officials of the RAP departments in the provinces of Ha
Tinh, Quang Binh and Quang Tri as well the World Bank office in Hanoi have also rated the
implementation of resettlement procedures and compensation programme for this project as being
satisfactory.

C.       Impacts of the Road Rehabilitation Project. The overall impact of the Vinh-Dong Ha
rehabilitation project has been positive and its intended objectives have been met. All key informants have
also affirmed that this project has achieved its targets and has brought about mostly beneficial impacts to
people in the affected provinces, cities, towns, districts and communes. When asked to rate their current
income level, 81% of the total respondents acknowledged that they have a better level of income now than
before 1996. The remaining 19% indicated that there was no change over the last six years. It should be
noted though that 46% of the total respondents had also mentioned negative impacts. These were increased
noise from traffic (33%) and increased incidence of road accidents (13%).

Dong Ha-Quang Ngai Section

A.       Compliance with Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Requirements. This HRP2 road
section has complied with the environmental assessment requirements. The DOSTE officials in Quang Tri,
Thua Thien Hue and Quang Ngai have also confirmed that an EIA was carried out before the project was
implemented.

Similar to Vinh-Dong Ha, the environmental performance during the construction period was poor. The
contractors' compliance with environmental protection measures is also assessed as unsatisfactory despite
the inclusion of the EMP and Sub-Clause 19.1 on safety, security and the protection of the environment in
the contract documents. The construction supervision consultants (Hyder Consulting Limited, et al) have
been requested to monitor contractors' compliance with mitigation measures through inclusion of
environmental and safety measures in their monthly progress reports but this was not given due
consideration. The World Bank had requested the construction supervision consultants to incorporate all
outstanding environmental concerns in the Defect Lists that was issued to the contractors.

Based on available documents, the contractors have not satisfactorily addressed the following:

        Control dust generated from non-surfaced road sections and from the operation of aggregate
         crushing and concrete-mixing plants;
        Provision of proper canvas for the contractors' lorries transporting soil, aggregate and asphalt to
         work areas;
        Proper disposal of waste soils from excavation of foundations for slope protection works at various
         sections of the road;
        Full provision of guardrails and road signs at school, market and other strategic locations of the



                                                      - 24 -

         road;
        Rehabilitation and clean-up of asphalt mixing plants, aggregate crushing plants, construction
         camps and equipment maintenance sites;
        Maintenance of water flow during culvert construction works; and
        Maintenance of traffic control and safety management throughout the construction period.

The DOSTE officials have also indicated during the interviews that there was no environmental monitoring
implemented for those road sections that have already been completed.

B.        Compliance with Resettlement Planning and Implementation. This project involved periodic
road maintenance and improvement works in 10 flood-prone sections. There were no resettlement activities
undertaken for this road section. However, there were households whose structures, trees and crops,
homestead and agricultural land have been affected by the road improvement works in the 10 flood-prone
areas. A RAP was also prepared based on detailed measurement surveys conducted by PMU.1 and the
local resettlement committees.

A total of 515 households living along the 10 flood-prone areas in the provinces of Quang Ngai, Thua
Thien Hue and Quang Tri were affected by the project. Of this total, 264 households had structures and
homestead land affected, while the remaining 251 households had their agricultural land and trees on land
affected.

The Consultants believe that this project has complied satisfactorily in the implementation of the
compensation programme for the affected households. This was made possible through the joint
collaboration and close coordination of PMU.1 and the resettlement committees at the provincial, district
and commune levels.

Consultations with the affected households were conducted during the implementation of the project. There
were also instances where affected households had complaints or grievances about the legality of
classification as affected households (as in the case in Phong Dien district), as well as inaccurate estimates
of the extent and compensation rates of affected or displaced assets. However, these complaints and
grievances were discussed and resolved by the affected households and the local authorities.

Based on HGRC monitoring reports, most of the affected households in the 10 flood-prone sections were
satisfied with the compensation provided by the project. It was learnt that the compensation prices for
homestead land as well as trees and agricultural crops in all flood-prone sections were generally consistent
with prevailing market prices. As for the affected structures, compensation price was assessed as being 1.2
to 1.5 times higher than their real values. It was reported though that there was a need to regulate the
compensation price for agricultural land in Thua Thien Hue province to be comparable with the other
flood-prone areas of HRP2.

Key officials of the RAP departments in Quang Tri, Thua Thien Hue and Quang Ngai have also rated the
implementation of the compensation programme for affected households in their areas of jurisdiction as
being satisfactory.

C.        Impacts of the Road Rehabilitation Project. Overall, the periodic maintenance and improvement
works for this road package have achieved positive impacts and the project objectives have been met. All
key officials of the RAP departments and DOSTE offices in the provinces of Quang Tri, Thua Thien Hue
and Quang Ngai have also assessed that this project has achieved its targets and has brought about mostly



                                                     - 25 -

beneficial impacts to people in the affected areas. When asked to assess their current income level,
two-thirds (66%) of the total respondents declared that they have a better income now compared to six
years ago, 32% stated that there was no change, and the remaining 2% had no response. There were 38
respondents (39%) who claimed that there were also negative effects. These were increased noise from
traffic (33%) and increased incidence of road accidents (6%).

Recommendations

Based on the results and findings, and in order to further improve performance in future road projects, the
following actions are recommended:

    Environmental Aspects

        Strengthen capacity in construction supervision of environmental matters and concerns. There is
         an urgent need for the Environmental Team of PMU.1 to undergo environmental training, such as
         carrying out EIA studies, monitoring implementation of mitigation measures, and preparation of
         environmental reports;
        Incorporate and strictly enforce Environmental Management Plans in contracts for contractors, and
         disbursements of contract payments should be tied up to environmental performance;
        Conduct monitoring during construction to determine compliance of contractors and to assess the
         effectiveness of mitigation measures indicated in the EIA report;
        Conduct post-construction audits to determine outstanding environmental issues and concerns and
         determine whether site clean up and rehabilitation are required;
        Prepare and maintain a database of all environmental monitoring activities.

    Social Aspects

        Consistently implement resettlement and compensation guidelines at all levels (provincial, town,
         district and commune). There is a need for additional training of some members of resettlement
         committees in order to implement guidelines in an objective manner;
        Impose a fixed cut-off date for the listing of PAPs to have a more accurate listing of PAPs and to
         minimize if not avoid complaints and grievances during implementation;
        As much as possible, make all compensation rates of affected structures and affected lands
         consistent with prevailing market prices;
        Provide timely compensation payments for PAPs to avoid delays in construction schedules;
        Where applicable, undertake consultation with PAPs on the location and design of resettlement
         sites;
        Properly design and implement training programmes for affected households. Training needs
         assessment, skills inventory, job/work availability and other support services should be considered;
        Promote road safety at all times to minimise the occurrence of accidents. This could be made
         possible through continuous information and education campaign (IEC) programmes, proper
         maintenance of road markings and signs, strict enforcement of traffic regulations, check points, and
         penalty system for offending drivers and transport companies;
        Undertake monitoring and evaluation of resettlement activities and rehabilitation assistance of
         affected households to assess its effectiveness and to generate information required in further
         refining resettlement and rehabilitation assistance programmes and guidelines.




                                                     - 26 -

5.       Lessons Learned

A number of lessons relating the HRP projects were learnt from undertaking the evaluation and monitoring
exercise.
 i. Overall economic viability is unlikely to be in doubt for civil works to rehabilitate or maintain major
     roads that are carrying several thousand vehicles a day. Unless there is a rapid failure of the road
     surface the benefits of such work will normally justify the cost over a short period. Predicting future
     pavement condition is critical to an accurate assessment of economic performance. All projects should
     include an allowance to measure the pavement performance indicators (IRI and Benkelman Beam tests
     for both maximum deflection and curvature). This work can be included as a provisional sum in the
     contract so that the work can be undertaken by the employer rather than the contractor.

ii. Upgrading to higher design standards rather than rehabilitation should be considered where traffic
     levels are high. The HRP 1 funded HCMC - Can Tho rehabilitation project was not considered in this
     Study, but the 40 km widening work to Trung Luong Junction, using domestic funds, that was initiated
     soon after the rehabilitation was completed, suggests that a higher standard should have been
     considered for the HRP 1 work. The provision of by-passes to avoid urban and other densely
     populated areas should have been considered as part of the HRP 2 appraisal process, so that foreign
     planning assistance and funding could be made available for such works.

iii. Performance by contractors in terms of compliance with measures to mitigate adverse environmental
     impacts during construction needs to be improved. Similarly, the contractors need to reduce the severe
     disruption to traffic during construction, caused by the poor condition of the route provided for traffic
     whilst rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works are ongoing.

iv. Data requirements for road management, project appraisal and evaluation should be reviewed. In
     theory comprehensive traffic and road data are collected on a regular basis, but the quality and
     availability of these need to be improved. The requirement to collect traffic data on a monthly basis at
     many sites could be reduced, but with a greater effort to supervise data collection and to ensure that
     data are stored and made available for road planning purposes. Automatic traffic counters, bump
     integrators, FWDs, and other road monitoring equipment supplied, should be used on a regular basis
     and the results made available at central level.

 v. Project targets such as reductions in the number of accidents and the incidence of vehicle overloading
     are unlikely to be achieved without specific action to improve the enforcement of regulations.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) reduced vehicle operating costs (VOCs)
measured by
(i) road roughness through International         3 IRI on all four rehabilitation contracts on  2.5 IRI was recorded along Vinh - Dong Ha,
Roughness Index                                  Highway No. 1                                  as measured in January 2003

(ii) reduced tariffs for transport of passengers (ii) (a) passengers tariffs reduced by 5% in   (ii) (a) Rates between Vinh and Dong Ha
and goods in real terms;                         real terms                                     increased about 12% in real terms

                                                 (ii) (b) freight tariffs for                   (ii) (b) market freight rates reduced by 4% in
                                                 rice/Petroleum/Cement reduced by 5% in real real terms
                                                 terms

(iii) increased travel speed.                    Travel time by bus reduced by 10%              Bus travel time reduced 35%

                                                 Travel speed (km/h) Car Bus Truck              Travel speed (km/h) Car Bus Truck
                                                 Vinh-Gianh F.             65 55   50           Vinh - Dong Hoi             NA 52.5 46
                                                 Gianh F.-Dong Ha          65 55    50          Dong Hoi - Dong Ha          NA 52.5 49



(b) enhance efficiency in carrying out periodic
maintenance measured by:
(i) increase in volume of periodic               at least 10% of PM of local funding is         12% of total periodic maintenance budget
maintenance undertaken by competitive            undertaken by competitive bidding              was open to competition. Only RMcs
bidding in absolute measure and as percent                                                      companies participated
of total periodic maintenance works
(ii) reduced vehicle operating cost in real      IRI < 3 on Asphalt concrete pavement (AC)      AC =NA
terms measured by road roughness IRI             IRI < 5 on Bituminous surface treatment        BST = NA
(m/km)                                           (BST)                                          Gravel = NA
                                                 IRI < 4.5 on Gravel roads
(c) reduction in annual number of accidents      reduction of 20% of each accidents and         No finite data available. Data suggests that
and fatalities measured on Highway 1             fatalities                                     there is not a reduction in accidents
sections in Ha Tinh and Dong Hoi provinces.
(d) reduced overloading in % of checked          reduction of 5% in % of vehicles checked       Overloaded Vehicles have increased form
vehicles and in % overloading over legal axle reduction of 10% in % excess of legal load        6% to 12% range (vehicle type 3 axle) and
loads measured annually at permanent                                                            axle load overloaded increased from 24% to
weighstation along Vinh-Dong Ha.                                                                30% (vehicle type 3 axle)
(e) enhance institutional capacity in EIA and    at least 40% of road projects by MOT have      EIA Guidelines established. No EIAs or
monitoring measured through EIA guidelines EIA done in-house by 2001                            monitoring activities were conducted.
for road projects prepared and EIAs regularly
conducted and monitored.

NOTE: NA = Not available
Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Civil works completed on Highway 1 %             100                                            100
PAP resettled %                                  100                                            100
Roads under periodic maintenance in km           750                                            833
Improved hazardous sections in %                 100                                            0
Equipment for PMU1 purchased                     100                                            100
Equipment for Vietnam Road Administration        100                                            50
(VRA) and Regional Road Management
Units (RRMU) purchased
Completed training components                    100                                            65

1End of project




                                                                       - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Road Rehabilitation                                     121.44         109.83             90.4
B. Periodic Maintenance                                     60.50          85.99            142.1
C. Improvement to Hazardous Road Sections                    1.00            0.00               0
D. Support to PMU1                                           2.01            1.38            68.7
E. Support to VRA, RRMUs                                     5.20            3.74            71.9
F. Training                                                  1.00            0.75              75
G. Studies                                                   3.00            0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        194.15         201.69
 Physical Contingencies                                     13.38
 Price Contingencies                                        29.12
                        Total Project Costs                236.65         201.69
                  Total Financing Required                 236.65         201.69


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                         148.09            42.22         2.09         14.76        207.16
                                (133.94)          (38.14)      (2.06)         (0.00)      (174.14)
2. Goods                          5.52              0.00         0.35         0.00          5.87
                                  (5.37)           (0.00)      (0.23)         (0.00)       (5.60)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        15.23         0.00         15.23
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (14.71)        (0.00)      (14.71)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         1.15         0.00          1.15
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.15)         (0.00)       (1.15)
5. Land Acquisition &             0.00              0.00         0.00         6.56          6.56
Compensation                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. PMU1 Operating Costs           0.00              0.00         0.00         0.70          0.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         153.61            42.22        18.82         22.02        236.67
                                (139.31)          (38.14)      (18.15)        (0.00)      (195.60)




                                                - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                               138.22             36.15              0.00             6.00             180.37
                                         (124.40)           (32.90)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (157.30)
   2. Goods                                3.91               0.00              0.00             0.00              3.91
                                          (3.91)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.91)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             11.65             0.00             11.65
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.65)            (0.00)           (11.65)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.75             0.00              0.75
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.75)            (0.00)           (0.75)
   5. Land Acquisition &                   0.00               0.00              0.00             4.60              4.60
   Compensation                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. PMU1 Operating Costs                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                              142.13             36.15             12.40             10.60            201.28
                                         (128.31)           (32.90)           (12.40)            (0.00)          (173.61)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Road Rehabilitation        115.30       32.76                    90.01         19.83                 78.1      60.5
B. Periodic Maintenance       67.20         6.95                    77.81         8.18                  115.8    117.7
C. Improvement to              1.11         0.12                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Hazardous Road Sections
D. Support to PMU1             1.45         0.90                     1.31         0.07                  90.3      7.8
E. Support to VRA,             5.86         0.20                     3.74         0.00                  63.8      0.0
RRMUs
F. Training                    1.15         0.00                     0.75         0.00                  65.2      0.0
G. Studies                     3.33         0.12                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS

The general approach used for the evaluation of the civil works component of the HRP projects followed
conventional economic appraisal methodology for road projects. That is, it compared the situation
occurring with the project improvements to the roads, and the situation that is most likely to have occurred
if the project had not been implemented. These situations are often referred to as the "with project case"
and the "without project case" respectively. The "without project case" can also be referred to as the "base
case", because it is the alternative against which the project is compared. Being an analysis of completed
projects, actual construction costs and also, for at least part of the analysis period, observed traffic levels
and indicators of road condition can be used for the "with project case", rather than relying on forecasts
and projections as in a feasibility study. However, the principles of the process are exactly the same as in a
feasibility study.

The evaluation takes into account factors that can be quantified, such as the road construction and
maintenance costs, traffic levels, and the potential level of benefit in terms of cost savings to road users.
The evaluation period was 12 years.

The evaluations have been carried out using the HDM-4 model. This model simulates for each road
section, year-by-year, the road condition and resources used for maintenance under a specified strategy, as
well as the vehicle speeds and physical resources consumed by vehicle operation. Physical quantities
involved in construction, road works and vehicle operation are estimated. Then user-specified prices and
unit costs are applied to determine the costs involved in monetary terms. Benefits are calculated for
different alternatives by comparing costs in the "with project" alternatives with costs in the "base case".
Finally, present value and rate of return computations are carried out to indicate the economic viability of
project alternatives. Thus, the economic returns from road investment are determined, taking into account
the level of the construction and road maintenance costs, and savings in road user costs due to the provision
of a better road facility. The 1.3 version of HDM-4 was used for the evaluation analysis.

Vinh - Dong Ha Rehabilitation Project

The HRP 2 civil work on the 292 km Vinh - Dong Ha section of NH1 consists of rehabilitation on the
original alignment. The general standard is a 12 meter asphalted concrete (AC) pavement, consisting of a 7
meter carriageway plus 2.5 meter paved shoulders, but with short sections of divided four-lane road in the
urban areas of Hong Linh, Dong Hoi and Dong Ha. The previous standard was generally a 7 meter
penetration macadam pavement. In areas subject to flooding the road bed was typically raised by 1 meter
and the embankment strengthened as part of the rehabilitation, to lessen the incidence of flooding and
reduce future maintenance requirements. A cement concrete pavement was provided in ten short sections,
all but one in flood prone areas, with a total length of 16.7 km.

The completed project is generally homogeneous in terms of the type of works and standard. However key
factors in the evaluation are the standard and condition of the road before the project, and the level of
traffic. Thus it was not possible to consider the section as a single project for evaluation purposes. It was
necessary for it to be divided into separate sub-sections, each being reasonably homogenous in terms of the
key input parameters, principally the pre-project surface roughness and the traffic level.

Each of these groups was further subdivided according to the estimated level of traffic. Three traffic bands
were used. The different traffic bands used in the evaluation are shown in Table 3.1, with the AADT



                                                      - 31 -

shown as 2003 levels.

                Table 3.1: Vinh - Dong Ha Traffic Bands (2003 Traffic Levels in AADT)

 Traffic             From            km           To           km      Vehicles     Motorcycles
  Band
    A          Vinh                  463      Cam Xuyen        528      3,100           4,500
    B          Cam Xuyen             528      Dong Hoi         660      2,200           2,000
    C          Dong Hoi              660      Dong Ha          756      3,000           2,200

Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Periodic Maintenance Project

A total of 230 km of the 289 km of NH1 from km 756 at Dong Ha to km 1045 in Quang Ngai Province is
included in the HRP 2 Periodic Maintenance Project. These works are not in continuous sections. There
are a total of 33 separate periodic maintenance sections that alternate with short sections of other projects,
including those of the HRP 2 Severely Flood Prone Sections discussed below. Individual sections range in
length from 48 km to less than 500 metres.

Although designated as periodic maintenance, the work undertaken was more substantial than the usual
concept of periodic maintenance, involving the sub-base and base courses. It is of a similar standard to the
rehabilitation carried out on the Vinh to Dong Ha section, except that the overall pavement width is less.
The general standard is a 10 meter wide AC pavement, consisting of a 7 meter carriageway and two 1.5
meter paved shoulders.

Four basic traffic bands were used for the evaluation of sub-sections on the Dong Ha to Quang Ngai
section of NH1, with separate traffic data used for the Hai Van Pass and Da Nang sub-section. These are
shown in Table 3.2, with the AADT shown as 2003 levels.


             Table 3.2: Dong Ha-Quang Ngai Traffic Bands (2003 Traffic Levels in AADT)

 Traffic            From            km           To            km      Vehicles     Motorcycles
  Band
    D       Dong Ha                 756 Hue                    833       3,000           2,500
     E      Hue                     833 Hai Van Pass           894       2,500           1,500
     F      Hai Van Pass            894 Hai Van Pass           914       2,500           300
    G       Da Nang City            914 Da Nang City           927       3,750          12,500
    H       Da Nang                 927 Vinh Dien              948       5,000           8,000
     I      Vinh Dien               948 km 1045                1045      3,200           5,000

Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Severely Flood Prone Sections Project

Short sections of the road between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai identified as being prone to flooding were
excluded from the original scope of the HRP 2 Periodic Maintenance Project. These sections were intended
to be improved during the subsequent MTFP project. However, following particularly severe flooding in
1999, a request was made to utilize unallocated loan funds to include the most severely flood prone sections
in the HRP2 Project. As a result, nine sections of flood prone road between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai,
with a total length of 10.5 km were included in the HRP2 Project. The standard of work is similar to that
of the periodic maintenance project sections, except that the total width of the AC pavement is 11 meters,
and the road has been raised by approximately 1 meter to prevent flooding of the road except by floods



                                                    - 32 -

occurring at more than 10-year intervals. The edges of the embankment are protected to prevent erosion
during flooding.

The nine sections were evaluated in three groups according to the traffic levels for the Dong Ha to Quang
Ngai section as shown in Table 3.2. Separate pre-project levels of roughness were used for the three
groups, as shown in Table 3.3.

                    Table 3.3: Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Flood Prone Sections Evaluated

  ID No.                    Type                     IRI        Length (km)     Traffic Band
     64               Flooding Section               4.3               4              D
     65               Flooding Section               2.6               3              E
     66               Flooding Section               4.8               4              I
    Total                                                             10

B. BASE CASE

The main assumption for the "base case" used to define the without project situation for the rehabilitation
and maintenance projects is that the existing roads would receive a 5 cm AC overlay when roughness
reached a level of IRI 6 or more. This would initially restore the surface condition to a roughness level of
IRI 3, similar to that achieved by the HRP2 works. It was assumed that this overlay would be applied to
different sections in stages over a number of years, with the roughest sections of the road implemented first.



C. PROJECT COSTS

The main component of project costs is the civil works cost, but land acquisition and resettlement costs,
plus design and construction supervision costs are also project costs and need to be considered.

The civil works cost item included in the economic evaluation is, in most cases, the cost of rehabilitation or
periodic maintenance of the original road. Civil works costs have been taken from the final contract
payments, or the latest estimates of final costs as in the case of the Dong Ha - Quang Ngai section. These
costs, which are shown in Table 3.4, are significantly higher than the costs estimated at appraisal stage and
the original contract costs in most cases.

                              Table 3.4: Summary of Works Contract Values
          Project/Contract             From            To        Length      Cost
                                       (km)          (km)          (km)      (VND
                                                                            million)
Vinh - Dong Ha Rehabilitation:                                     291.2     1,201,276
    Contract 1                             463.6         528.6         65.1   292,613
    Contract 2                             528.6         624.9         96.3   354,186
    Contract 3                             626.1         670.8         44.7   195,819
    Contract 4                             670.9         756.1         85.1   358,659
Dong Ha - Quang Ngai:
 Periodic maintenance contracts                                      229.8    680,063
    Contract 1                             756.1         833.0         57.4   208,388
    Contract 2                             833.0         904.6         66.3   220,509
    Contract 3                             904.6         960.0         38.7    99,869
    Contract 4                             960.0       1,045.0         67.4   151,296



                                                     - 33 -

 Severely flood prone sections                                        10.5       41,654
     Contract 1                              762.8        794.3         3.4      14,943
     Contract 2                              795.7        878.8         4.2      17,905
     Contract 3                           1,032.5       1,043.0         3.0       9,702


The costs shown include the costs of the replacement and repair of minor bridges. In the case of the Vinh -
Dong Ha section these costs amount to VND 71 billion, or almost 6% of the total contract cost. The bridge
costs are negligible in the case of the periodic maintenance contracts on the Dong Ha - Quang Ngai section.
Details are not currently available for the severely flood prone sections, but bridge costs would form a
substantial part of the total. In all cases the bridgeworks have been considered an integral part of the
projects and the associated costs included as part of project.

In the case of the rehabilitation of the Vinh - Dong Ha section, the costs include those of the ten cement
concrete sections, which had a combined length of 16.7 km. The exact cost of these cannot be separated
from those of the rest of the contracts, but the paving costs suggest that the average cost of these sections
was generally at least 30% higher than the typical cost of the asphalted concrete (AC) sections. An
exception was the 2.7 km section of cement concrete road in Dong Hoi town, which has four lanes and a
per km cost almost double the typical cost for Vinh - Dong Ha.

For evaluation purposes these costs need to be expressed in economic terms. A standard conversion factor
of 0.93 has been developed in Vietnam and has been used in similar studies. This factor has been applied
to all civil works cost items, reducing the economic cost of road works to 93% of the financial costs shown.


Land acquisition and resettlement costs . On the Vinh - Dong Ha section they add approximately 5% to the
civil works costs, reflecting that the rehabilitation involved widening to a 12 meter pavement. The Dong
Ha - Quang Ngai periodic maintenance project was largely carried out within the existing right of way, and
land acquisition and resettlement costs are negligible compared with the civil works costs. It is believed
that virtually all of these costs were incurred on the severely flood prone sections, for which some
additional land was required. If the costs shown are applied only the severely flood prone sections they also
add 5% to the civil works cost. However the costs shown do not include all land and relocation costs for
the Dong Ha - Quang Ngai section. In Da Nang City there were probably significant costs, but these were
not administered by PMU.1, and it has not been possible to determine the level of costs. Local funding was
also used for the civil works cost for the road section in Da Nang City in addition to HRP 2 funds.

D. BENEFITS

Benefits for each road section have been considered over the period from the year following completion of
works, to the end of the 12-year evaluation period. No potential benefits obtained prior to this, for example
from partial completion of the section, have been included in the analysis. Similarly, no costs to road users
caused by disruptions to traffic during the construction period have been included, although significant
disruption to traffic was caused by the HRP2 works. In the case of the rehabilitation works on Vinh -
Dong Ha, where the construction period was over three years, from 1999 to 2001, the benefit period is nine
years. In the case of the works on the section Dong Ha to Quang Ngai, which were implemented over two
years starting in 2000 or 2001, the benefit period is ten years.
The types of benefit which have been quantified and incorporated in the economic evaluation of projects
are: Vehicle operating cost savings, Passenger time savings, Flood delay cost savings, and Maintenance
cost savings.




                                                       - 34 -

Flood Delay Cost Savings

Delay cost savings, associated with the reduction of road closure as a result of flooding have been
calculated externally to HDM-4, and then included as exogenous benefits in the HDM-4 economic analysis
for those sections where such benefits apply. A precise calculation of the benefits associated with
removing flood delays at several points is very complicated. It depends on the timing of closures, and the
reaction of vehicle operators to the closure. However an approximation can be made that is adequate to
indicate the scale of benefits. The benefits are significant in terms of the evaluation of the works over short
lengths of flood prone sections, but not in terms of the evaluation of the overall HRP2 projects.

At points on the project sections where the road was subject to flooding, and traffic flow was disrupted, the
works carried under HRP2 included the raising of the road bed, and the strengthening of the embankment.
This work was designed to overcome the level of flooding likely within a 10-year period. Information on
the incidence of flooding on the Vinh to Dong Ha section before the project was implemented is available
from the feasibility study of the rehabilitation of that section Second Highway Rehabilitation Project -
Highway No. 1 between Vinh and Dong Ha -Feasibility and Detailed Engineering Studies,
Dessau-Experco, May 1995.. For the Dong Ha to Quang Ngai section the same information is available
from two reports Flood Mitigation Project Highway No. 1 between Dong Ha and Quang Ngai -
Feasibility Study of Severly Flooded Sections, Transport Engineering Design Inc (TEDI), July 1998.&
Third Highway Rehabilitation Project- Economic Assessment of Flood Mitigation Options for the Dong
Ha to Quang Ngai Section of Highway No., APECO, Maunsell, June 1999 that examined the benefits of
reducing the incidence of flooding. These reports indicate that, for both sections, over a 10-year period
there was typically flooding two to three times a year, and on each occasion the road was closed on average
for 2-4 days. An average closure period of five days per year has been used. This is a conservative figure.
Longer periods of closure occurred at times of exceptional flooding. Also the flooding did not occur at the
same time at all the flood prone areas. Therefore, over the period of a year the road was closed for longer
than the closure at any one point.

The HR 2 funded work on severely flood prone areas on the Dong Ha - Quang Ngai section involves
improvement at nine separate locations. However flood prone areas remain at 18 other locations that are to
be improved under the MTFP project. The benefits applied to the HRP2 improvements have been reduced
until 2005, when it is expected that the completion of the MTFP project and all significant flood prone
areas will have been upgraded. Until that happens there will be times when the road remains closed to
traffic because of flooding, and the full benefits of the road being open in the HRP2 areas will not be
obtained.

E. EVALUATION RESULTS

The results of the economic evaluation are shown in the following series of tables. In Table 3.5 the results
are summarized for the two main projects. In this Table the values of the main components are shown as $
million, discounted to base year values at 10%, with the overall Internal Rate of Return (IRR) shown in the
final column. The Net Present Value (NPV) is the sum of all savings minus the capital cost. All three
projects are shown to be viable, with IRRs significantly above the target rate of 12%.




                                                      - 35 -

               Table 3.5: Summary of Evaluation Results (Present Value at 10% in $mill)

                          Capital    Maint.       VOC       Pass. Time      Flood      NPV      IRR
                            Cost       Cost       Savings     Savings       Delay               (%)
                          Increase   Saving                                Savings
 Vinh-Dong Ha               47.33         3.10      52.38         35.03         5.26   48.43   21.6
 Dong Ha- Quang Ngai        37.35         3.99      53.73         27.40         2.70   50.48   30.0


The Vinh - Dong Ha rehabilitation project was evaluated as a series of 15 separate road sections, each
representing a combination of pre-project surface roughness, traffic level, and project pavement type. The
purpose of this analysis was to determine if particular sections of the project had significantly higher of
lower rates of return than others. As would be expected the higher traffic levels in Traffic Band A (Vinh to
Cam Xuyen) produce higher rates of return. The IRR of each section is shown in Table 3.6. It should be
noted that the IRRs are lowest of the sections where the pre-project surface condition was the roughest (IRI
>7). This is the opposite of what would normally be expected. The reason is that it was assumed that in
the base case these roughest sections would be the first to receive an overlay as part of the regular
maintenance of the road. The overlay would have reduced roughness levels similar to those achieved with
implementation of the HRP 2 rehabilitation project, significantly reducing the benefits. In the case of the
other sections the road would have deteriorated over several years in the base case before an overlay was
provided, resulting in increasing roughness and so increasing benefits of the project.

The high rates of return for the cement concrete sections are the result of allocating the benefits of
removing flooding delays to those sections. Without these additional benefits, the higher capital costs and
higher levels of surface roughness after project implementation result in rates of return much lower than the
AC sections with the same traffic level. This suggests that the costs of preventing flooding are justified.
However, although the cement concrete pavement will be better able to withstand flooding, this is
considered to be only a minor advantage if the raising of the road as part of the project has prevented most
occurrences of flooding. Therefore, the use of a cement concrete pavement appears not be justified
economically in comparison with an AC pavement.


                              Table 3.6: Vinh - Dong Ha Road Section IRRs

 ID No.         Type                Traffic Band      Length (km)        IRR (%)
    1       Roughness >7                 A                 1                20.0
    2       Roughness 5 to 7             A                 13               36.5
    3       Roughness 3 to 5             A                 26               33.8
    4       Roughness <3                 A                 20               32.4
    5       Concrete                     A                 6                32.4
    6       Roughness >7                  B                30               12.3
    7       Roughness 5 to 7              B                56               16.8
    8       Roughness 3 to 5              B                35               14.9
    9       Roughness <3                  B                8                13.9
    10      Concrete                      B                2                41.2
    11      Roughness >7                  C                28               14.2
    12      Roughness 5 to 7              C                38               21.3
    13      Roughness 3 to 5              C                15               20.4
    14      Roughness <3                  C                8                19.3
    15      Concrete                      C                6                25.2
  Total                                                   292



                                                    - 36 -

The Dong Ha - Quang Ngai periodic maintenance and flood prone sections have been evaluated by section
in a similar way to the Vinh - Dong Ha project. The resulting IRRs for the road sections are shown in
Table 3.7 and Table 3.8, respectively. The lower traffic levels and high costs per km for Traffic Bands D
and E (the road sections from Dong Ha south to the Hai Van Pass) result in much lower rates of return
than for the areas to the south of Da Nang. Benefit levels per vehicle-km for the Dong Ha - Quang Ngai
section are generally lower than those for Vinh - Dong Ha, largely because the lower design standard
results in lower benefits in the form of time saving benefits. This is because the friction effects of road side
activity and non-motorized traffic on vehicle speed were not reduced significantly by the project. In other
words, the project improvement above the standard in the base case is less than on the Vinh - Dong Ha
section. However the lower capital cost results in similar rates of return.

The very low IRR for the Hai Van Pass section results from the diversion of a significant part of the
current traffic flow away from the section in 2005, following completion of the ongoing tunnel project. A
secondary reason is the lower benefit achieved on this section per vehicle-km, because the high degree of
gradient and curvature reduces speeds, and so does not enable the usual level of VOC and travel time
benefits from improved surface condition to be achieved.

The high IRR for the Da Nang City section, which reflects the high traffic level and the improvement to
four-lane standard, overstates the true rate of return. This is because there were capital costs associated
with the section in addition to those funded by the HRP2 project. These have not yet been determined, and
would reduce the IRR if included in the evaluation.

                       Table 3.7: Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Maintenance Section IRRs

 ID No.           Type                           Traffic Band    Length (km)     IRR (%)
    51       Roughness <3                              D               3            16.1
    52       Roughness 3 to 5                          D              40            17.2
    53       Roughness 5 to 7                          D              15            19.1
    54       Roughness <3                              E              14             8.2
    55       Roughness 3 to 5                          E              25            11.6
    56       Roughness 5 to 7                          E              19            13.8
    57       Hai Van Pass (km894-914)                  F              20             1.2
    58       Da Nang City (km914-927)                  G              13            56.5
    59       Roughness <3                              H               8            67.6
    60       Roughness 3 to 5                          H               4            89.0
    61       Roughness <3                              I              38            42.7
    62       Roughness 3 to 5                          I               9            58.8
    63       Roughness 5 to 7                          I              21            59.3
   Total                                                             230

The Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Flood Prone sections IRRs are all relatively high because the additional
benefits of removing delays from flooding have been allocated to these sections.




                                                     - 37 -

                      Table 3.8: Dong Ha - Quang Ngai Flood Prone Sections IRRs

   ID No.         Location                Traffic Band      Length (km)      IRR (%)
     64       km 762.8 to 794.3                  D                4             30.4
     65       km 795.7 to 878.8                  E                3             25.5
     66       km 1,032.5 to 1,043.0              I                4             62.8
    Total                                                       10

G. SENSITIVITY TESTS

Sensitivity tests have been carried out to show the impact of varying inputs and assumptions where there is
most uncertainty. These are the rate of future traffic growth, the value of passenger time savings, and the
timing of overlays applied in the base case. The tests were carried out with future traffic growth at 12%
and 4% per year, non-working passenger time and all passenger time values set at zero, and base case
overlays given at the beginning of the evaluation period. The test with all passenger time valued at zero
was an extreme test to show the level of return with a major decrease in benefits.

The results of the sensitivity tests are shown in Table 3.9 in terms of the IRR, together with those of the
main evaluation for comparison. As can be seen, changing traffic growth has only a limited impact on the
results. If all time values are set to zero the IRRs are much reduced, as would be expected. If it assumed
that an AC overlay is given to the existing road at the beginning of the evaluation period there is little
change in the IRR. This is because, although the surface would be improved initially to a similar standard
to those achieved with the HRP2 works, such overlays would deteriorate more rapidly than the HRP2
surface. Thus the with project case will have less roughness than the base case over the evaluation period.


                                  Table 3.9: Sensitivity Test Results (IRR)

                                Main         Traffic Growth      Zero Value
                             Evaluation          (12%)             (4%)
 Vinh-Dong Ha                   21.6              24.1              19.2
 Dong Ha- Quang Ngai            30.0              33.0              26.6




                                                      - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification
              08/13/1993                2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/3/1993                 1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              Preparation
              09/11/1995                6    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             PUBLIC FINANCE SPEC. (1)
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE ENG. (1)
                                             UPBAN PLANNING SPEC.
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
                                             SENIOR TRANSP. ENG. (1)
              12/16/1995                5    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE ENG. (1)
                                             UPBAN PLANNING SPEC.
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
                                             SENIOR TRANSP. ENG. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal
              12/12/1996              15     TEAM LEADER (1)
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (2)
                                             TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST,
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1)
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                                             (2)
                                             SR. LEGAL COUNSEL (1)
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (2)
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (2)
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
                                             TASK ASSISTANT (2)
              Negotiation
              01/13/1997                1    TEAM LEADER

 Supervision

              07/03/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              10/10/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S



                                              - 39 -

                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
03/12/1999    4 TASK MANAGER (1);                S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
07/14/1999    5 TTL (1); SR. ENVIR. SPEC. (1);   U    S
                OPER. OFFR. (1);
                RESETTLMT. SPEC. (1); SR.
                FINANC. SPEC. (1)
11/05/1999    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SR ENVIRON SPECIALIST (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPECIALST
                (2); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                RESETTLEMENT OFFICER (1)
05/05/2000    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPECIALST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1);
                RESETTLEMENT OFFICER
                (1); ECONOMIST OFFICER (1)
03/24/2001    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                RESETTLMNT SPECIALIST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (2); RESETTLEMENT
                OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                OPERATIONS (1)
12/14/2001    8 TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.        S    S
                TRANSPORT ECON. (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPECIALST
                (1); SR. ENVIRON
                SPECIALIST (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                RESETTLEMENT OFFICER
                (1); SOCIAL DEVELOP
                SPECLST (1); FINANCIAL
                MGMT SP. (1)
07/05/2002    7 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);        S    S
                HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                RESETTLEMENT SPECIALST
                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                (1); RESETTLEMENT
                OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                DEVLMNT SPCLST (1)
02/11/2003    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                TRANSPORT COORDINATOR
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                ANALYST (1); SR.
                ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1);



                - 40 -

                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1); OPEATIONS
                                           OFFICER (1)

 ICR
               07/24/2003             3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); ENVIRONEMNTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           154.1                         621.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 21.4                           92.6
  Supervision                          153.2                         456.3
  ICR                                   12.0                           37.5
  Total                                340.7                       1,208.0




                                            - 41 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Country Assistance Strategy for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Report No.15053 -VN, October
   25, 1995.

2. Staff Appraisal Report. Second Highway Rehabilitation Project. World Bank Report No. 16108-VN.
   February 28, 1997.

3. World Bank Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports for the period January 1998 to November
   2003.

4. Tehnical Assistance for Periodic Maintenance of National Highways. Final Report. Hyder
   Consultants. February 2002.

5. Implementation Completion Report (No. 23840-VN). Highway Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
   25490-VN). June 26, 2002.

6. Second Programme for Retraining of Road Sector Professionals. Final Report. SMEC in Association
   with International Pty. Ltd., Vietnam Bridge and Road Association and Hanoi University of Civil
   Engineers. June 2003.

7. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Report. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Study. Asia Pacific
   Engineering Consultants in association with Maunsell Group. July 2003.




                                                 - 44 -

- 45 -

