Report No. PIC2497
Project Name                   Viet Nam-Second Highway Rehabilitation...
Project
Region                          East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                          Transportation
Project ID                     VNPA4842
Borrower                        Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRVN)
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Transport
187b Tay Son, Hanoi, Vietnam
Contact: Mr. Pham Ngoc Thuy
General-Director of PMU1
Telephone: (84-4) 851-1278
Fax: (84-4) 852-1013
Date of Initial PID            August 12, 1994
Date of this PID                November 15, 1996
Appraisal Date                  November 25, 1996
Projected Board Date            February 25, 1997
Background
1.   Vietnam stretches over 1,600 km from the Chinese border in the
north to the Gulf of Thailand in the south. Its two densely populated
river deltas, the Red River Delta in the north and the Mekong Delta in
the south, which are some 1,0 km apart, are linked by a narrow land
strip defined by the mountainous border region to the west and the South
China Sea to the east. With 73.5 million people (1995), Vietnam is the
most populous country in Southeast Asia.
2.   The country has significant natural and skilled human resources and
a good potential for long-term economic development. In the last few
years, there have been radical structural changes in the economy
towards a market-based allocation of resources and, as a result, the
economy is growing at a healthy and sustainable 9-10w per year.
3.   To support its rapid economic growth, Vietnam needs a strong
transport sector, both in terms of physical infrastructure and the
quality of service provided. However, war damages and the subsequent
years of economic stagnation resulted in a transport system (road, rail,
river, maritime, air and pipeline) that is old, dilapidated and
unreliable and the transport fleet is obsolete. The classified road
network of about 106,000 km, with 15,000 km of paved roads, is basic,
but not out of line with a country of Vietnam's level of development.
Only 14t of   the roads can be considered to be in 'good' physical
condition.    Most densely populated places can be reached by inexpensive
water transport, and few towns are more than 50 km from the coast or one
of the 11,000 km of inland waterways. The road and water transport
systems are complemented by railways and major cities are served by air.



4.   Freight and passenger traffic volumes are low compared to most
countries. Road transport is by far the most widely used mode by
passengers and freight, with a share of about 60 - 70 percent of the
total. However, the highway system is generally in a poor condition due
to inadequate design standards, low technology construction and
antiquated equipment combined with inadequate quality control. Despite
recent substantial increases, the allocation of funds for rehabilitation
and maintenance is still below needs. The problem is compounded by the
general shortage of revenue, lack of appropriate criteria for
establishing road budgeting priorities and the absence of good road
management systems at all levels. This condition imposes high costs on
road users and constrains economic growth in the poorly served regions
of Vietnam.
5.   The Ministry of Transport (MOT) is responsible for the 11,300 km of
national highways. It oversees the Vietnam Roads Administration (VNRA)
and controls about 20 transport-related "Unions of Enterprises" which
are groupings of semi-autonomous companies under a common overall
management. Among them are four Regional Road Management Unions (RRMUs)
which are responsible for maintaining about 50t of the national highways
within their specified region (the Provincial Transport Authorities are
responsible for the other 50%-) and are thus similar to regional highway
departments in other countries. The RRMUs have skilled personnel, but
suffer from a severe technology gap due to Vietnam's long isolation from
international experience. Major reforms are presently underway within
MOT and its agencies.
Project Objectives
6.   The broader developmental goal of the proposed project is to raise
overall economic efficiency and support economic and social development
of the country through an improved transport infrastructure. The
specific objectives are to: (a) reduce transport costs through improved
national road infrastructure, particularly, Highway No. 1; (b) enhance
efficiency of the road sector institutions in periodic maintenance of
the national road network; (c) reduce vehicle overloading and improve
traffic safety; and (d) enhance institutional capacity of MOT in
environmental impact assessment and monitoring.
Project Description
7.   The project would comprise: (a) reconstruction of the Vinh-Dong
Ha section (290 km) of Highway 1 including bridges, land acquisition,
resettlement of project affected people, and supervision consultant
services; (b) periodic maintenance of selected priority national roads
(about 950 km) using competitive contracting methods; (c) improvement
of hazardous road sections to enhance traffic safety; (d) support to
the project management unit for Highway 1 (PMU1) including logistics,
office building, equipment and supplies and technical support for
project implementation, monitoring and evaluation; (e) strengthening
of Vietnam Roads Administration (VRA) and Regional Road Management
Unions (RRMUs) - which would include purchase of additional
maintenance equipment and construction of vehicle weighing stations;
(f) enhancing the skills of the highway sector manpower in road
agencies, design and research institutes and the construction industry
-2 -



through a program of specialized training; and (g) detailed design and
engineering studies. The project design is consistent with
Government's medium to long term objective of rehabilitating Highway 1
and other major trunk roads initially, followed in 10-15 years, by a
program of capacity expansion based on an adopted national road master
plan.
Project Cost and Financing
8.   The estimated total cost of the project is US$236.7 million
(including taxes, duties and contingencies) with a foreign exchange
component of US$193.9 million or 82 percent of total project cost.
Duties and taxes (including consultants' taxes) are estimated at
US$9.5 million (to be borne by the Borrower). IDA acting as
Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund (ITF) is expected to finance
US$195.6 million equivalent, or 83% of the total project cost (87% net
of taxes and duties) comprising approximately 88% for civil works, 6%
for implementation support and technical assistance, 3% for equipment
and vehicles, 2% for studies and 1% for training. The Government is
expected to cover US$41.1 million (17%) which includes full financing
of the two major bridges (US$ 14.8 million).
Implementation
9.   MOT would be responsible for overall project execution through
its project management unit, PMU1, which would also provide oversight
and supervision of contract management, technical assistance, studies
and training to be implemented by other agencies. VRA (through the
RRMUs) would be responsible for implementing the periodic maintenance
component except for ICB contracts which would be executed directly by
PMU1 for MOT. VRA would also be responsible for carrying out the axle
load control component of the project. All civil works in connection
with reconstruction of Vinh-Dong Ha road section, periodic maintenance
of selected sections of Highway 1 and maintenance equipment for RRMUs
would be procured on the basis of ICB. Periodic maintenance contracts
on other national highways and civil works in connection with the
construction of weigh stations, improvement of hazardous road sections
and the PMU1 operation center would be procured on the basis of NCB.
The project is expected to be completed within five years of its
inception.
10. The engineering design details, draft tender documents and pre-
qualification of contractors for the major civil works contracts have
been completed. Bids are expected to be invited in February/March
1997. PMU1 has prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) following
IDA guidelines and the document has been finalized during appraisal.
As a result of the first highway rehabilitation project, the
Vietnamese staff in the implementing agencies have gained much
experience and are technically qualified to implement a majority of
the project components. With international technical assistance and
advisory services provided under the project to bridge the gaps, no
substantive problems are foreseen in timely and efficient
implementation of the project.
Lessons from Previous Bank Operations
- 3-



11. The first road sector project, the Highway Rehabilitation
Project, Credit 49-VN, was declared effective June 13, 1994, after a
delay of six months due to initial problems with implementation of the
agreed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). These problems can be
attributed to lack of experience in dealing with the Bank and the
difficulty of applying different standards of compensation for
resettlement on different sections of the same road depending on the
source of financing. There were also budgetary concerns on the cost of
resettlement which led to the adoption of a non-cash alternative for
the creation of new assets which is now being offered to project
affected people. An inadequate legal and administrative base and
limited experience in procurement processing, a slow-moving
bureaucracy and heavily centralized decision-making, have affected
progress of the on-going operation. While improvements are expected to
be achieved under Credit 49-VN and through sector and economic work,
these are bound to be slow, and project implementation schedules have
therefore taken this into account. The establishment of a Project
Management Unit (PMU1) and the appointment of international
consultants to help train its staff and provide technical advice
through these initial phases have been helpful.
Stakeholder Participation
12. During pre-appraisal of the project in September 1995, a one-day
stakeholders' workshop was organized by MOT. The objective of the
workshop was to discuss and seek consensus on the objectives, design,
scope and implementation arrangements of the proposed project. The
workshop was attended by representatives of MPI (then SPC), MOF, the
State Bank, MOT, VRA, PMU1, RRMUs, relevant Provincial authorities,
state enterprises, domestic contractors, international consultants and
technical advisors relevant to the project. As a result of the
discussions at the workshop, the technical design of the project was
modified and the project objectives, scope and implementation
arrangements were strongly endorsed. Furthermore, the VRA and PMUl
participated actively in further preparation of the project and
elaborated the project implementation plan, terms of reference for
consultants and other aspects of the project.
Government Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
13. The project would be fully consistent with IDA's country
assistance strategy (Report No. 15053-VN) discussed by the Board on
October , 1995 (updated 1996) of supporting Vietnam's transition to a
market economy, strengthening sector institutions and assisting
Government to plan and finance infrastructure development. In line
with the CAS, the proposed project will modernize contracting methods
using national competitive bidding procedures, strengthen road sector
institutions in contract administration, management and supervision
and introduce modern economic evaluation methods for planning and
programming road maintenance and construction investments.
14. The ability of Vietnam's economy to respond efficiently to market
incentives depends to a large degree on well-functioning
infrastructure, such as the power and transport systems. Thus, the
public investment program in transport focuses on the rehabilitation
- 4 -



and maintenance of the existing national highway system which has been
identified by the Government as one of the country's most urgent
needs. In support of this objective IDA, ADB, Japan and other
bilateral donors are collaborating to rehabilitate the entire Highway
No. 1 from China in the north to The Gulf of Thailand in the south, as
well as other priority trunk roads. IDA is particularly well suited to
assist the Government in coordinating broad donor support in this
regard and the proposed project will be part of this joint effort.
Project Sustainability
15. Effective maintenance is key to the sustainability of benefits
from the civil works, the major project component. Therefore, the
project would continue the assistance and training to improve the
maintenance management organizations (VRA, RRMUs) and their staff as
well as provide materials and equipment to improve operations to the
extent possible (while taking account of absorptive capacities). The
civil works component has robust economic rates of return and would
therefore be economically sustainable. Sustainability of the expected
benefits is further strengthened by, improved axle load regulations
and control, accordance of high priority to and increased funding for
routine and periodic maintenance, and strengthened training and
development of highway sector manpower expected to be achieved under
the project. There is also a high degree of project ownership with the
client and unified support from major donors active in the sector.
Environmental Aspects
16. The environmental impact of the civil works will be minimal
because the rehabilitation will be carried out on the existing
alignment. The engineering design and construction methods include
appropriate mitigating measures, such as, designing slopes of cuts and
fills to minimize potential for failure and erosion, provision of
additional culverts to improve drainage of surface runoff, and so on.
For the most part, the project will benefit the environment. Widening
the roadway and improving the surface will reduce air and noise
pollution and improve traffic safety. Vietnam has also taken steps to
develop the framework and institutions for environmental protection. A
detailed environmental impact assessment (EIA) has been prepared for
the project and any potential environmental consequences will be taken
into consideration during implementation of the project.
17. Due to road widening, where required, and the clearing of
encroachments within the long established right-of-way, about 2,300
households (11,000 persons) are expected to be affected due to
reorganization or relocation of structures, 1,500 households (6,700
persons) due to acquisition of residential land and about 4,500
households (20,000 persons) due to acquisition of agricultural land.
In total, about 8,300 households (37,700 persons) would be affected by
the project. A Resettlement Action Plan prepared by MOT with the
assistance of consultants during the feasibility and engineering
design phase of the project includes resettlement and rehabilitation
of already affected persons due to clearance activities for road
safety carried out by government in the project area under Decree
36/CP (effective August 1, 1995). The RAP, approved by IDA and the
- 5 -



Government will be implemented by PMUl with the involvement of the
affected people and the peoples' committees at the provincial,
district and commune levels. Adequate mechanisms have been provided
for the redress of grievances and for external and internal monitoring
and supervision. The lessons learned under the first highway project
have been taken into account in the design of the RAP for the second
highway project.
Program Objective Categories
18. The primary program objective category is environmentally
sustainable development. Secondary program objectives are economic
management and private sector development.
Poverty Category
19. The project does not include a specific program of targeted
interventions to reduce poverty. However, it has indirect impact on
poverty alleviation through the reduction of transport costs, improved
access and mobility, and through the creation of additional jobs for
semi-skilled and unskilled labor on construction contracts during
implementation. The road section to be improved under the project
passes through one of the poorest regions in central and northern
Vietnam.
Project Benefits
20. The primary benefits derived from the road rehabilitation will be
user cost savings resulting from reduced vehicle operating costs and
travel time. The benefits should translate into accelerated industrial
and agricultural growth based on improved transport facilities. Lower
costs would also contribute to better integration of Vietnam's economy
and improve the spatial distribution of economic activities.
Additional benefits would accrue from savings on road maintenance
costs; improvements in traffic safety; institutional strengthening and
improved sustainability of infrastructure. The economic rate of
return for the major road works component on Highway No. 1 is about
40% while that for the pilot periodic maintenance component is 70%.
The combined net present value at 10% discount rate is US$356 million
on 96% (or US$199 million) of total project cost (excluding price
contingencies).
Risks
21. The main project risks are: (a) inadequate experience in using
IDA procedures such as those for procurement, disbursements and
audits, which could delay project implementation; (b) inadequate
counterpart funds; and (c) changes in resettlement policies and
practice. As a first step to minimize these risks, IDA will continue
to conduct workshops and special training in IDA procedures in
Vietnam. Also, MOT has created and staffed PMU1 to be responsible for
implementing the project, including accounting and reporting and
monitoring of progress. Technical assistance has been provided to PMU1
to strengthen its main functions and train local staff. Uncertainty
about future availability of counterpart funds is somewhat reduced by
- 6 -



focusing on the highest priority transport investment program and by
the detailed annual reviews of the sector expenditure program to be
undertaken jointly by IDA, Government and other donors active in the
sector. With regard to resettlement, recent experience has shown that
the rapidly changing legislative and regulatory environment in Vietnam
can be a source of potential conflicts with agreed project specific
resettlement policies. IDA is assisting the Government (under a
separate IDF funded project) to develop and put into practice a
comprehensive national resettlement policy which would clear up the
nationwide rules and regulations. Meanwhile, experience in dealing
with resettlement issues and an extensive dialogue with Government
arising under the on-going project, will result in a mutually
acceptable and satisfactory resettlement action plan which is likely
to reduce implementation problems.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 13, 1996.
- 7 -



