Doar
The Wh
FOR OmC
Repo No. 9892
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEYENT
(CREDIT 1559-GUI)
SEPTEMBER 13, 1991
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Guinean Franc (GF)
(Average - GF per US$)
1985     1986       1987     1988       1989      1990
24.3     345.0      428.0    475.0      591.6     661.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNP         National Productivity Center (Centre National de Productivit6)
CNMP        National Public Procurement Commission (Commission Nationale
des Marches Publics)
CNPG        National   Center  for  Management   (Centre  National   de
Perfectionnement a la Gestion)
DDE         External Debt Division (Division de la Dette Ext6rieure)
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministere de l'Economie et
des Finances)
MIS         Management Information System
MPCI        Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (Ministere
du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale)
MPRN        Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources (Minist&re du Plan
et des Ressources Naturelles)
PIP         Public Investment Program
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
TA          Technical Assistance
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR O0FCIAL USA ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofte CA Dvectnvr.lewaI
Opwatons IV#W1gu"a
September 13, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on The Republic of Guinea - Technical
Assistance Proiect for Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on The Republic of Guinea - Technical Assistance Project for
Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI)."  prepared by the Country Operations
Division of the Central and Occidental Africa Department of the Africa Region,
with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(Credit 1559-GUI}
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     i
Evaluation Si-mmary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.     PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
Background       .1...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Descriptior.    . . . . . . . . . .                 3
Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
Project Implementation         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
Project Results    ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Project Sustainability         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             8
Bank Performance        ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
Borrower Performance         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
Consultants Services         ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
Project Documentation and Data           . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Attachment I:  Table of Project Results    . . . . . . . .    11
II.    PART II:  PROJECT REV,EW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Summary Completion Report on PAGEN I            . . . . . . . . .    15
III. PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Table 2 - Project Timetable    . . I . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Table 3 - Loan Disbursements           . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Table 4 - Project Financing Costs    . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Table 5 - Staff Inputs         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(Credit 1559-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Management in Guinea for which Credit 1559-
GUI in the amount of US$9.5 million equivalent was approved on March 21,
1985. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990. one year behind schedule. It
was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was made on January 30, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of the
Central and Occidental Africa Department of the Africa Region (AFlCO). The
Guinean authorities have submitted their own assessment of the Project
which is attached as Part II of this Report.
The PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in
Washington. It is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the rx.nk and the
Borrower, the Project Implementation Monitoring system (PIT,), interviews
"ith Bank staff involved in the project, discussions with representative of
the Borrower and technical assistants in the field.



LIA.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(Credit 1559-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.        The project attempted to meet two major objectives: (i) to
pro%ide the Guinean Government and the donors with the inputs -- data base,
economic analyses, and operational procedures -- necessary for the design
and implementation of the reform program; and (ii) to ensure in the process
the institutional strengthening of the key agencies involved through a
complete overhaul of their organization and their functions, as well as
through formal and on-the-job training of their staff.
Implementation Experience and Prolect Results
2.        Project implementation commenced in an environment characterized
by extremely difficult physical conditions, and a weak and disorgenised
administrative apparatus. Opting for a consulting-firm approach to TA
recruitment and management facilitated project implementation tremendously.
All the issues associated with recruiting or replacing experts, helping
them solve logistical problems, and on-the-spot coordination were handled
by the consulting firm. Project organization proved insufficient. Project
implementation suffered from a mix of incompetence in the area of
accounting and mismanagement, where the former facilitated the latter.
3.        Performance in meeting the two main project objectives varied.
With regard to the first objective, i.e., providing Government and the
donors with the inputs necessary for the design and implementation of the
economic reform program, the record was as follows. While provision of the
key inputs for the design of the economic reform program, such as data
bases and economic analyses, did not run into any major implementation
problem, the introduction of the tools necessary to program implementation
was much more problematic. The management tools (e.g.,public investment
program, budget, debt data base) and the operational procedures
(e.g.,procurement code; new customs regulations and enforcement procedures;
the legal texts creating the institutional framework for coordinating and
implementing the divestiture/liquidation of public enterprises) were
produced. Internalization, however, remained low due to the inadequate
skill base in the administration, and implementation remained the hostage
of vested interests within as well as outside the Government.
4.        The objective of institutional strengthening encountered
numerous obstacles many of them related to the slow pace of the still
ongoing civil service reform. Lack of competent counterparts, high staff
turnover, an incentive framework that does not favor learning and
performance, lark of management and monitoring of the TA on-the-job
training duty, im;eded meaningful progress in improving economic management
capabilities ana rsore generally in improving the quality of the civil
service.
5.        The formal training component was the major success of the
project. In order to adapt it better to the specific needs of the
administration, the training component underwent a drastic change in design



iv
at the implementation stage. While the first version entailed a wide array
of short specialized courses, the subsequent one involved a longer-term
curriculum. The two-year part-time courses consisted of a first year of
upgrading the skills level in the basic areas of economlc management, and a
second year of specialization. The component as redesigned involved
specific mechani6ns to ensure on-the-job training and skills transfer from
the expatriate TA to the national counterparts. All first-year courses are
now taught by nat..nals, the quality of training is good, and attendance at
the national training center (WtJPG) has increased far beyond the population
targeted by the project.
Project Sustainability
6.        Despite improvements in some specific areas such as investment
analysis, budget, and procurement, the Guinean administration remains
highly dependent on technical assistance. The project, however,
established an extremely effective training structure which if adequately
used by the ministries in charge of economic management could play a
pivotal role in the process of skill localization and institution
strengthening.
Findings and Lessons learned
7.        In contexts where there is a lack of a rigorous accounting
tradition and education as well as a wide tendency for mismanagement of
public funds, incompetence in the area of accounting will facilitate
mismanagement and make it difficult to detect in time. These issues can be
most effectively addressed at the project design stage. Adequate training
in specific aspects of procurement and related Bank procedures should be
provided to project accountants. Financial and operational audits should be
undertaken during implementation, so that fraudulent practices can be
detected and acted upon in time. Finally in instances where adequate
management of project resources cannot be ensured in line ministries, it
might be preferable to establish independent project management units. Such
a solution was adopted under the follow up project, Second Economic
Management Support Project, credit Nc 1963-Gui.
8.        In countries such as Guinea where the civil service skills base
is weak and ill-adapted to the management of a market economy, technical
assistance is doomed to play a substitution role in an early stage when TA
outputs are urgently needed for the design of the adjustment program. What
is crucial, however, is to set the stage for institutional strengthening
from the outset and take the appropriate actions s..o meet the objective.
The project teaches some useful lessons in that respect.
9.        First, on the supply side, it is important to develop a training
strategy tailored to meet the specific needs of the target population. The
ingredients of such a strategy are formal and on-the-job training. Formal
training has to start with upgrading of basic skills, with specialization
needs being addressed later. Effective on-the-job training requires an
intensive management of the technical assistance to ensure that training
actually takes place and that progress is monitorable and measurable.



v
10.       Second, on the detmand side, it is crucial to ensure tdLot the
conditions on the recipient part, i.e. the administration, do not impede
meetIng the institution strengthening objective. In particular reasonable
staff stability, and an incentive framework that favors learning and
performance should be introduced so that the technical assistants can
fulfill their responsibility for training, and the formal training
structure can be fully utilized by the target population.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(CXedit 1552-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Prolect Identity
Project Name s Technical Assistance Project For Economic
Management
Credit No.   t Cr. 1559-GUI
Credit Amount: SDR 9.7 million (US$9.5 millton equivalent)
RVP Unit      t Africa
Country       a Republic of Guinea
Sector        a Economic management
II. Background
1.        Despite agricultural, mineral, and energy resources which make
it one of the best endowed countries in Africa, Guinea experienced
declining economic performance from Independence in 1958 to the early
1980's.  The private sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network of
state enterprises i; all sectors as the Government increasingly followed a
centrally-planned a)mel of economic management.
2.        By the early 1980's, Government's finance had eroded due to poor
performance of the parastatal sector. The economy's external position
became unsustainable, largely as a result of public investment outside the
mining enclave which failed to generate returns adequate to service the
associated external debt. Mounting debt service obligations and private
capital flight, unmatched by increments in capital inflows, resulted in a
continual rise in the foreign liabilities of the Central Bank and a massive
accumulation of payments arrears.
3.        In the human and institutional areas the situaition was even
worse: repressive policies sapped Gutinea of its intellectuals and its best
entrepreneurs who emigrated in vast numbers; movements of people and goods
were severely constrained; the legal system was in a shambles as arbitrary
authority was substituted for due process; ard ineffectual public
institutions proliferated in order to absorb an inflated, poorly paid end
unskilled civil service plagued by corruption.
4.        In 1985, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabitants lived at the
margin of poverty. Per capita income wai about US$300, among the lowest in
the developing countries, life expectancy was only 44 years, infant
mortality was about 17 percent, 90 percent of the population had no access
to safe water, and 80 percent of the adult population was illiterate.
5.        As early as 1979, the pressure of the economic situation led the
Government to take some limited steps towards improving economic management
and decentralization of the economys excessive monetary growth was slightly
reduced, the need for more explicit performance criteria and greater



2
autonomy of public enterprises was recognized, and the 1979 capital grants
to parastatal required them to settle their futnre transactions in cash.
6.        Though the Governement was not ready yet to embark on a
meaningful reform process and adopt the structural economic reforms needed
to arrest the downvard trend of the Guiaean economy, it was aware that such
a process would require a strengthening of the Gove-nment's capabilities in
management of economic affairs. In 1981, the Government formally requested
IDA financing for a technical assistance project intended to strengthen the
Ministries of Planning and Statistice, State Control, and the Central Bank
of Guinea.
7.        Project identification work began in 1981 after indications were
received that (i) the Government was prepared to accept and use technical
assistance for economic management; and (ii) other donors, and particularly
UNDP, could not provide this assistance. More than three years elapsed
between the first contact between Government and IDA and the project being
approved. Discussions with Government on the scope and processing of the
project during the Sekou Toure era were long and difficult. The Government
was extremely reluctant to move away from its inefficient and highly
centralized planning system.
S.        The change in Government fo3llowing the death of President Sekou
Toure in March 1984 resulted in a radical shift in economic orientation.
The new Government was committed to liberalizing the economy, and therefore
to more far reaching economic and institutional reforms. This dramatic
change resulted in much closer cooperation between Guinea and IDA.
9.        As prepar. tion of the economic reform program to be later
financed undpr a structural adjustment credit (SAC) proceeded, the new
authorities decided that a complete overhaul of the relevant institutions
was necessary. The adjustment program focused on economic liberalization
measures and reform of public administration and public enterprises.
Consultants financed under the PPF advances foa the technical assistance
project examined the relationship between the Ministry of Planning and
Statistics and other agencies and the functioning of the Ministry of
Finance 1/. The IMF r2viewed the operation and structure of the Central
Bank. Following discussions with the Association and the Fund, and in the
context of a major reform of Government organization in December 1984, the
authorities decided to undertake immediately a complete organizational
overkaul of the thre4e key ministries charged with economic management.
10.       The US$ 9.5 million equivalent Technical Assistance Project for
Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI) was approved on March 14, 1985; the
credit agreement was signed on March 21, 1985 and declared effective on
July 8, 19Z5. The project was closed on June 30, 1990.
1/ Two PPF advances totalling US$400,000 financed consultants and training
for project preparation, organizational studies of the ministry of planning
and the ministry of economy and finance, legal advice for implementing the
reorganization. architectural designs and initial start-up activities
(preparation of detailed training program, household survey and audit of
external debt).



3
III. Project Objectives and Description
11.       The principal aim of the project was to improve the quality of
the Government's economic management, through a three-year, first-phase
program of technical assistance and staff training. The project had five
main componentes investment analysis, macroeconomic planning, preparation
of economic data, control of public expenditure and revenues, and training.
In addition, the project comprised important but smaller components on
management of external debt statistics, and the parapublic sector.
12.       The objective of the Investment Analysis Component was to
improve the capacity of the Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources
(MPRN) which became later the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MPCI), and the technical ministrits for preparation, appraisal
and monitoring of the public investment program including analysis of its
capital and recurrent cost implications. The project provided for
expatriate specialists in project preparation and economic and financial
analysis, in order to assist the staff of MPRN in the identification,
preparation and selection of investment prnjects.
13.       Under the Macroeconomic Planning Component, the project was to
finance a resident macroeconomic planner to assist MPRN's General Planning
Division for three years. After a review of past performance and
identification of constraints to development, the division would prepare
the outline for a strategy in the drea of public investment programming and
related policies. This would focus particularly on the overall potential
for developing the rural and agricultural sector. The working group would
prepare the macroeconomic and policy framework for the rolling three-year
investment program", and, as appropriate, would supply macroeconomic input
to the technical ministries preparing sectoral investment programs.
14.       The Economic Data Component was to seek to improve MPRN's
estimates of the national accounts aggregates by making better use of
existing data; undertaking sample surveys to estimate unavailable data; and
formulating guidelines for a longer term statistical program.
15.       The Ministry of Economy and Finance Component sas to introduce
modernized procedures for treasury, budget and customs administration.
Under a twinning arrangement between the Guinean Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF) and the French Tresor, France would provide support for the
work program of MEF by the secondment of resident specialists to the office
of the MEF and to the customs service.
16.       Under the Training Component, a full-time resident expatriate
Training Advisor was to assist the staff of the National Productivity
Center (CNP) to prepare and implement a massive program of staff training
in support of the other project components and closely related to their
work program. Training would be provided by the MPRN's resident experts
and the short-term specialists, as well as visiting training officers
specialized in the topics to be covered -- economic and financial analysis,
management systems, statistics, national accounts, computing and
procurement management.



4
17.       The External Debt Management Component was to transfer the
External Debt Division (DDE) of the Central Bank to the MEP, which would
henceforth be responsible for contracting, monitoring and servicing
external debt. The project would provide for consultancy services to DDE
to perform a complete audit of Guinea's external debt, checking data w;h
major creditors; improve the timeliness, coverage and frequency of the debt
reporting system; strengthen DDE's ability to sssess the repayment capacity
and define appropriate financing terms for development projects and
investments requiring debt guarantees; and help articulate a public sector
borrowing strategy within the country's limited debt capacity.
18.       The Parapublic Reform Component would finance the services of
accounting, investment banking and management consulting experts in the
MEF. The accounting experts were to supervise the liquidation of the
network of government-owned regional stores handling crop marketing, retail
trade, petroleum distribution and books and school supplies. Investment
banking and consulting services would be engaged to manage the divestiture
of selected public enterprises in other sectors. These experts would also
assist the Government in coordinating the rehabilitation of those
enterprises that would remain in its portfolio and in preparing new
regulations and policies granting a larger autonomy to these enterprises.
19.       Additional activities were to help the National Public
Procurement Commission (CNMP) develop procurement procedures for government
purchases, consistent with sound international practice and donor
requirements, and pi nare guidelines for the preparation and negotiation of
international contracts. Funds to be administered by MPRN, were to enable
the Government to engage short-term consultants to help in the preparation
and monitoring of the economic reform program; they would examine the
impact of proposed policy changes on household budgets, rural production,
and consumer and producer prices. Consultants were also to help the
Government prepare a second technical assistance project.
IV. Project Design and Organization
20.       Project Design. From ita inception in 1981, until its approval
in 1985, the size and the scope of the project were the object of
substantial concern and exhaustive discussions within the Bank as well as
between the Bank and the Guinean authorities. The starting situation was
an economy in a shambles, an administrative apparatus operating according
to a centrally-planned model of economic management. The administration
was plagued by corruption and was lacking the most basic skills in all
areas including the most crucial functions of economic management. In
short, the country was bereft of the most essential tools for implementing
its ambitious economic reform program.
21.       In order tO avoid the risks associated with overly ambitious and
complex projects, the TA program wisely focused on assisting the key
economic management agencies. The project was designed to meet two major
objectives: (i) to provide the Guinean Governme-t and the donors with the
inputs -- data base, economic analyses, and operational procedures --
necessary for the design and implementation of the refonm program; and (ii)
to ensure in the process the institutional strengthening of the key
agencies involved through a complete overhaul of their organization and



5
their functions, as well as formal and on-the-job training of their staff.
22.       Proiect OrganLzation. The Directors of the six units being
assisted, MPRN's Planning and Statistics Directorates, CNP, and the MEF's
Treasury, Customs, and External Debt divlsions would have professional
responsibillty for preparing and carrying out their work programs. A full-
time national administrator, located in the MPNR, assisted by a full time
Guinean accountant, would handle day-to-day project administration.
V. Pro1ect Implementation
23.       Management of Technical Assistance. Project implementation
started in 1985 in an environment which was neither physically nor
administratively prepared to receive the amount of technical assistance
that the project involved. On the logistics side, acute housing shortages,
frequent water and power fallures, hazardous health conditions and poor
quality of health services rendered the expatrlate experts' initial
installation and subsequent daily life a strenuous experience. On the
professional side, the extreme disorganization and lack of resources of the
administration made working conditions very difficult. The latter were
aggravated by material problems such as frequent power failures, old and
crowded office buildings lacking the most basic equipment, and the poor
state of telecommunications.
2:        By opting for a consulting firm approach to TA recruitment and
management, the project shifted the burden of solving these issues onto the
firm. This arrangement did indeed facllitate and speed up logistical
problem solving (eg., searching for housing, solving emergency health
problems, replacing equipment parts). Most importantly, if consultants had
been recruited individually, technical coordination of the TA would have
been difficult. Given the difficulties of coordinating from Bank
headquarters, and the absence of Guinean capacity in this regard, the
provision of a resident coordinator by the foreign consultimg firm proved
crucial. It adequately split the responsibility of TA management between
the Guinean authorities, the Bank and the resident chief of the TA mission
responsible for the technical coordination.
25.       Owing to the unavoidable delays associated with upgrading the
Mlnistry of Planning's building and equipping it, the expatriate staff set
up their offices in a government-owned nearby annex. However, this
situatlon together with the fact that the offices were equipped with an
independent generator, computers, xerox machines etc., created tensions
between the Guineans and the expatriates. Despite the presence of direct
national counterparts at its side, the technical assistance was perceived
as being privileged and as operating in seclusion. This enclave was also
often expected to compensate for logistical and material deficiencies in
MPCI and elsewhere.
26.       Training. The training component underwent a drastic design
change during implementation. The concept of a program of massive training
through short-term specialized courses, in support of the other project
components and linked directly to the work program, proved to be largely
unsuitable for the actual skill base in the Guinean administration.



6
27.       The low level of skills, and the fact that existing skills were
for the most part ill-adapted to the new orientation _f the economy, made
it necessary to redesign the component. The new two-year curriculum of
part-time courses would (i) during the first year provide all trainees with
a basic education in economics, statistics, and public administration; and
(ii) during the second year allow them to specialize in one of the two
areas of specialization offered, i.e., public management and analysis of
investment projects. The number of trainees per year was consequently
scaled down from a projected 400 per year in the initial version of the
training component to an actual 50 per year in the subsequent one.
28.       Skills Transfer. The project's expectations in terms of
institution building underestimated the numerous obstacles to skills
transfer in the Guinean environment. First, the TA project took place in
the context of a civil service reform and a complete overhaul of the
institutions in charge of economic management. The roles of the different
agencies were being redefined and individuals were being shifted around.
The tasks to be performed by individuals at the different levels of the
hierarchy were not defined, a problem which often made on-the-job training
impossible. Those counterparts that were designated by the administration
prior to the arrival of the experts were often not selected on the basis of
the level and adequacy of their skills, their competence or absorptive
capacity. Many experts were not assigned counterparts when they arrived,
and the project did not provide for any counterpart selection process
involving a consultation between the administration and the experts.
29.       Secondly, the incentives framework in the administration did not
favor skills transfer. Salaries were so low (about $45 a month on average
in 1987) that civil servants had to spend most of their time on additional
income-generatIng activities.  Career and salary structures were not linked
to learning and performance, deterring the emergence of a demand from the
counterparts for formal or informal training. The incentives framework for
the technical advisors was also highly biased against on-the-job training.
The experts were under tremendous pressure to produce the inputs needed for
the structural adjustment program. In addition, they were judged on the
quality of these inputs and their ability to produce them in a timely
fashion rather than on the effort devoted to training counterparts.
30.       Thirdly, the emphasis of the project was on providing an
appropriate structure for upgrading the overall skills base through the
CNPG curriculum and short seminars on specific techniques organized in the
relevant agencies. This aspect proved relatively successful. The project
was much less effective, however, in defining the modalities of on-the-job
training and consequent skills transfer, in such a way that progress on
that front could take place, and that such progress could be adequately
monitored and supervised 2/.
31.       In the training component, however, substantial skills transfer
was realized. During the first year, all the courses were given by
expatriate specialists, and the future national trainers attended the
/See PAGEN IIs Pour Une Strategie de Formation sur le Tas" for a fuller
discussion of this issue, available from AFlCO Guinea Desk.



7
classes and took the exams with the students. Those trainers who passed
the first year exam were sent abroad for further training in their specific
area of specialization. The following year, they gave the first year
classes together with the expatriate experts. Each expert was required to
provide the national counterparts with all the material needed for
preparing and giving the class as well as testing the students and marking
the exams, so that the national counterparts could provide the training all
by themselves by the next year. The first year of the CNPG curriculum is
now taught by nationals.
32.       Project organization proved insufficient. The project
administrator who had been involved in the project since its inception and
was the best available candidate for managing it, was overwhelmed with
other important functions -- Directeur National du Plan, SecrEtaire General
du Comit4 de Coordination Economique et Financire -- and had little time
for project management. As a result project accounts were kept haphazardly,
and relied on consultants billing and somewhat incomplete procurement
records. In addition, the project administrator had authority over
components within other ministries for which his peers were responsible.
This situation brought him into frequent conflict with other national
directors.
VI. Project Results
33.       Project results were mixed.  On the whole, the project was far
more effective in reaching its technical objectives than its institutional
ones. The technical assistance delivered the major inputs, critical for
the design and implementation of the reform program. Internalization of
analytical tools and new operational procedures, however, remained low due
to a combination of two factorst the low skill base in the Guinean
administration and the resistance to change from vested interests who
benefit from existing ways of operating. In particular, the institutional
strengthening and skills transfer objectives became the hostage of the
difficulties encountered in the implementation of the civil service reform.
34.       As a result of the training component, the CNPG now provides a
solid training in economic statistics and public finance well-suited to
domestic needs. The school trains between 50 and 60 new trainees each
year. While the training component was initially targeting the staff of
the project's ministries, the school attendance actually involves a few
staff from those ministries and many from technical ministries, national
enterprises, and the University of Conakry.
35.       Guinea's first Public Investment Program was prepared for 1986.
Subsequently, the Government adopted its first three year rolling public
investment program for the period 1987-89 which was presented to the first
Consultative Group for Guinea in March 1987. Also for the first time an
attempt was made to situate this program within a macroeconomic framework
and the concept of incorporating recurrent cost implications into project
appraisal was introduced. The resulting macro forecasts, however, are not
used as a consistency framework for the PIP. This situation persists up to
the present time.



8
36.       Investment programming and control procedures remain inadequate
as sufficient capacity could not be developed for the formal monitoring of
disbursements or physical progress. Project preparation and implementation
continue to be of insufficient quality, and indigenous capacity for
economic analysis remains extremely weak.
37.       Implementation of the PIP also suffered from a lack of
procurement procedures. The Procurement Code was prepared but its
promulgation became hostage to disagreements between the MCPI and the MEF,
which competed for a larger control of the investment program, as well as
to vested interests within the Government which benefitted from the lack of
transparency of existing procurement procedures. The Procurement Code was
finally promulgated in December 1988 under Bank pressure as a condition of
effectiveness for SAL II. The first texts governing its application were
delayed until November 1989, and its implementation is still very
rudimentary.
38.       An external debt division was created in the MEF, but never
became fully operational due to institutional conflicts with the Central
Bank and staffing weaknesses. All the material necessary for Paris and
London Club rescheduling negotiations was produced by the technical
assistant. A formal debt data base was established and computerized, but
improvements in debt management were only gradual, and significant arrears
were accumulated in 1987 and 1988. Very little effort was made to develop
national skills in debt management.
39.       To sum up, the project succeeded in producing specific data and
economic analyses crucial for the design of the reform program. It also
succeeded in introducing important economic management tools such as the
PIP, the debt data base and the budget. The introduction of management
tools was not enough, however, to alter decision making and policy
formulation processes: a three-year PIP was introduced but project choice
did not improve much; the macro forecasts are not used as a constraint on
the level of the PIP; the debt data base does not have much impact on debt
contracting and repayment policies.
VII. Project Sustainability
40.       The Guinean administration remains extremely dependent on
expatriate technical assistance, and will remain so in the medium term.
The project was very successful in establishing a training structure which
if adequately combined with on-the-job training could speed up tremendously
the process of skills localization. In order, however, for this
localization to take place, major changes falling outside of the mandate of
this project and within the realm of the civil service reform would need to
be initiated.
41.       First, career and salary structures should more effectively link
promotion and pay increases to learning and performance in order to create
a demand for self-improvement within the civil service. Secondly, salaries
should be increased to a level where civil servants do not need additional
activities to cover their most basic living expenses. Thirdly, such salary
increases should be accompanied by the introduction of disciplinary
mechanisms to deter all kinds of deviant behavior such as absenteeism,



9
corruption and so on. At present there are few sanctions against such
behavior, and this constitutes a major obstacle to improvements in the
quality of the civil service.
VIII. Bank Performance
42.       The three years of preparation of the project were characterized
by extensive analysis and thorough diagnosis of the Guinean administration,
and intensive d'scussion within the Bank and between the Bank and the
Government on pruject design. After the project became effective, the
Bank's attitude was characterized by great flexibility allowing, for
example, for major changes in the training component to better adapt it to
existing conditions.
43.       The project itself was supervised formally only 6 times during
its 5 year life span (1985-1990), which was clearly not enough given the
novel nature of the operation, the close supervision technical assistance
projects require, and the difficult communication links between Washington
and Guinea. In reality, because the TA project was providing the inputs to
the SAC, supervision was more frequent than it would appear, since all SAC
supervision missions had to monitor progress on the TA front. As a result,
however, supervision missions focused often on actual TA outputs to the
detriment of qualitative aspects such as the necessary conditions for
institutional sttengthening and skills transfer.
IX. Borrower Performance
44.       The Borrower did not provide the technical assistance with
adequate conditions to fulfill its institutional strengthening mission. In
many cases there were no counterparts designated to work with the
expatriate experts. There were no selection processes established that the
experts could use to select counterparts. The level of competence of the
counterparts designated by the administration varied a lot, raising
questions on the nature of the criteria on which their selection was based.
45.       The Borrower's commitment to some of the institutional reforms,
was at the least, questionable. Vested interests within the Government
succeeded in delaying substantially the adoption and the application of the
Procurement Code. Implementation of the parapublic sector reform suffered
from the failure of the Government to provide the needed financial
logistical and institutional support. Finally, project management was
poor. Budget management and accounting systems were highly inadequate and
as a result the Bank has not been able to ascertain whether project
resources were properly used. The audit of the first phase of the project
was rejected by IDA which required a further financial audit covering the
whole project.
46.       The conclusions of this latter audit were (i) lack of standard
accounting procedures; (ii) insufficient documentation on the movements of
funds on the special accounts; (iii) and a number of weaknesses in the
internal control system. The internal control system suffered from a lack
of adequate filing system for the accounting documentation. several
anomalies in the making of withdrawal requests, and haphazard registration
of requests for direct payments. As a result of these weaknesses the



10
auditors could not certify that the use of the project's funds were in line
with the dispositions of the credit agreement.
47.       These conclusions suggest that project implementation suffered
from a mix of incompetence and mismanagement, where the former could make
it easier to proceed with the latter. In the context of Guinea where
rigorous accounting education and tradition were lacking, these conclusions
are not surprising. They suggest however that in such a context, adequate
management of projects resources requires as a preliminary condition
additional training of project accountants in specific aspects of
procurement and related Bank procedures. As regards potential
mismanagement, financial and operational audits during implementation would
allow errors to be detected and acted on in time.
X. Consultants Services
48.       Although consultant performance varied across individuals, on
the whole consultants did a reasonably good job given the difficult
conditions in which they had to operate. They provided the Government and
the donors with the inputs urgently needed for the economic reforms. It is
mainly in terms of on-the job-training and skills transfer that performance
was very uneven ranging from outstanding in the training component to good
in the public investment and procurement components to non-existent in debt
management and in statistics.
XI. Project Documentation and Data
49.       Most of the information necessary for the preparation of the PCR
was obtained from interviews of Bank staff, Guinean counterparts, and
expatriate experts who worked on the project. Project files, in particular
supervision and back-to-office reports, are very uneven in terms of factual
data, analysis of issues involved in project implementation, and project
results. Much of the data required for the statistical annexes were not
available from MIS and project files.



11
Attachment I
Project R-auts
Investment Analysis
Componont/subcomponents                 Status                                  Coments
Preparation of a throe-year              complOtWd
rolling public investment
program
Development of s*ctoral            partially completed      Soctoril strategies and programs should be
strategios and investment                                   developed by s*ctoral ministrl.s, and reviewed by
programs and review of thse                                  the Ministry of Planning   For those sectors
strategles and programs                                      which developed strategies, Implementation was
patchy.  Project cholce remained donor-driven in
that projects Inconsistent with declared strategy
: still went ahoad if they wvr, on a donor agenda.
Development and introduction       completed but not         Internalization of such tools is a function of
within the administration of        internalized             improvementa in the *xill base of the
an operational manual for the  :                            administration and requires intensiv, training
identification, preparation                                 a and supervision over an *etxnded period of time
and selection of invostment
projects
Prefeasability studioc of
investment projects                   not completed
Macro-economic Planning
Component/subcomponents.                Status                                 Comments
Diagnostic study of the            partially completed      A Cuinean vorsion of RMSM model, UPECUI, was
Borrower's economy and          .                            built and used.  The onvelope for the public
preparation and                                              investment program (PIP) implied by the macro
implementation of a global                                  forecasts generatod by the model does not havo
strategy for public                                         much impact on the actual level of tho PIP.
investment, notably In the                                  Sectoral strategies for public invostment were
rural sector                                                dosigned for som  sectors.
Study of the organi2ation and            completed           UPCI and MEF were reorganized
operation of tho Borrower's
institutions responsible for
macro-economic planning
Preparation of macro-economic            completed
data for the annual updating
of the throe-year rolling
invostment program
Preparation of macro-economic      partially completed       unreliable data base
dta for sectoral invostment
programs
Preparation of a long-term             not completed         It will only be after the c;vil service reform Is
institutional development and                               completed that such a strategy could be pr pered
training program for the                                     a and implemented
management of the Borrower's
*conomy



12
Economic Data
Component/subcomponentm                Status                                  Coments
Preparation of a medium-term,      partially completed      Shoddy and unrellable data
annually-updated statistical
program for the Borrower
Preparation of notional            partially completed      National accounts gueestlt.ee  were prepared,
accounts estimate, on tho                                   but the National statistics division was and
basls of existing statistical                               still Is unable to properlv colFect, proc--e, and
data and of *urveys, such as                                provido reliable data.  The initIal constrtInt on
price surveys and a farm                                    the availability of reosonably trained staff has
budget survey, and                                          not been overcoe and the weakness of the
preparation of a macro                                   : division has an impact on both the macro-economic
economic master plan for                                    planning and the economic data components
planning and policy purposoe
Updating of notional                  not completed
accounting plans and
Introduction of new
analytical techniques
Study of the Borrower's            partially comploted
computer training and
equipment requiremnts over
the medium-term and
preparation of a Computer
Development Moster Plan
Budgeting and Customs
Component/subcomponents      :         Status                                  Conments
Analysis of tho Borrower's              completed
current budget procedures and
internal paymente procedures,
and the function of various
ministries and their
departments with respect
thereto
Updating of the Borrower's         partially completed      Major improvements in budgeting and financial
budgeting and financial                                     control were made, monthly statue report on
control procedures and          :                           budget implomentation was produced; the process
introduction of these           :                           cont;nues under follow up pro ect
procedures throughout the
Borrower's administration
Improvement of tax revenue           little progress        Lack of progress Is due to administrative
collection and acceleratIon    :                            wesknesses and pervasive corruption
of tax revenue transfers
within the Borrower's
administration
Analysis of the Borrower's            not completed
current customs proceduros
and customs code
Preparation of new customs         partially completed       Ongoing under follow up project
regulations and enforcement
procedures



13
External Debt Management
Component/subcomponente                 Status                                  Co mme nts
Complet, audit of the                    completed
Borrower's external debt
Impl_emntation of a quarterly          not completed         I. being done under follow up project
external debt reporting system :
Study of external debt                 not completed
management institutions abroad
Strength-ning of DOE's                 not completed
ability to define appropriate
financing terme fo;
development projecto and
Investments requiring the
Borrower's repayment
guarantee, to aseese
oepayment capacity and
articulate a public sector
borrowing strategy
Training
Component/subcomponents                 Status                                 Co ments
Provision of on-the-job             seo  comment.
training and se"inars to
MPRN, MEF, CUE staff and
officials from technical
ministries responsible for
project preparation and
analysis in economic and
financial analysis,
man*gement systems,
statistics, maintaining of
national accounts, computing
and procurem-nt management
3Du  to the low skill bas  -in the Guinean
Provision of clerical                                        administration the whole training component had
training to MPRN, MEF, CME,                               : to be redesigned.  The now version Involved a
and SCRO support staff          :                            two-year program of part-time courses with a
: first year of basic training in economic
j statistics and public management, and a second
: year of specialized training. The quality  of
: CNPO's training is good and the attendance has
:  Increased far beyond the population targeted by
: the project.
Preparation and                          compl-ted        ; CNPG does not provide clerical training.
implementation of a training
and professional development
program for accountants and
auditors in the public sector
and state onterprises
Renovation of CNP's training             completed
and office facilities,
Including provision of
furniture and equipment
On the job and external                  completed
training of CNP's training
staff



14
Procurement; Lagtlsation
Coeponent/subcomponents                 Status                                  Comments
Preparation of legislation               ccoploted
*nd agreemnts relating to
financial matters
Proparation and                     partially completed     Procedur-s were prepared; the approval of the
imples  ntation of new public                               procurement codo woo substantially delayed; it
procurement procedures                                      was finally approvod as a result of being a
: condition of effectiveness for SAL I.
Implementation was unevon
Preparation of a follow up               completed
project in support of
economic management
Parepublic Sector Reform
Component/subcompon-nts                 Status                                  Coments
Preparation and                     partially completed     Most *nterprises were liquidatod ornprivatizod,
implementation of a program                                 but a number of them remained In the Govornment
for divestiture, closure and                              : portfolio for no economically justifiable
liquidation of selected d                                   reason. The privatization deals were
public enterpriseo                                          characterized by lack of transparency; special
concessions were granted on a case by crso basis
to several privatized companies undermining the
intended efficiency gains of the privatization
program and its financial aims
Preperation of a new                   not completed
institutional, policy and
rogulatory framework for
public enterprises
Proparation of a medium-term           not completed
program for rehabilitation of
solected public entorprieas
Civil Service Reform
Component/subcompononts                 Status                                  Coaments
Implementation of a civil                comploted
service census
Evaluation and selection of              completed          Though the actions to be undertaken under the
civil servant. at MEF, mcPr    :                             project were actually completed, the civil
and other solected ministries                             : service reform which Is still going on has proved
:  long complex and difficult, severely hampering
Acquisition of equipment and             completed        : progress In achioving the institutional
supplies for the civil           :                          strengthening objectives
service files



PART II
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (MPCI)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
1985 - 1988
SUMMARY COMPLETION REPORT ON PAGEN I



15
SUMMARY COMPLETION REPORT ON PAGEN I
The first phase of the Economic Management Support Project to the
Government of Guinea, built around six main program components, achieved the
objectives set out in 1985.
The Ministries of Planning and Finance were restructured to meet
the needs of new policy approaches; the totally inadequate statistical service
was improved; previously lacking analytical and simulation tools were devised
and applied; a comprehensive economic and financial reform program (PREF),
including three-year rolling public investment programming (PIP), replaced the
Interim National Recovery Program (PIRN); procurement procedures were revised;
information on Guinea's external debt was improved; and, finally, a vast
program of training, both in service and outside Guinea, was undertaken to
improve the quality of the civil service.
These results, presented in detail below and achieved under the
management of the Director General of Planning, were due to fruitful
collaboration between expatriate experts and national counterparts working as
a team, although the desired skills transfer was not totally achieved during
this first phase.
I.         MACROECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FORECASTING
The prerequisite for this economic analysis was an initial survey
of GuLnea's economy.
The resulting diagnostic study, based on the macroeconomic and
macrofinancial situation and eight sector studies, yielded -- via an analysis
of constraints and potential -- the initial elements of a medium-term strategy
consonant with the overall development directives established by the
Government.
Guinea's short, medium and long-term policies were then formulated
in the report by the Government to the first Consultative Group meeting (March
1987), prepared by the Directorate General of Planning.
Macroeconomic analysis and forecasting tools (MPEGUI) were also
refined by adapting the World Bank's PMSM model to Guinea's situation. The
MPEGUI model was constructed on Lotus 1-2-3 by using as basic data the
national accounts for 1986, whose reliability remained to be confirmed.
Significant macroeconomic analysis was carried out from autumn
1987 onwards with a view to producing an appropriate PIP for 1988-90 in terms
of the major equilibria. This analysis was regularly reviewed in light of the
work done on the national accounts since 1987, which has improved their
accuracy.
As part of the introduction of a permanent monitoring system for
Guinea's economy, a note on the international context, covering various
features of the economic, monitory and financial environment outside Guinea,



16
has been published monthly since March 1988. Since the first quarter of 1989,
this has been complemented by a quarterly performance chart of Guinea's
economy.
At the end of the work on this first component, a short 'Statement
of Options" was prepared summarizing all the studies carried out and documents
published during the three years of PAGEN I.
II.         PROGRAMMING OF INVESTMENTS
This second component of PAGEN I consisted essentially of
improving investment programming and introducing effective procedures for
project appraisal and execution. The programming work started at the end of
1985 with the preparation of the 1986 investment budget.
The first exercise carried out by the Directorate General of
Planning, involving not merely planning but public investment in particular,
was to prepare a comprehensive listing of all ongoing and new projects, and
review the nature and reliability of the information available on each
project.  Basic data were compiled in the form of a projects file, and
projects were classified according to a large number of criteria; the
introduction of sector and subsector nomenclature and the new availability of
project data enabled an initial assessment of program execution to be made.
During the next fiscal year, the rolling three-year programming procedure for
the 1987-89 PIP was introduced. Ii-. addition, this phase saw significant
qualitative progress as regards:
-     a comprehensive inventory of projects
-     the volume of information available on each project
-     the institutionalization of sector meetings w'ith the technical
departments and the preparation by the latter of sector
strategies, and
-     the incorporation of macroeconomic constraints.
The 1987-89 investment program was an integral part of the
Government's report to the Consultative Group meeting held in Paris in March
1987 and benefitted from a wide consensus among Guinea's principal donors.
The third three-year planning exercise, for 1988-90, saw a further
refinement of planning procedures through the use of more rigorous criteria
(results of previous implementation, accuracy of expenditures, existence of
external financing, scale of recurrent charges).
Finally, the preparation of the 1989-91 investment program began
in June 1988 with:



17
-     recognition of the impact of macroeconomic constraints on the
investment budget (need to balance the budget, external
indebtedness considerations)
t   -  the definition, prior to the programming exercise, of overall
envelopes and sector envelopes
-     the observance of a budget timetable enabling the finance law to
be adopted with effect from January 1, 1989, and
-     the incorporation of additional programming criteria.
Given the very significant increase in information to be
processed, it became necessary to go beyotid a mere computerized project file
and produce an automated project programming system. Specific software was
therefore prepared and introduced along with the necessary safeguards for
system access, and data modification and conservation.
The review of project execution procedures began in 1986 and
continued until the beginning of 1988. It involved:
-     analyzing existing procedures for expenditure financed from
external and domestic resources (role of the technical
departments, Ministry of Planning, and Ministry of Economy and
Finance in credit allocation and the advances system), and
resulting inefficiencies;
-     organizing review groups with the Ministry of Economy and Finance;
-     preparing a number of documents proposing the rationalization of
these procedures;
-     defining and introducing internal MPCI procedures (Departments,
Sectoral Divisions and Financing Divisio-ni
-     updating records of commitments and payments from domestic and
external financing sources.
On the basis of the implementation procedures proposed, a
permanent project monitoring system was set up during 1987 and introduced at
the start of 1988, involving:
-     the collection of the data required for an accurate starting
situation, comprising:
*     a listing of financing agreements
*     a listing of contracts
0     the financial execution status of contracts as at January 1,
1988



18
-     the preparation of dossiers on the status of each project
-     a start on computerization of disbursement authorizations, as
regards domestic financing, and payment orders, as rigards
external financing.
For project appraisal, a public investment appraisal manual was
prepared defining procedures covering the identification, preparation,
appraisal and selection of investment projects.
This manual includes:
-     general project appraisal procedures
-     the contents of a project appraisal study
-     standard cost specifications, and
_     appraisal by the Ministry of Planning.
The manual was prepared in close association with sector divisions
and was widely disseminated within the Ministry of Planning.  It was also used
extensively in the training seminars organized in the second half of 1987 for
officials in the new Directorate General of Public Investments (DGIP) and in
the technical ministries.
As part of the practical utilization of this manual a number of
pilot appraisals were made, for testing and training purposes, of projects
selected in light of their representativenes~s and importance. These
appraisals provided insight into the availability of basic data, the practical
possibilities of adopting the procedures laid down in the manual, and problems
regarding the skills level of staff in the General Directorate of Planning.
III.        UPGRADING OF THE STATISTICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM
Formerly, statistics were provided exclusively by government
departments and were sometimes considerably at variance with observable
reality.
The private sector was in effect ignored and was in any event very
undeveloped. It was also often suffocated, as in agriculture (a priority
sector), by an omnipresent and inefficient bureaucracy, inappropriate taxation
and a system of remuneration for producers using official prices lacking any
proper economic basis. Domestic output was therefore smuggled out of the
country on a large scale, making it very difficult to determine the real
situation as opposed to the official version. In the area of national
accounts, despite some praiseworthy efforts, aggregates were merely
calculations that for the most part were based on extrapolating projections
for the previous year.



19
The profound changes occurring in Guinea's economic life required
better coordination of the various forms of technical assistance received by
the Ministry of Planning in the area of statistics (FAO, Canada, Italy,
France) for the creation, among other things, of a rudimentary public
statistics service, in anticipation of future developments.
Three vital steps were therefore taken during PAGEN I: to remedy
methodological shortcomings in the preparation of the national accounts,
improve the data on the informal sector and include them in the national
statistics, and, finally, prepare a National Accounting Plan.
As regards the national accounts, a first methodological note, of
a very didactic nature, was issued for the preparation of the 1985 accounts in
light of the particular context of that time (fixed parity of the currency in
relation to the SDR and a State-controlled economy).
The environment for the 1986 accounts having changed, an automated
system was prepared that incorporated data from the (remaining) public
enterprises and the (emerging) private sector.
Data from 85 large firms were processed and the first results of
the surveys of the informal sector were also available. In addition to the
revised layout for publication of the accounts, a methodological note was
prepared and circulated to Guinean officials.
In 1987 a new company survey was carried out using a more detailed
questionnaire than in the preceding year, more than 200 firms being covered.
A computerized data manual wa3 prepared for survey follow-up. The
computerized system was upgraded, and particular mention should be made of the
iitensive use of computers at the various stages of preparing the national
accounts.
By the end of the first phase of PAGEN I, excluding the national
accounts system and work on the informal sector, 143 files had been created,
viz. 87 Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheets, 43 word processing files, 12 DBase III+
files and 1 edited file. These were merely the files required for record
purposes or for future work (PAGEN II and beyond), particularly statistical
series to be maintained, nomenclature and conversion tables.
In the informal sector, whose importance for Guinea's economy is
obvious, PAGEN I made it possible to: organize a first series of indicative
discussions to help orient intervention in the sector; survey 17,263
establishments in Conakry, Kindia, Kankan, Labe and Mamou; and survey a sample
of 1,200 establishments, of which 900 were retrieved. The results of this
work were used to prepare the national accounts for 1986.
Finally, as regards the National Accounting Plan (PCN), reforms
were undertaken with the following aims:
-     preserving the achievements of the PCN
-     conforming to international standards and norms currently in force



20
-     devising an original plan
-     notwithstanding this originality, creating a plan comparable to
those in neighboring countries
-     taking advantage of new features in accounting
-     meeting economic and statistical information needs.
The execution of this work required the establishment of a working
group, a technical committee and an interministerial committee. Two officials
from the National Accounting Division were permanently seconded to monitoring
this work.
The result is a Guinean General Accounting Plan (PCGG)
complemented by a simplified accounting plan and an aggregated accounting
plan, a conversion table from the PCN to the PCGG and, finally, an application
manual using examples.
The PCGG includes a proposed Statistical and Fiscal Declaration
(DSF), which, subject to agreement with the tax administration authorities, is
intended to become the principal tool for the regular collection of
accounting, statistical and tax information from companies. Exploitation of
the DSF by the new General Directorate of Statistics and Data Processing
should lead to the establishment of a data processing system and a central
register of balance sheets. When the inventory of companies is complete, this
will provide the first part of an information system on companies.
IV.         MANAGEMENT OF THE EXTERNAL DEBT
PAGEN I enabled the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) to
obtain better information on Guinea's external indebtedness. At the start of
PAGEN I, the only locally available data on Guinea's external debts was held
in the Central Bank in the form of manual records, most of these being
seriously deficient. The MEF debt service division functioned poorly, having
very limited information and only a superficial role vis-a-vis creditors
approaching the ministry.
it was evidently extremely urgent to obtain a more accurate
picture of Guinea's debt (total obligations, debt service, arrears situation)
so as to permit negotiations on a firm basis with international organizations
and donors.
Priority was therefore given to computerizing debt data using
standard DBase III software with certain specific applications, such as the
calculation of maturity dates, position statements at given dates and the
introduction of exchange rates to allow simulations that were developed
subsequently.
The data required for creating files were collected, this
systematic investigation work making it possible to list some 300 loan agreements.



21
The computerized system was organized around two main files:
1.    The cover file, providing a "history of the debt," since it
contains all the information pertaining to loan periods and terms
and conditions, and
2.    The maturities file, which contains complete debt schedules and
can thus produce any statistics required.
This latter file is the backbone of the system since it can
produce debt positions for given dates, debt service figures for a given
period (month, year), and medium and long-term projections. These statements
can be produced for a wide range of criteria: type of donor, creditor,
country, and currency. Once the work of data collection and inputting was
completed, it was possible in January 1986 to produce the first estimates of
Guinea's external debt as at the end of 1985. These showed a level of
indebtedness that made it urgent to undertake rescheduling negotiations as
quickly as possible.
For this reason the Republic of Guinea took its case to the Paris
Club. The rescheduling agreement signed on April 18, 1986 involved
US$60 million and provided that the interest rates applicable to the
rescheduled amounts should be the subject of bilateral negotiations between
Guinea and each of its creditors.
These negotiations were held in October 1986, with another series
of talks covering bank and commercial debts taking place during 1987. The
latter negotiations led to the signature of a refinancing agreement covering
US$43 million and involving 23 private creditors.
In addition to these results, namely, the establishment and
maintenance of a computerized debt management system and the rescheduling
negotiations, PAGEN I led to the organization of a debt management unit within
MEF.
Nonetheless, significant shortcomings still remained at the end of
PAGEN I since this new unit has so far been unable to reconcile Guinea's
figures with those of its creditors, let alone undertake the regular
notification of Guinea's debts to the World Bank. Efforts in this area will
be continued as part of PAGEN II.
V.          REFORM OF THE PROCUREMENT SYSTEM
The second main aim of PAGEN I within MEF was to improve
procedures for awarding public contracts by:
-     encouraging public-sector buyers to seek lowest-cost solutions
-     providing information and training for these buyers
-     supporting small and medium Guinean businesses, and



22
-     preparing regulations governing public contracts.
Obtaining the best financial conditions for the State involves
grouping purchases together so as to control the costs of contracts extending
over a period of years (although this has a considerable impact on the
application of the rule that certain contracts be renegotiated annually),*
and the introduction of competition (by using bidding competitions and
upgrading the committees analyzing bids and awarding contracts).
The support provided to small and medium businesses has not yet
produced all the expected results, despite the division of State contracts
into small lots accessible to emerging small companies, most of which lack
sufficient resources.
The preparation of regulations governing public contracts was
completed during PAGEN I through the drafting of the Public Contracts Code,
the General Administrative Cost Specifications (CCAG) applicable to works
contracts (construction and civil engineering), and of CCAG for contracts for
goods and services. These regulations have improved the earlier legal
framework governing public contracts, which for a long time was prejudicial to
Guinea's economy.
'While the information provided to public-sector buyers during the
first phase of PAGEN I was satisfactory, their training could not take place
because of delays in promulgating Guinea's new regulations on public
contracts.
VI.         TRAINING OF GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Basically, the training of civil servants responsible for economic
and financial administration was provided by the National Center for
Management (CNPG) separately from the in-service training given by the
resident experts and short-term consultants.
By the end of PAGEN I, 16,000 man/days of training had been given
by the CNPG (including 480 man/days of training given to the 10 CNPG trainers)
against an initial projection of 8,600 man/days of classroom training. A
number of programs involving teamwork have helped to train many Guinean
officials on tAieir jobs. However, certain planning functions were of such a
strongly technical character that they were virtually individual tasks, which
resulted in the technical assistance during this first phase of the project
being more a process of substitution than skills transfer. This situation
persisted up to the publication of the results of the evaluation tests for
government personnel and the selection of the full complement of permanent
staff for the central and decentralized departments.
Nevertheless, a number of seminars were organized in conjunction
with the evaluation, selection and preparation of permanent staff. These
*     T.N.  Assumed meaning



23
seminars essentially dealt with planning, (RCB indicative planning, modeling
and econometrics), macroeconomics with reference to the use of the MPEGUI
model, microcomputers (introduction to DOS, Lotus 1-2-3 and DBase III-
software), the preparatior, programming and supervision of investment
projects, and debt management.
Practical training and in-service training in the above-mentioned
areas were also organized outside Guinea for MPCI, MEF and CNPG personnel.
The delay in completing the evaluation and selection of government personnel
and the still unfinished posting of most of the permanent staff in the
departments involved in the first phase of the PAGEN made it impossible to
complete the training program, which has therefore been largely carried over
to the second phase. It should, however, be noted that CNPG has acquired a
large specialized library in various areas of economic and financial
management and administration.
CNPG has also, for each activity carried out, compiled a complete
instructional dossier which is now facilitating the organization of training
courses for its own trainers.
Finally, the provision of modules for specialized areas provided
CNPG, at the end of PAGEN I, with basic instructional materials enabling it to
arrange ad hoc seminars in professional areas of relevance to the PAGEN; their
preparation costs will henceforward be lower because of the existence of this
documentation.
CONCLUSION
The foregoing makes it clear that PAGEN I created structures that
operate efficiently, directed by national personnel trained using tested
procedures and provided with appropriate regulatory texts and utilization
manuals. Given the starting situation, this was a large task; much has been
done but much still remains to be done, viz:
Although at the end of PAGEN I short-term macroeconomic analytical
and forecasting tools already existed, it remained to establish a system to
monitor and guide the execution of economic policy; although an investment
programming system was in place, it remained to improve the selection of
investment projects and to supervise their execution; while draft new
procurement regulations had been prepared, it remained to put them into effect
and train those responsible for purchases and contracts by ministries;
although the national accounts and an embryonic statistical service had been
set up, it remained to complement the data collection system and develop
statistical tools; while the Guinean authorities had more information about
the public debt and could project trends therein, it remained to centralize
the relevant information and complete the training of those responsible for
debt management. Finally, although more than 16,000 man/days of training had
been given, this was still modest in light of the needs arising from the
reorientation of economic policy and the reorganization of the public
administration.



24
These needs, fortunately, are being addressed in the context of
the second phase of the project (PAGEN II), wh.'ch is building on the
foundations of PAGEN I.
MICHEL KAMANO
National Project Coordinator



25
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
(Credit 1559-GUI)
PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
TkX.E 1: RELATED PANIK LOANS
Year of
Losn/Credit Titio                            Purpose                        Approval      Status        Comments
First Structural        Promot, key macroeconomic policy changes,             106        Completed
Adjustment Credit       support the Government's economic recovery
program, and allow economic activity to
expand whil  roform meosures ore implemented.
Second Structural       Support the second phase of the Government's          1908        on-going      Second Tranche
Adjustment Credit       Economic and Financial Reform Program and                                       not yet reloasod
addres koy constraints on Guinea's medium-
term growth potential
Second Economic         Provide technical support and training                10m         on-golng
Managemnt Project       nocessary to strengthen economic and
financial management and improve the civil
service system; enhance oid cooperation in
the area of technical assiostnce for
economic management.



?6
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
item                        Drat  Planned      Actual
Identifcnstion              10-09-81           10-09-81
Preparation                 09-30-82           09-30-82
Appraisol Mission           12-14-82           12-14-82
Credit Negotiotions         01-29-86           01-29-86
Credit Signature            03-20-86           03-21-86
Credit effectiveness        07-19-86           07-08-86
Credit Closing             0o-30-89            06-30-90
Credit Completion           12-31-88           01-30-90



27
TAILU A: LOAN 0IS81SEMENTS
Cumultive Estimated and Actual Dlsburseet.
Cumulative    Cumulative    Actual as X       Actual as X
Appraisal     Actual         Estimto oe Total
Estimate
FY 196C                0.6
FY 1066                8.3            2.60            705                235
FY 1607                6.2            6.05            065                64X
FY 1908                9.1            8.48            93X                89X
FY 1989                9.5           11.14            1l7X              1171
FY 1900                              12.02   s/       1271              127X
a/ Due to SOR/S fluctuations, actual disburamente were higher than estimated.



28
TA3LE 4: PROJECT FINANCING COSTS
A. PROJECT COSTS
_____________
Appraloal Estimate
Estimated Costs:                                              000 usi
(not of taxes and duties)                        ---------------------------
Foreign          Local             Total
Macruconoeic Planning, Project Analysis
and 0stional Accounts                         3060.3             147.0            8197.3
Procurement Regulation                          94.6               8.0              97.6
Finance, Budget and Customs Managemnt          921.0              18.0             989.0
External Doebt Management                      190.6               1.0             191.6
Training Actlvitles                           2597.7             124.0            2721.7
Parapublic Reform Program                     1163.0              20.0            1183.0
Other project activities and studios           912.6              60.0             962.6
Subtotal           8929.9             868.0            9292.9
Refinancing of PPF 194                         400.0               -               400.0
Total Base Costs                     9387.9             878.0            9710.9
Physical Contingencles                 191.7             28.4              220.1
Price Contingencies                    998.9             64.6             1068.4
0.0
Total Project Costs         10928.5            465.9            11884.4
S. PROJECT FINANCING
Planned Credit Agre em nt
USS Millions
Source                             Foreign      Local            Total
Government                              -        0.6               0.5
IDA                                     9.6        -               9.6
France                                  0.7                        0.7
UNDP                                     0.8        -              0.3
TOTAL                              10.6      0.5             11.0



29
TABLE 5: Use OF BNM RESOURCES
Statf Inputs
Stag ot Project Cycle I 81  1  82  1   05 1   U4                   I   U6  1 871    U       I s91     o ITotal
I      I        I       I        I       I        I       I       I       I         I
Through Appraisal        I 0.1  1 20.7  1 86.6  I 11.6  1 12.1  I1                     1        1               87.2
Appraisal through        I      I        I        I       17.91            I       I        I      1         17.9
Board Approval           I      I        I       I        I        I       I       I        I      I         I
Board Approval           I      I        I       I        I        I       I       I        I      I         I
through Effectiveness           I        I       I        I  n/l I                 I        I      I         I
Supervision                                                  7 I  I  I  I  7.7  1 18.2  1 15  I 19.4  1 8.4  1  1 63.7
Completion               I      I        I       I        I   .            I       I 1             1.4.21   4.2
I      I        I       I        I       I        I       I       I*1              1



