Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C P. /S sY- 9iZ
Report No. P-3952-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
February 20, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and uay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guinean Syli (CSY)
US$1     24.4 Sylis
1 Syli = US$0.041
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1     -      December 31
ABBREVIATTONS
ADETEF    Agence pour le Developpement des Echanges en Technologie
Economique et Financiere
BCEP      Central Studies Office (Bureau Central d'Etudes des Projets)
BCRG      Central Bank
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agencv
CNtP      National Public Procurement Commission (Commission Nationale
des Marches Publics)
CNTC      National Center for Computing and Management 'in MPS)
CNP       National Productivity Centre (Training Organization)
CPP       Project Preparation Center (in DGPS)
DDE       External Debt Division of the Central Bank/MFF
DGPS      General DLrectorate of Planning and Statistics
DCS       Directoratp of Statistics (in MPR4)
DGP       Directorate of Planning (in MPRN)
Ti n      International Labor Organization
MAEF      Ministrv n'f Financial and Economic Affairs (pre January 1985)
MEF       Ministrv of Fconomv and Finance (after Januarv 1985)
MOF       Ministrv of Finance (pre January 1c'5)
MPRN      Ministry of Planning and Natural Rtsources (after January 1985)
M4PS      Ministrv of Planning and Statistics (pre January 1985)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Guinea
Amount:                SDR 9.7 million (US$9.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Cofinancing:          France (US$0.7 million equivalent)
UNDP (US$0.3 million equivalent)
Project Description:  The project would improie the Government's economic
management through a three-year, first phase program of
technical assistance and staff training, focussing on
macroeconomic management, investment choice and
procurement, control of public finance and extcrnal
debt. The project provides for 23 staff-years of
resident advisors, 326 staff-months of short-term
consultant services, and 45 staff-months of overseas
training for the core economic agencies. The National
Productivity Centre (CNP) would prepare and implement,
in conjunction with the work program and on-the-job
coaching,a program of staff training. Short-term
consultants would help carry out a divestiture program
for the parapublic sector. The project also includes a
fund of US$350,000 for pre-feasibility activities, and
US$300,000 for a bookkeeper/ accountant training
program.
Project Benefits:     The main benefits would be training and development of
staf' expertise in project preparation and economic
analysis, introducing systematic procedures for invest-
ment choice and procurement, strengthening financial and
customs operations, improving management and monitoring
of Guinea's external debt, and improving economic data.
Training activities would promote the introduction of
these procedures throughout the Government. Measurable
outputs would include a rolling, three-year investment
program and annual national accounts statistics, a
project evaluation manual, standardized procurement
procedures and regular external debt reporting.
Project Risks:        Although important inputs to the Government's program
for economic reform, the project's ambitious work
program and goals present substantial risk, implying the
tkeed for careful and frequent supervision by IDA staff.
The use of a single consulting firm with overall
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoru6tion.



responsibility for the IDA-financed technical assistance
for planning reduces the risk of administrative delays,
as does the early designation of senior Guinean staff.
Estimated Costs:
(net of taxes and duties)                               '000 US$
Foreign    Local       Total
Macroeconomic Planning, Project Analysis
and National Accounts                         3050.3    147.0       3197.3
Procurement Regulation                              94.5      3.0        97.5
Finance, Budget and Customs Management             921.0     18.0       939.0
External Debt Management                           190.6      1.0       191.6
Training Activities                               2597.1    124.0      2721.7
Parapublic Reform Program                         1163.0     20.d      1183.0
Otber project activities and studies               912.8     50.0       962.8
Subtotal                            8929.9    363.0      9292.9
Refinancing of PPF 194                             400.0       -        400.0
Total Base Costs                    9337.9    373.0      9692.9
Physical Contingencies               191.7     28.4       220.1
Price Contingencies                  998.9     54.5      1053.4
Total Project Costs                              10520.5    445.9    10966.4
Financing Plan:
US$ millions
Foreign    Local       Total
Government                             -       0.5         0.5
IDA                                   9.5       -          9.5
France                                0.7                  0.7
UINDP                                 0.3       -          0.3
TOTAL                                10.5      0.5        11.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
US$ millions
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                      0.6    3.2    2.4    2.9    0.4
Cumulative                  0.6    3.8    6.2    9.1    9.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Estimated Project Completion Date: December 31, 1988
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no separate appraisal report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 9.7 million (US$9.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a technical assis-
tance project for economic management. France and the United Nations Develop-
ment Program will provide cofinancing in amounts equivalent to US$0.7 million
and US$0.3 million respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with the
Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors in
February 1984. This section summarizes its contents, focusing on chaizges in
Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years. More specifically,
the change in Government Following the death of President Sekou Toure in March
1984 has resulted in a .adically different political orientation which greatly
enlarges the possibilities for close collaboration between Guinea and the
Association, in the context of a major economic reform program (para.16).
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about 1973-74. Economic
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabi-
tants live at the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300
in 1983, Guinea belongs among the least developed countries as classified by
the United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is
about 17 percent, 90 percent of the population has no access to safe water,
and 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.        Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-
examining its development policies, institutions, and relations with the
outside world. Important first steps were taken towards improved economic
management and decentralization of the economy: excessive monev supply was
gradually reduced: more explicit performance criteria and greater autonomy of
public enterprises are being introduced; and a reform of the banking sector
has been initiated. A new Government, which took office on April 1984, is now
committed to more far-reaching economic reforms. There is greater acceptance
of technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation, and explicit recognition of the need for economic pricing of
resources. State retail trade has been discontinued, and many price c:ontrols
have been permitted to lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the agricul-
tural sector. Private investment, small and medium-scale enterprises, foreign
direct investment, and the return of expatriate Cuinean capital are being
encouraged, and some private enterprises have been allowed to import and
export most goods and to borrow and hold foreign exchange. Primary education
is to be revamped and strengthened. Enrolments in higher education have been



-2-
severely reduced and more students are being directed to vocational training:
manpower planning is being introduced, and the guarantee of state employment
to school graduates is being reappraised, with a view to curtailing the
increase in public employment and the wage bill. These measures reflect a
significant and broadly based attempt to address Guinea's deep-seated problems
and poor economic performance, and represent fundamental changes from past
policies.
Recent Performance
5.        Real output of the economy is estimated to have grown at an average
rate of 1.6 percent in real terms between 1979 and 1983. Growth was more
rapid in 1980 (2.6 percent) reflecting a recovery in agriculture and mining.
However agriculture stagnated in 1981, mining and coaistruction declined and
overall growth fell to 0.6 percent. Recovery in 1982 and 1983 - at 1.8 and
1.3 percent respectively, well below the rate of population increase of nearlv
3 percent - resulted from an increase in construction activities, mainly for
preparations for the OAU conference that was to be held in Conakry in May
1984. The primary sector remained the most important throughout the period,
representing 42 percent of GDP, although it produced well below potential for
lack of incentives and adequate pricing policies. Secondary industries,
mining and construction, contributed 23 percent of real GDP, although the
manufacturing sector - mainly public enterprises - produced at less than 15
percent of capacity and registered heavy losses. The tertiary sector account-
ed for the remaining 35 percent of GDP, with real output in commerce declining
by 4 percent from 1979 to 1983, reflecting the poor performance of state
trading enterprises.
6.        Surpluses in the trade account from 1979 to 1983 were more than
offset by rising deficits in services and private transfers. Despite impor-
tant official transfers, the current account consistently recorded deficits.
Capital inflows were not sufficient to offset these current account deficits,
which were joined by important errors and omissions -- ve-y likely reflecting
heavy unrecorded capital flight. The overall balance of payments deficits
increased from US$40 million in 1979 to US$85 million in 1983. Overall
deficits were financed through reduction in net foreign assets and accumula-
tion of external debt arrears, which at over US$200 million at the end of 1983
represent more than 40 percent of annual export earnings.
7.        After registering a slight surplus in 1981, the Government's finan-
cial situation steadily deteriorated. In 1982 despite an increase in revenue
the overall deficit approached 2 billion Sylis. This was largely because of
transfers of 5.5 billion Sylis to the public enterprises following the liqui-
dation of the accumulated debt to the banking system of the sectoral holding
companies, which were abolished in 1981. In 1983, Government revenues were
about 11 percent lower than in 1982. This reflected lower direct tax collec-
tions as well as falling customs duties and taxes on foods and services, as
unrecorded private trade transactions grew to dominate the consumer sector.
Non-tax revenues consisting of transfers from the parastatals to the equipment
budget fell by 25 percent following a reduction in profits of IMPORTEX, the
state trading company, as its de jure monopoly was eroded by private



- 3 -
importers. The overall Government deficit tripled to 6.3 billion Sylis, or 38
percent of expenditure, the largest deficit recorded in recent years.
8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive investment
in Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature. During the last development
plan (October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic investment reached
US$478 million (55 percent of planned expenditure) averaging 10 percent of
GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-
thirds of centrally-planned investment was financed by foreign assistance.
The ongoing plan (1981-85) projected much higher investments of US$1.6 billion
(in 1980 prices), favoring collectivized agriculture (31 percent) and industry
(14 percent). Many of the proposed projects remain in preliminary stages of
preparaL-.in, however, and their financing is not sure. The new Government is
reviewing the investment program and, with the help of the Association, is
reassessing its project priorities. It appears unlikely that the proposed
investment targets can be reached. During the 1981-83 period, public and
parapublic investment represented about US$200 million per year ir, current
terms, about the same proportion of GNP as the previous plan exercise.
9.        Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, the Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget
for maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of
the viability of state enterprises. The least successful ones (including the
entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry) will be closed
down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs, mostly with
external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim at making
parastatals financially self-sufficient, autonomous in their management, more
responsive to market mechanisms, and more receptive to technical assistance.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
10.       Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries,
expanded relations with Arab nations and with multilateral sources. Guinea
qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and successfully negotiated a Stand-By Agreement in 1982. Howev-
er, this agreement lapsed owing to the Government's inability to meet some of
the agreed financial performance criteria, and to reach an understanding with
the Fund on the issue of adjusting the overvalued exchange rate.
11.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance Investments in infra-
structture and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has resulted in a
burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for years, a major
problem. Guinea's outstanding public and private external guaranteed debt
exceeded US$1.5 billion as of December 31, 1983 of which US$1.2 billion (66
percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on this debt are projected
at US$132 million per annum over 1985-87. Foreign exchange shortages have
hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears totalled US$220
million at the end of 1983. The ratio of public and publicly guaranteed debt
service obligations to gross export earnings in 1983 was about 24 percent.
Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about 17 percent of export
receipts. Private non-guaranteed debt is estimated at US$300 million in 1983



- 4 -
(20 percent of GNP), and its debt service represented about 10 percent of the
1983 export earnings.
12.       Although Guinea's debt servicing has shown some improvement, accumu-
lated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is new
debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of foreign
exchange. In the past, the Government addressed the problem through bilateral
debt rescheduling, and measures to improve debt management by the External
Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank provided technical
advice as part of its economic work. Government has also undertaken a strict-
er control of investments financed by external credits. The pressure on
imports was somewhat relieved in recent years by official toleration of some
private exports at the free rate outside official foreign exchange channels.
However successful these operations may be, Guinea will have to rely on
substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms during the
next few years. This will be needed not only for investment purposes, but
also to provide foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer good imports
which are vital to stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints,
particularly in the rural sector. Furthermore, net public savings after debt
service will be inadequate u,til at least the late 1980s, and local cost and
recurrent expenditure financing by external sources will be needed.
Prospects
13.       Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial based
on its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However, with 80
percent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest national
savings (about 9.4 percent of GDP in 1983) combined with an acute shortage of
foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges oiu the country's
ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign
capital for investment in mining, agroindustry, and, eventually, petroleum
development.
14.       During the 1980s Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the entry into operation of a diamond mine in
1984. Existing mining operations have few prospects for expansion in the
coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be hard to
reverse immediately. At the same time price distortions linked to the over-
valued exchange rate discourage the substitution of the large food imports by
domestic production, while the debt service burden remains heavy.
15.       At present Guinea is excessively dependent on bauxite mining for its
foreign exchange. Diversification of Its mineral production is thus a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. Iron ore mining is
one possibility now under active investigation, as are oil exploration and
development of other minerals.
16.       The Association and the IMF are helping the Government formulate and
implement an economic reform program aimed at further encouraging private
sector development, notably in agriculture, while at the same time increasing
the efficiency of the public sector and improving resource management. Partic-
ularly crucial will be a major devaluation, with accompanying measures to



- 5 -
correct price distortions, and thereby reform the structure of agricultural
incentives. The authorities also plan to introduce rigorous budgetary mea-
sures and the rational programming of public investments. To reverse the
previous regime's economic policies, the new authorities plan most dramatical-
ly to open up the economy to the private sector and greatly reduce the scope
of the Government's direct involvement in the productive sectors. The project
supports a large-scale public enterprise divestiture program, the success of
which will depend on the overall economic reform program's ability to attract
and encourage private entrepreneurs. To emerge from its burden of external
debt, Guinea plans to seek a multilateral debt rescheduling in 1985 and
subsequently limit its foreign borrowing at appropriately concessional terms.
At the Association's suggestion, the Government has examined these interrelat-
ed problems, and has prepared a coordinated economic reform program eligible
for donor support. This program will be the basis for an IMF Standby Arrange-
ment in 1985, and the Association will soon appraise a Structural Adjustment
Credit and help mobilize balance of payments support from other donors.
Following the major Agricultural Sector Review organized by the Bank with the
support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO), its
report (GUI-4672, April 15, 1984) also represents a significant step in
assisting the Government to reform agricultural sector policies. A long-term
strategy and agricultural investment program are now under preparation with
the Association's help.
17.       However, once the Government embarks on major reforms, Guinea would
face a difficult transition period during the late 1980s when increased
foreign assistance, on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the balance
of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realization of the
country's considerable development potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONIS IN GUINEA
18.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the profitable bauxite mining project at Boke. This project was
followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with the Government: (i) rehabilitation and mainte-
nance of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii)
mining development; and (iv) development of the rural seccor. IDA operations
in each of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on
sectoral planning, institution building and training. The FY79 First Educa-
tion Project was very satisfactorily implemented, and provided a sound basis
for the Second Education Project, which is proceeding well. The First Power
Project (FY81) is rehabilitating the Conakrv power system. Following the
conclusions of the UNDP-financed W4ater Resources Master Plan, for which the
Bank was executing agency, a Second Power Engineering and Technical Assistance
Credit has been appraised. It would help prepare a long-term electric genera-
tion and transmission program to exploit Guinea's substantial hydroelectric
potential. A Water Supply project (FY79) provides similar assistance, and was
partially the precursor of the Conakry Urban Development project (FY84), which
assists the Government in managing urban growth in the capital region. The
Second Highway Project was successfully completed in 1984 and Highways III



-6-
(FY84), which includes the reconstruction of the country's first priority road
link, cortinues with a third phase of maintenance and rehabilitation under a
revamped highway organization. Implementation of the renovation works under
the Conakry Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Public enterprise
rehabilitation programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project
(FY81) have begun. Recent operations to assist efforts to promote private
investment, a first IFC loan and investment for the AREDOR diamond mining
company, and the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84), have also
started well.
19.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Support for
small private producers, including marketing and financial incentives, and
access to modern technology and applied agricultural research, has been almost
nonexistent. To deal with these fundamental problems, the Association has
supported intervention in two sub-sectors with substantial growth potential.
The Livestock Development Project (FY81) aimed at strengthening the national
livestock planning institutions, improving animal health and productivity and
training livestock sector staff. However the continuation of enforced govern-
ment cattle purchasing created significant implementation problems and the
Credit was cancelled on Septeriber 12, 1983. The new Government has removed
these obstacles, and a Second Livestock project is being prepared, based
largely on the preparatory woi-k completed under the first project, but modi-
fied to take into account the new circumstances. The Rice Development Project
(FY80) stresses national institution-building and introduces pilot low-cost
improved rice production methods in an area with high potential.  In addition,
as part of the intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government,
the Agricultural Sector Review (para. 16) provides the focus for new direc-
tions for agricultural development and policy formulation. The Government has
accepted the need for improved incentives and the absolute priority of
smallholder agriculture. These discussions will be pursued, and supported by
the lending program, inter alia, in a Regional Rice Development Project, which
has recently been appraised, and by other agricultural projects addressing the
sector's institutional and training needs.
20.       Bank Group operations in Guinea now include fourteen TDA Credits
totalling US$185.2 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5 million.
Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the undisbursed
balance) compares verv favorably with that of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development. Irs disbursement profile matches
the Regional profile.
21.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national, project
and sector levels to improve existing economic mechanisms, promote market
forces and thus begin the stnrctural adjustment of the Guinean economy, and
promote growth through support to the directly productive sectors. Specific
targets are: (a) providing balance of payments support for key imports
needed to increase production, in support of the overall economic reform
program (para. 16); (b) giving prioritv to policy-based projects that increase
production; (c) introducing technical assistance directed towards policy



reforms, improved economic management and resource allocation; (d) improving
absorptive capacity in those social and infrastructure sectors which support
the productive sectors, through rehabilitation, and technical and managerial
training; and (e) improving capital flows through the promotion of private
investment and increasing the level of cofinancing. During the preparation of
the economic reform program, the Association will help the Government mobilize
the necessary increased financial support from other donors.
22.       The Association is planning to expand agricultural operatiuns once
the devaluation has created the needed incentive structure for smallholder
agriculture, in the context of a long-term strategy for agricultural develop-
ment, which is under preparation. It is equally important for the Bank to
deepen its understanding of the industrial sector through additional sector
work and policy discussions, possibly leading to a second industrial rehabili-
tation operation once the Government has defined its industrial policy and the
role of public enterprises (para. 46). The Association is also providing
technical advice to Government for diversifying mining activities, including
promotion of secondary minerals as well as the proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron
ore project, through a mineral development project which will be appraised
later this year.
23.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1984 stood at about 13 percent (including
undisbursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11
percent by 1987 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on
public debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to
decline to 3.7 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
24.       Guinea's economic performance lias been disappointing and well below
potential for a number of reasons, not least of which have been the weaknesses
of institutions charged with managing the economy. Recognition of the need
for help in improving economic management, particularly with the decision to
undertake a medium-term economic reform program, has led the Government to
request IDA assistance. The program sketched out above (paras. 13-17), which
the Government is in the course of preparing with the help of the Association
and the IMF, will require careful analysis of Guinea's policy options, as well
as a much stronger planning and administrative capacity. Unfortunately,
measured against the effort required, the Government's institutional capacity
remains very limited and responsibilitv for planning decisions is diffused
among many bodies.
25.       The Planning Process Inherited by the New Government.  The planning
process in Guinea has been a combination of decentralized project preparation
and centralized sectoral planning, with the technical ministries concentrating
on project preparation. In practice, there has been little sectoral or
sub-sectoral planning within the technical ministries. Detailed project
preparation has been undertaken usually only when projects were expected to be
submitted for donor finance, and generally with heavy donor involvement. To
date there has been no program planning and only the beginnings of sectoral
investment programs, generally, again, at donor urging. Under the previous



- 8 -
and highly centralized Government, once the Plan, prepared by the Director-
ate-General of Planning and Statistics was adopted by political bodies,
projects were examined for conformity with its largely non-economic objec-
tives, sometimes including a review of the economic justification of project
proposals. In practice, however, projects reached a very advanced stage, near
approval or negotiatior. with potential donors or suppliers, before their
economic and institutional aspects were reviewed by the Central Studies Office
(BCEP 1/), an agency in the Presidency, and the technical ministry, which is
responsible for preparation and execution of a project, submits it to the
Council of Ministers for approval. If external resources are s.ught, two
other ministries become involved: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Interna-
tional Cooperation which coordinates the programs of bilateral donors and the
European Development Fund; and the Central Bank, which estimates and provides
guidelines on the foreign exchange likely to be required to support the
national development effort, and coordinates the assistance provided by the
World Bank Group, AfDB and the IMF.
26.       Most of the work on the current 1981-85 plan was done at DGPS, over
a five-month period preceding its adoption in late 1981. This did not allow
enough time for a complete assessment of the economic situation or the justi-
fication of projects suggested by the technical ministries for inclusion in
the Plan. In the end, projects were included mainly because financing was
available and not necessarily because they contributed to important national
economic development objectives. This reflected a tendency to view planning
as a process that recurs every four or five years as part of preparing a
1/   BCEP, created in October 1982, had been asigned about 30 of the most
capable personnel from technical ministries. Consistent with previous
centralization attempts, it tried to screen all development projects
prepared by technical ministries, all proposed foreign investment, and
most proposed local private investment. In addition to examining the
technical soundness and foreign exchange implications of proposed
activities, BCEP prepared tenders, reviewed contracts and participated in
negotiations. While the technical ministries had de facto retained
project preparation activities, BCEP's existence created overlapping
responsibilities, particularlv with MPRN, for investment screening and
contract authorization. Moreover, BCEP's role in approving all projects
and contracts greatly slowed planning and procurement decisions. These
delays resulted from the sheer volume of decisions to be vetted, and the
lack of systematic formalized work procedures, as well as the newness of
this structure and the small number and relative inexperience of its
staff. While BCEP tried generally to play a constructive role in
introducing cost-consciousness and encouraging careful negotiation with
suppliers and financing sources, under the reorganization of Government
being introduced by the new regime, its role has been severely reduced,
with planning entrusted to the Ministry of Planning and Natural
Resources, and procurement procedures streamlined and largely delegated
to technical ministries under the purview of a new National Commission
for Public Procurement in the Ministrv of Economy and Finance (para. 34).



- 9 -
descriptive Plan document, rather than as an iterative process involving
policy formulation, the development and execution of projects, and the evalua-
tion of results and achievements. The mix of projects lacks overall coherence
and frequently fails to exploit and develop intra- and inter-sectoral linkag-
es. Projects are sometimes redundant and often ignore previous project
experience. Although MPRN is responsible for integrating sector and sub-
sector plans and projects, the types of projects currently underway and
proposed for financing suggest that coordination is minimal, not only across
sectors, but even frequently within sectors. This lack of coordination and
clear definition of responsibility led to duplication of effort and failure to
exploit project complementarities. The macro-economic implications (financ-
ing, debt repayment and the balance of payments) are seldom analysed. One
reason for this is the scarcity of accurate, complete and up-to-date data on
external debt obligations. Another is that projects are frequently presented
to ministries by equipment suppliers, consulting firms, potential private
partners and donors with a commitment to obtain financing or to provide
management services. It is not surprising that analysis rarely goes beyond
the financial level. Often, even a rigorous technical and financial analysis
is lacking.
27.       Under the previous Government, the role and powers of the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) had been severely eroded, as decisions about the allocation
of Government revenues were increasingly centralized in the President's
office. The Ministry had not been allowed to play its traditional role of
deteL-mining budget priorities and monitoring use of recurrent and investment
budgets accorded to the technical ministries, and lacked the capacity for
forecasting or policy analysis. There was no formal consultation on the
budget or the public investment program. In MOF's Budget, Customs and Trea-
surv Directorates obsolete procedures and nomenclature, related largely to the
experience of the senior staff, are employed. Many date back to French
procedures of 1945, which have since been improved, modernized and adapted to
current African conditions: this absence of written procedures frustrates
attempts to ensure systematic and adequate control of tax collection and
monitoring of foreign borrowing, current and capital expenditures financed
from external gr-nts and loans, and even normal Government budget operations.
Government audit functions to some extent were performed bv the Ministry of
State Control (MCE), which also assured overall supervision of the public
enterprises, including Government transfers to them. Although replete with
staff, MCE's methods were similarly antiquated.
28.       The Central Bank (BCRG) had also been weakened, with decisions on
monetary policy and the management of the exchange rate, external debt and the
country's foreign exchange reserves taken by the President's Office. BCRG's
staff continue to employ out-of-date methods for recording and management of
public external debt, and despite technical advice over the past few years
from staff of the Association and the IMF, external debt procedures remain
very weak. With the money supply and credit expansion determined politically
under the former regime, monetarv and credit statistics are virtually worth-
less and show wide fluctuations, and there has been effectively no control
over credit to the government and parastatal sectors. Although this unaccept-
able situation is largely the result of the political decision effectively not
to allow the Central Bank to play a normal role, the overall impact over the



- 10 -
1960-1984 period was a gradual erosion in BCRG's authority and professional
abilities.
29.       The absence of adequate basic national accounts and sectoral statis-
tics, both at central and technical ministry levels, has greatly hampered
efforts to project the impact of economic policy changes and proposed projects
on the performance of the Guinean economy. This lack of a reliable data base
and the absence of systematic data gathering also preclude sound policy and
investment analysis and coherent program definition. This is particularly a
problem in the financial transactions of the central government and the
parastatals, national and sectoral accounts statistics, and external transac-
tions, including balance of payments and external debt. In addition, there is
scarcity of adequately trained personnel, office space, office equipment,
basic supplies and reference materials, which has a detrimental effect on
working conditions. Few efforts have been made to introduce systematic work
methods and procedural manuals, organize proper office facilities and plan
work programs. Perhaps most significantly, with Guinea's relative isolation
and a general downgrading of the educational system, many civil servants lack
the training, experience and exposure to outside ideas that would enable them
to propose policies and analyse their impact. These problems are compounded
by inadequate incentives offered by low salary scales in the civil service,
leading to high absenteeism, low productivity and staff morale, and insuffi-
cient discipline.
30.       Training Issues.  Much will need to be done to bring the performance
of the civil service up to the standard needed to mount a sustained develop-
ment effort. In the core ministries, the secrecy and absolute centralization
of decision-making practiced by the former regime did not permit staff devel-
opment and training. There are a few cases of long-term personnel that have
received no on-the-job training, formal upgrading or training courses to
improve their skills. Large numbers of younger staff, recent graduates of the
universities in Guinea, have few years of experience and have never worked in
an efficient, functioning administration. In the last 15 years, Guinea has
replaced almost entirely the last of any civil servants who had received skill
training outside of Guinea and almost all who would ha-re served in the pre-
independenep administration. This scarcity of experier..eed and skilled person-
nel is aggravated Dy the lack of a systematic approach to problem-solving and
of models used in planning and control, most notably auditing. Absenteeism
and short work hours are the norm, as well as a severe lac:k of motivation.
31.       Base skills have to be improved if the Government is to be able to
apply a systematic approach to management of the economy. Many skills for
economic, financial and statistical analysis are outdated. Much of the actual
work is done manually, without calculators or copiers, for example. The
productivity level is low and the work of a low quality, compared to the needs
of a government attempting to improve the country's economic condition. It is
a situation where on-the-job learning is difficult because the supervisor is
outdated, or lacks the training and experience himself. Guinean managers
often state that they feel they have adequate means to motivate persounel
through the work itself, provided there is adequate equipment and facilities.
However, key decision-makers suggest that many staff do not know what they do
not know, and that a generalized retraining is needed, following a strategy of



- 11 -
starting with basic skills and the introduction of new systems and procedures.
The backgrounds of many civil servants reveal intensive theoretical training
rather than skill development. The project's training component will attempt
to address some of these problems (para. 48, Annex VIII).
32.       Steps toward Reform.  Recognizing the results of the lack of effec-
tive economic management in Guinea, the former Government had started an
active search for new approaches to improve the situation. Progress toward
reform was slow, owing to the political reluctance of the previous leaders to
modify structures and institutieas.  After llscussions with IDA following the
change of government, however, the new authorities decided to act decisively
on these issues, in the context of the reform of the Guinean economy and their
general review of Guinea's public administrative structures and procedures.
The new leadership is aware that capacity for general and sectoral planning
needs to be developed, along with a strengthened capability for short- and
medium-term economic management and stronger control of revenue and expendi-
tures.
33.       As preparation of the economic reform program proceeded, the new
authorities decided that a complete overhaul of the institutions would be
necessary. Consultants financed under the PPF advance examined the relation-
ship between the Ministry of Planning and Statistics and other agencies,
particularly BCEP, and the functioning of the Ministry of Finance. The IMF
reviewed the structure and operations of the Central Bank. Following discus-
sions with the Association and the Fund, and in the context of a major reform
of Government organization in December 1984, the authorities decided to
undertake immediately a complete organizational overhaul of the three key
ministries charged with economic management.
34.       The Central Bank will be reorganized with IMF assistance, and given
the powers traditionally assigned to a central banking authority. The Minis-
try of Planning and Natural Resources (MPRN) will be responsible for macroeco-
nomic planning and management (in cooperation with the Ministrv of Economy and
finance), sector planning and investment programming (in cooperation with the
technical ministries), coordination of external aid, project evaluation and
monitoring, preparation of national accounts statistics and other statistical
enquiries. (MPRN also has directorates general responsible for energy and
mining, which will also be assisted under upcoming IDA projects.) At the
Government's request, France has agreed to support the reorganization and
strengthening of the new Ministrv of Economy and Finance (MEF) under a
twinning arrangement, similar to the one in Niger (para. 45). MEF has been
given traditional functions of revenue and expenditure control and audit,
external and domestic borrowing, and assumes responsibility for public enter-
prise financial supervision from the abolished Ministry of State Control. A
new National Commission for Public Procurement (Commission Nationale des
Marches Publics, CNMP) in the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be respon-
sible for the elaboration of public procurement procedures and seeing that
they are followed. Formalized in earlv 1985 after discussion with IDA staff,
legal texts confirm the formal powers and organization of each minis-
try/agency, regrouping functions now performed by other agencies that have
been abolished. The Government also plans to formally change the planning and
investment choice process at the technical level, and responsibility is to be



- 12 -
given to technical ministries for sectoral strategies and investment programs,
which will be coordinated by the MPRN and MEF into a three-year investment
program updated and revised annually. The proposed project supports these
organizational changes and regrouping of responsibility for economic manage-
ment decisions (para. 42).
35.       As experience is gained during the implementatinn of the economic
reform program, further adjustment of the planning and finance institutions
during the project implementation period may be expected. The project design
takes this into account. It focuses on immediate operational measures to
improve the quality and efficiency of economic management. Special priorities
are investment analysis and public sector procurement, budget and customs
management, the preparation of the short- and medium-term-economic program
based on an analysis of past performance; and collection of sector and macro-
economic data needed for the preparation of an investment program. The train-
ing needs of Guinean staff involved in these tasks will be addressed.
36.       Other Donor Support for Planning.  Other donors have agreed to
provide technical assistance for economic management. In the past UNDP has
financed several technical assistance operations, including help for then-DGPS
to establish a Project PreparatIon Center and to introduce computer processing
of data. The UNDP projects had only very limited success, because of the
ambiguity of the roles played by the agencies being helped and the limited
institutional objectives in the operations, and the staff productivity and
morale problems noted above. UNDP is now reviewing its future support for
economic management in light of the IDA-led effort, and is helping prepare the
legal reorganization. After discussions with IDA, other donors are joining in
providing assistance to core ministries. Canada has agreed to provide one
technical assistant to the statistics directorate of MPRN to improve external
trade, investment and production statistics. Italy will supply two special-
ists to MPRN for two years, to work in areas complementary to the IDA-financed
program: one will assist the industrv, energy and mines division of MPRN's
investment directorate in analysing projects and programs in these three
important sectors, while another will do basic survey work in the statistics
division, collecting data important for the agriculture and industry portions
of the national accounts estimates (para. 44). France will assist the Minis-
try of Economy and Finance (para. 45). The donors interested in the core
ministries have kept in close touch with IDA during project preparation, and
the proposed project reflects a coordinated approach to the needs for techni-
cal assistance for economic management.
Role of the Association
37.       Through its lending program and economic and sector work, the
Association has been actively involved in technical assistance at the sectoral
and national level. As the exchanges between the Government and IDA intensi-
fied over b-oad questions of economic management, attention was increasingly
focussed on the performance and operation of core ministries. All IDA-
assisted projects include technical assistance and training for personnel of
the executing ministry, and IDA has developed in most sectors an effective
working relationship. This allowed the Association to help the Government



- 13 -
address institutional and management issues, a particularly important task for
the new authorities.
38.       The proposed project was identified in late 1981 during an economic
mission, folloving a request for technical assistance from the Ministry of
State Control. It was prepared by the Government and consultants financed
under two PPF advances, with the assistance of IDA staff. The two PPF advanc-
es financed management and training consultants, preparation of architectural
plans, and project start-up activities, including the reorganization studies
and their legal implementation.
39.       The Association's broad lending experience in many sectors, sector
work (in transport, agriculture and industry) and the increasingly productive
macroeconomic discussions the Association has had with the Government, over
the last two years in particular, have created a sound basis for IDA support
for the Government's efforts to improve its economic management processes.
On-going projects in power, water, agriculture, education and highways include
the preparation of investment programs and strengthening of sector management
and planning bodies. Consistent with efforts to promote the rural sector
following the publication of the Agricultural Sector Review, the Government is
strengthening agricultural project selection and defining the organization and
institutional strategy for the Ministry of Agriculture. A 1981 study of the
parapublic sector (Report 3046-GUI) is a precursor to the parapublic action
plan under the proposed project (Annex V). While assisting the Government in
preparing and carrying out its economic reform program, we shall continue the
discussion on institutional development and of the need for technical assis-
tance. The proposed project will help the Government and other donors identi-
fy further resources that might contribute to strengthening the planning
process, while furthering the general economic and sectoral dialogue.
40.       Given the necessarily long-term nature of building economic manage-
ment institutions, a gradualist approach seems the soundest one. The project
was appraised in December 1982 but processing was delayed because the respon-
sibilities of the various agencies remained confused. Following the change in
Government in April 1984, the project was reappraised. The components were
revised to reflect the new Government's decision to start with a reorganiza-
tion of its planning processes, with an emphasis in this first stage on
immediate operational requirements and the training of staff. Negotiations
were held in Washington in January 1985 with a delegation led by Captain Jean
Traore, Minister of State for Planning and Natural Resources. The Government
agreed during negotiations to continue the discussions with the Association of
its planning institutions, and to prepare by February 15, 1987 for discussion
with IDA a long-term institutional development and training program for
economic management (Section 3.03(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
The proposed project provides consultant funds for assistance in preparing
such a plan, and the issue will be raised during supervision.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT 2/
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The principal aim of the project would be to improve the quality of
the Government's economic management, through a three-year, first phase
program of technical assistance and staff training. The project would have
five main components covering investment analysis, general planning, control
of public expenditure and revenues, economic data, and training. Important
but smaller components would address the management of external debt statis-
tics, procurement procedures and the parapublic sector.
42.       The immediate objectives of the investment analysis component would
be to improve the capacity of the Ministrv of Planning and Natural Resources
and the technical ministries for programming, evaluation and monitoring of the
public investment program and the analysis of the capital and recurrent cost
implications of Plan activities. MPRN would also begin to strengthen general
macroeconomic and sector planning, and using consultants would undertake with
other ministries an initial diagnostic survey of the parapublic sector.   The
economic data component would seek to improve MPRN's estimates of the national
accounts aggregates, by (a) making better use of existing data, (b) undertak-
ing simple surveys to estimate unavailable data, and (c) formulating guide-
lines for a longer-term statistical program. The Ministry of Economy and
Fi-aance component would introduce modernized procedures for treasury, budget
and customs administration, while the external debt component would improve
MOF's monitoring and management of external debt. This would assist the
Govvernment in preparing for a multilateral debt rescheduling, part of its
economic reform program (para. 16) and in reviewing the acquisition of new
external debt on terms appropriate for each new project. Procure-
ment procedures would be elaborated and introduced by MEF's new National
Public Procurement Commission. A planning, financial and economic training
program, to be implemented by the National Productivity Center (CNP), would be
integrated with the project-supported work programs of the participating
agencies. The parapublic component aims at restructuring the public enter-
prise sector by a large-scale divestiture program.
43.       Investment Analysis.  The project provides for expatriate special-
ists in project preparation, economic and financial analysis, to assist the
staff of MPRN in the identification, preparation and selection of investment
projects, including a definition of the criteria to be followed and the
procedures to be employed by the technical ministries, who will remain respon-
sible for project preparation and implementation. MPRN would develop an
appropriate operational manual and supervise its implementation throughout the
Government according to a timetable to be agreed with the Association before
March 31, ;986 (Section 3.07(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). More
specifically, the project would finance one resident Principal Project
2/   There is no separate appraisal report for the project.  Annex III lists
key events and special conditions.



- L5 -
Planning Advisor to the chief of the Investment Directorate of MPRN for three
years, together with specialized consultants in organization and management,
economic and financial analysis (46 staff-montbi). They would help the MPRN
staff implement the work program outlined above and review sectoral strategies
and investment programs prepared by the technical ministries to ensure their
consistency with sound project planning and investment analysis. In particu-
lar, the resident specialist will coordinate the preparation, prior to March
31, 1986 of a 1986/88 investment program, the first of a series of three-year
rolling investment programs that would be revised and updated annually (Sec-
tion 3.04(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). About 15 staff-months of
short-term sectoral planning specialists would work with MPRN and the sectoral
ministries at developing sectoral plans and investment programs 3/. The
project also provides a US$350,000 fund for -refeasibility studies of project
proposals which the Government and the Association agree seem to merit further
examination before full feasibility studies are undertaken.
44.       Macroeconomic Planning.  The project would finance a resident
macroeconomic planner to assist MPRN's General Planning Division for three
years in preparing a diagnostic of the Guinean economy, and undertaking
appropriate macroeconomic, sectoral and policy analysis as a framework for the
programming and financing public investment. After a review of past perfor-
mance and identification of constraints to development, the division would
prepare an outline strategy for the public investment program and related
policies, focussing on the overall potential for developing the rural and
agricultural sectors. The working group would prepare the macroeconomic and
policy framework for the rolling three investment programs, and as appropriate
would supply macroeconomic input and comments to the technical ministries
preparing sectoral investment programs.
45.       Economic Data.  Initially, the project will provide MPRN's Statis-
tics Directorate (DS) with one rull time economist/statistician for three
years, supported by 45 staff-months of part-time statisticians on shorter
assignments. This team would help DS staff prepare national accounts esti-
mates to provide a macroeconomic framework for planning and policy, and in the
process update national accounting plans and analytical techniques. A first
set of estimates would be prepared by June 30, 1986 and updated annually
thereafter according to an annual work plan to be agreed with the Association
by March 31, 1986 (Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement). In
line with identified priorities for economic reform, the consultants and a
resident statistician financed by CIDA will also help MPRN and technical
ministry staff collect and estimate data on sectoral performance, particularly
in agriculture and industry, make indirect estimates of external trade data
(using IMPORTEX and BCRG data) and undertake household and production surveys.
With existing census statistics, which MPRN's Human Resources Division is in
3/   This work will be coordinated with the preparation of sectoral strategies
and investment programs in energy, water supply, transport, mining and
agriculture under on-going and proposed TDA projects and industrial
sector work planned by UNIDO (with IDA involvement) (Annex VI).



- 16 -
the process of finalizing, this should greatly improve efforts to understand
the operation and performance of the economy, and identify sectoral linkages.
The three-year work program would also include 14 staff-months of short-term
consultants for specific studies, including price surveys, a farm budget
survey, etc., which would be carried out in close collaboration with the
statistician and planner financed by the Ttalian Government (para. 35). The
master plan for a medium-term statistical program would be prepared with
assistance from the principal statistical advisor. The Government has agreed
to adhere to an annual statistical work program supported by the IDA-, CIDA-
and Italy-financed experts (Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The project would also finance computer software, spare parts and
training for MPRN's National Center for Computing and Management (CRIG). CNIG
would continue to provide computing support to the statistical effort, and
with consultant help, prepare a modest Computer Development Master Plan, to
define Government computer training and equipment requirements over the
medium-term.
46.       Ministry of Economy and Finance.  Under a twinning arrangement 4/,
the Guinean Ministry of Economy and Finance would be twinned with the French
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget through its non-profit association
ADETEF. Under the proposed arrangement, France would provide support for the
work program of MEF by the secondment of a resident specialist to the office
of the Minister of Economy and Finance and one to the Customs Service, as well
as eighteen visits of up to three months each by experts drawn from its own
staff and from other French ministries such as the Ministries of Plan and
Cooperation. The MEF advisor would help: (a) critically analyse current
budget procedures, the payments circuit and the relationship between
departments in MEF and between MEF and MPRN; (b) assisted by the short-term
experts, update Government budgeting and financial control procedures,
according to modern simplified nomenclature and accounting methods, and
introduce these procedures throughout the Government; and (c) improve revenue
collection and control and day-to-day management of the treasury, including
more timely transfers of direct and indirect tax revenues to the general
accounts. The specialist in the Customs Service would: (a) critically analyse
existing customs procedures and the current customs code to identify the
causes for the low collections and the high incidence of fraud and evasion;
and (b) introduce and implement a new, simplified customs code and enforcement
procedures. In addition to the secondment of French staff, France will
organize training in its own departments and offer other training
possibilities in France for Guinean staff. The signature of a first protocol
defining a two-year cooperation program in the field of public finance
management will be a condition of disbursement on this component. A Franco-
Guinean committee will be established to periodically review the progress
achieved under this bilateral cooperation agreement and take the necessary
measures to ensure proper implementation of the MEF work program. Part of the
4/   A twinning arrangement is a professional relationship between an
operating entity in a developing country and a similar but more mature
organization elsewhere.



- 17 -
US$150,000 fund for unidentified equipment will assist MEF in acquiring
necessary equipment, including computers. needed for these tasks.
47.       External Debt Management.  With assistance by IDA staff over the
past three years, the External Debt Division (DDE) of the Central Bank has
greatly improved its monitoring of external debt payments. In line with the
reorganization, DDE would be transferred to the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, which will henceforth be responsible for contracting, monitoring and
servicing external debt. To prepare for the economic reform program, to
permit better monitoring of the debt in the future, and to lay the basis for
the eventual creation of an Autonomous Debt Agency (Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement, CAM), DDE staff need to develop their skills in the proper
management of the debt portfolio and acquisition of new debt. The project
thus provides 12 staff-months of part-time consultant assistance to DDE to (a)
perform a complete audit of Guinea's external debt, checking data with major
creditors; (b) improve the timeliness, coverage and frequency of the debt
reporting system, by implementing by March 31, 1986 a quarterly reporting
system analysing the external debt profile (Section 3.08(b) of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement); and (c) strengthen DDE's ability to assess the repay-
ment capacity and define appropriate financing terms for development projects
and investments requiring debt guarantees, in order to help articulate a
public sector borrowing strategy within the country's limited debt capacity.
Funds for study tours for DDE staff to visit external debt divisions and CAAs
in other developing countries are included. The project would also finance
the acquisition of a mini-computer for the introduction of a computerized debt
monitoring and analysis system (para. 56).
48.       Training Component.  A full-time resident expatriate Training
Advisor would assist the staff of the National Productivity Center (CNP)
prepare and implement a program of staff training in support of the other
project components (Annexes IV and VII) and linked directly into the work
program. With the participation of MPRN's project planner and macroeconomist
and the statistical advisor at DS, the short-term specialists, and visiting
training officers specialized in the topics to be covered, training would be
provided in economic and financial analysis, management systems, statistics,
national accounts, computing and procurement management. In addition to on-
the-job coaching by the resident and short-term advisors, approximately 400
higher level staff would be trained in 21 training courses of two- to four-
week duration, during which they would be released full-time from their other
duties. Staff of MPRN, MEF, and CNMP, and officials from technical ministries
involved in project preparation and analysis, would participate. To improve
the support for higher level staff, approximately 60 typists, clerks and
computer operators would also be trained at CNP. The project would provide
six staff-months of consultant services to prepare a training and professional
development program for accountants and auditors in the public sector and
state enterprises. After agreement with IDA on the program, the project would
include US$300,000 for implementing a first phase of bookkeeper and accountant
training. This component would also finance 35 months of external training
and fellowships, which would be agreed with the Association, to complement
project in-country and on-the-job training activities, and 10 months of
external training for CNP trainers. The project also provides funding for new



- 18 -
CNP training and seminar rooms and renovation of existing CNP offices, togeth-
er with classroom and office furniture and training equipment.
49.       Parapublic Reform.  The project would finance the services of
accounting, investment banking and management consulting experts for a total
of 70 staff-months of short-term assistance and 2 staff-years of resident
assistance in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Accounting services would
consist of 12 staff-months to supervise the liquidation during 1985 of the
network of Government-owned regional stores handling crop marketing, retail
trade, petroleum distribution and books and school supplies. Investment
banking and consulting services (58 staff-months) would be engaged to manage
the divestiture, bv mid-1987, of selected public enterprises in other sectors
as identified by the Government. These experts would also assist the Govern-
ment in coordinating the rehabilitation of those enterprises that will remain
in its portfolio and in preparing new regulations and policies granting a
larger autonomy to these enterprises. An action program would be submitted by
June 30, 1985. Annex V gives outline terms of reference for these services.
50.       Additional Activities.  Six staff-months of consultant services
would help the National Public Procurement Commission (CNKP) develop procure-
ment procedures for Government purchases, consistent with sound international
practice and donor requirements, and prepare guidelines for the preparation
and negotiation of international contracts. This manual would be implemented
throughout the Government by August 15, 1985 (Section 3.08(a) of draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). Additional consultants funds to be administered by
MPRN, would enable the Government to engage 26 man-months of short-term
consultants to help in the preparation and monitoring of the economic reform
program, examining the impact of proposed policy changes on household budgets,
rural production, and consumer and producer prices. In addition to six staff-
months identified for assistance to the Government in reviewing the operation
of its economic management bodies, consultants (six man-months) would also
help the Government prepare a second technical assistance project. A review of
public sector employment, coordinated with IDA/UNESCO sector work, would be
carried out during the latter part of 1985. MEF would administer US$100,000
for consultants for legal advice related to the project, inter alia including
the preparation of legislation and decrees relating to the parapublic sector
and customs and financial matters. The terms of reference of the studies and
the qualifications, experience and conditions of employment of all consultants
hired under for these activities, like all other technical assistance person-
nel under the project, will be agreed with IDA.
Project Organization and Execution
51.       The Directors of the six units being assisted, MPRN's Planning and
Statistics Directorates, CNP, and the Ministry of Economy and Finance's
Treasury, Customs and External Debt divisions would have professional
responsibility for preparing and carrying out their work programs, according
to the annual program and budget to be agreed with the Association (Section
3.06 of draft Development Credit Agreement). Annex VI gives a provisional
work program. Together they would (a) monitor project implementation to
ensure continued focus on project objectives, (b) be responsible for the
project's financial and personnel administration, (c) ensure adherence to the



- 19 -
Association's procurement and consultant guidelines, and (d) coordinate the
programming of funds for activities to be identified. A full-time national
administrator, located in the Ministrv of Planning and Natural Resources,
assisted by a full-time Guinean accountant, would handle day-to-day project
administration. The implementation and progress reporting for activities
under all project components, and the monitoring of project training activi-
ties at CNP, would be the direct responsibility of the department directors
concerned. A resident training specialist would assist the Director of CNP in
the preparation and implementation of the training program, and in the organ-
ization of overseas training. The joint Franco-Guinean consultative committee
would monitor the work program and progress of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance component, and the Government should agree to exchange views regularly
with the Association on the progress of this component (Section 3.06 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). An interministerial investment committee, with
representatives of MPRN and MEF would supervise the implementation of the
parapublic divestiture program. IEF would supervise the valuation of company
assets and the actual liquidations and manage the receipts from the sales.
52.       Detailed terms of reference for the resident specialists (Annex IV)
have been confirmed. Aside from the parapublic sector study and the legal
consultants, all technical assistance personnel would be obtained from a
single consulting firm, to be selected in accocdance with IDA procedo.res. The
firm would designate one of the four resident specialists as team leader. ILO
would prepare, and then implement, the accountant training program (para. 47).
The parapublic sector study would be awarded under separate short-listing
procedures, and the legal consultants and experts for prefeasibility studies
selected, in accordance with IDA guidelines. All personnel would have experi-
ence and qualifications acceptable to the Government and IDA. Candidates for
the resident specialist positions proposed by this firm and selected on the
basis of their curricula vitae would, as appropriate, visit Guinea for inter-
views prior to recruitment and the cost would be financed by the project. The
Association's approval of contracts for the resident specialists would be
subject to the Government having made available the required Guinean profes-
sional and support staff and related office facilities (Section 3.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The detailed preparation and supervision of the studies and overseas
training programs identified would be carried out with the assistance of the
resident specialists financed under the project. They would be subject to
prior approval by the Association based on supporting documentation which
would include a detailed justification, plan of execution and supporting
services (Section 3.05(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Skill requirements of Guinean staff have been identified.  The
individual members of the work groups in each unit being assisted will be
identified and agreed with the Association. In general formal training in
project financial and economic analysis, statistics and financial analysis
would be first carried out in short courses at CNP, then continued by oii-trie-
job training supplemented by local seminars. The training coordinatcr would
ensure that formal and on-the-job training programs maintain their
effectiveness and their high priority during project execution. and review
with the resident specialists and the Guinean unit directors the results of



- 20 -
the training activities. This advisor would be responsible for detailed
programming of training (including visits by other specialists to conduct
seminars and short courses), supervision of execution, evaluation of results
and follow-up.
55.       A Project Coordinating Committee would be established under the
chairmanship of the Secretary General of MPRN. It would include the Directors
of DGS, DGP and CNP, MEF's Secretarv General and Directors of Treasury,
Customs, and External Debt, and the six senior resident specialists. It would
meet quarterly to review progress reports. Such meetings would in particular
review in consultation with the Association at least semi-annually the policy
outputs of project activities and consider the results of each component.
keeping account of the investments made, staff newly trained, policies devel-
oped and institutional changes produced or proposed (Section 3.06 of draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Project Coordinating Committee would
report, through its chairman, on all policy questions to a Joint Policy Group,
including the Minister of State for Planning and Natural Resources, the
Minister of Economy and Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank, which
would meet semi-annually.
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The project would provide about 20 staff-years of resident special-
ists, 366 staff-months of identified short-term consultant services, 45 staff-
months of overseas training, construction of a training center, and acquisi-
tion of vehicles, equipment and furniture. Its total cost, net of taxes and
duties (from which it would be exempt) is estimated at US$10.9 million equiva-
lent. Physical and price contingencies would constitute 11 percent of total
base costs, which have been prepared in December 1984 prices. Government
would meet all local costs, US$0.4 million equivalent, in addition to Guinean
staff salaries. Salaries of the ADETEF-seconded advisors and consultants to
MEF (10.5 staff years), estimated at US$0.7 million equivalent, would be
financed by France. A UNDP grant would finance TJS$300,000 of the
prefeasibility fund. The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.5 million would cover the
remainder of the project's foreign cost component, which accounts for 96
percent of total costs. Price contingencies on resident specialists, short-
term consultants and training programs have been incorporated on the following
basis: 3.5 percent for 1984, 8 percent for 1985 and 9 percent for 1986-88.
Physical contingencies of 15 percent on all local costs and 15 percent on the
foreign costs of civil works and equipment have been included.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       The selection of consulting firms to supply the technical assistance
personnel would be the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Committee.
All terms of reference, qualifications and contracts would be subject to prior
approval by the Association. Construction of the CNP training center
(US$344,000) would be subject to international competitive bidding, following
TDA guidelines. Procurement of vehicles, furniture and equipment would follow
limited international tendering (US$670,000). Procurement of office supplies
(US$120,000) would follow local procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of



- 21 -
the four micro-computers (US$80,000) would be on the basis of a single respon-
sibility contract for equipment, software and training.
58.       The proposed Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of total
direct foreign exchange costs of the consulting services, training programs
and vehicles, furniture, computers and equipment, and 100 percent of foreign
costs or 80 percent of total costs for civil works. The Government would
finance the related local costs, (estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent),
making explicit provision in its annual budgets for funds sufficient to
support the project's Guinean staff and associated other project costs (Sec-
tion 3.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement). After refinancing the two
PPF advances totalling US$400,000, US$570,000 of the proposed Credit would
remain unallocated. The disbursement projections correspond to the project
implementation timetable, which takes into account the advanced status of
project start-up activities (selection of consultants, preparation of archi-
tectural plans), the project timetable, and generally favorable project
performance and disbursement experience in Guinea.
Accounts and Auditing
59.       MPRN would establish and maintain consolidated project accounts for
all expenditures under the proposed proJect. Prior to project effectiveness,
the project local currency account would be established and an initial contri-
bution in local currency equivalent to US$60,000 made into it. A foreign
currency Special Account of US$30,000 for the purchase of vehicle spare parts
and other items would als' be established prior to project effectiveness and
replenished by IDA upon presentation of supporting documentation (Sections
2.02 and 3.01 and Schedule 4 of draft Development Credit Agreement). These
accounts and supporting records would be audited annually by auditors accept-
able to IDA and audited reports would be submitted promptly to the Association
(Section 4.01(c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
60.       The main benefits of the proposed project would be the training and
development of staff expertise in project preparation and analysis and finan-
cial administration, the introduction of systematic procedures for investment
choice, procurement and budgetary control, improved management and monitoring
of Guinea's external debt, and improved national accounts estimates and the
beginnings of a statistical basis for sectoral analysis. The organization of
training activities common both to core and technical ministries should
facilitate the introduction and acceptance of these procedures through the
Government. Institution of formal procedures for procurement and contract
negotiation, and strengthening of financial controls, should belp initiate a
better control of public expenditure. The project remains, however, only a
first step in a series of measures that will be needed to strengthen perma-
nently the Guinean institutions responsible for economic management.
61.       Measurable outputs.  The first set of locally-produced national
accounts estimates and a 1986/88 Investment Program would be produced by June
30, 1986, and regularly thereafter according to an annual work program to be



- 22 -
discussed and agreed with the Association (paras. 43, 45). The preparation of
these planning documents would also include important instruments for economic
management: a formal project evaluation manual introduced throughout the
Government (para. 43), standardized procurement procedures (para. 50), and
regular quarterly reporting of external debt (para. 47). The PPF advance has
already financed a study of urban household budgets and will finance an audit
of Guinea's external debt. Over the next year, consultants under the project
will help the Government develop and then analyze the impact of the proposed
economic reform program, including urban household surveys, farm budgets, and
a review of the investment program. The large-scale parapublic sector dives-
titure program would be prepared and subsequently implemented (para. 49). A
training and staff development program for accountants would be prepared by
September 30, 1985 (para. 48).  The project would also help the Covernment
review the operation of the newly reorganized economic managemenc bodies,
which would be discussed with IDA (para. 39), and prepare a possible second
phase technical assistance operation, consistent with longer-term objectives
and needs. With the assistance of the project. MPRN would jointly review with
the technical ministries sectoral strategies and investment programs now under
preparation in power, water, transport, mining and industry, and discuss these
strategies with the Association as a basis for sectoral donor meetings in 1985
and early 1986. In the third year of the project, the Government would use
the macroeconomic and sectoral outlines and the sectoral investment plans to
update the three-year investment program.
62.       Four principal risks are associated with achieving project objec-
tives. The main risk is that policy and program recommendations arising from
the project would not be fully reviewed and acted upon. The Government has
agreed that it will regularly account for and consult with IDA concerning the
results of all project activities and recommendations pertaining to policy and
procedural reform, and institutional changes (para. 55). A second risk is
that of delays or difficulties in providing technical assistance personnel,
with a consequent rise in IDA supervision of project administration. This
risk is mitigated by the use of a single consulting firm for recruitment and
administration (para. 51) of most of the staff, and the early start for
recruitment procedures, which provides additional incentive to resolve any
technical assistance problems that arise. In general the Association's
experience is that the Guinean Government moves quickly to resolve project
administration problems, and has in the past enjoyed good relations with its
technical assistance personnel. A third risk surrounds the project's training
and staff development objectives. While the technical assistance input is
heavy, it is not disproportionate with the major tasks to be achieved;
nevertheless, the trainizg of Guinean staff and the establishment of proce-
dures and rules that contribute to a sound working environment is the proj-
ect's ultimate objective. Senior Guinean personnel before Board presentation
have been designated and the preparation of a long-run training program taking
into account the experience of project implementation would contribute to
meeting this goal. The Government has also agreed not to move personnel
trained under the project to other unrelated posts in the Administration
(Section 3.11 of draft Development Credit Agreement). A fourth risk is that
the career and salary structure in the Guinean civil service (para. 29) may
tend to outweigh the training, work program and improved working conditions
which the project would introduce into core ministries. This is a problem not



- 23 -
modification under a slingle project, but the Association continues to discuss
the matter with the Government, in the context of this and other operations.
In light of these risks, and the project's ambitious work program, frequent
and fairly intensive supervision by IDA staff will be needed.
PART V - LEGAL I11STRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being circu-
lated to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Creation of and initial deposits into the local currency revolving fund
and creation of the project Special Account are conditions of effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recovmend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
February 20, 1985
Attachments



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
TABRLEL  35                                       FACE  ot 5
CUINU                  - BOCIAL INDtCATORS DATA SCNS
GUINZA                               RECFENCE cIoun (ICCNTED AhrASh) a
NOST                     (MOST BCENT  tINATETC) /b
RECENT      LOW INCONC AFRICA        NIDOLE I rHIE
1i6a!    iit4    ESTIWATEL          som  or  uARA        AFRIcA s. or sALN
AEA (ToDAND  q. W)
TOTAL                                245.9     245.9       243.9
AGRICULTURAL                         44.0       45.7        45.7
any Mt CAITA cinS$                      a0.0      120.0      310.0             249.1                 1112.9
BlURT conmwnTau S  CUITA
(KtLOGRAKS OF OIL EQUIVALENTS        35.0       58.0        55.0             62.5                  529.0
POMATIo AMD VITAL STATUTIC8
POPULATION.HID-YTAR (TOUSAIOS)     3630.0    4490.0       3704.0 1*                    
URBN POPULATION (2 Of TOTAL)          9.9       13.9       20.3              19.2                   29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                            8.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              28.0
POPULATION NONENTWU                                        1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 34.                        15.7       18.3        22.7             32.5                   53.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LND              17.3       98.2      122.0             119.2                  111.5
POPULATIOX ACE STRUCTU  (I)
0-14 YRS                          42.0       62.5        44.0             45.6                   45.4
15-64 TRS                          33.1       34.7       53.0              51.5                   31.7
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6        2.8         2.9              2.9                    2.9
POPULATION CRWrTK IRATE (2)
TOTAL                               1.1        1.3         2.0 /c           2.3                    2.8
URSA                                7.0        4.9         5.1              6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (ER TNOUS)          48.3       49.3       49.1              45.6                   47.0
CRUDC DEATH RATE (PER 7HOU5)         34.9       31.6       27.0              17.7                   15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTIOII RATE              3.2        3.2        3.1               3.2                    3.2
FANI LY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS ( 0or MARRIAD WUEN)            ..         ..
mmD MI WAtTtOI
INDEX OF F70D PWD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        97.0      101.0       89.0              85.8                   91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAIZS (I OP REQUIRFJEINTS)         74.0       78.0       75.0              86.6                   98.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           37.0       38.0       36.0              49.9           -       3.7
OF WHICH ANINL AND PULSE          7.0        6.0        7.0 Id           18.3                   17.0
CNILD (AGES 1-4) DCATH RATE          65.0       38.0       50.0              23.5                   16.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT 31RT1 (TYES)         32.3       34.4       37.5              48.4                   51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TIIUS)       222.0      208.0      190.0             117.5                  1O2.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                ..         ..        10.0 I.          21.6                   35.6
URAN                                 ..         ..       44.07;            61.5                   54.1
RURAL                                ..         ..        2.7              14.2                   27.3
ACCESS TO EZRETA DISPOSAL
CZ Or POPULASTION)
TOTAL                                ..       13.3          ..             32.0
URBAN                                ..       70.0         ..              69.2
RURAL                                ..         .0          ..             24.                      -
POPULATION PER PIYSICIAN          33770.0   35460.0    17110.0 (d         27477.8                1194S.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            040.0    za'l.o      2570.0 71         3396.2                 2246.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             1410.0     670.0      660.0 /f         1069.0                  986.9
UtJAN                             260.0      Z40.0      0oo.o 7r          395.2                  368.7
RURL                             2760.0      960.0       760.0 7F        3094.0                 401Z.1
ADNISSIONS PER ilIOSPITAL BFD          ..       16.0
ariU
AVERAGE SUE OF HOUSEOLD
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
AVERSE NO. OF PFRSO S/RU3.
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URUAN                                ..         ..         .                 .
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCZSS TO ELECT. (; OF DsELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..          .0 .
UAN                                  ..         ..
RUXilL                               ..         ..



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
T A B L E  34                                    PACC 2  0 f 5
UINEA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
GUINEA                              REFERzeCE CaOUPS (WEICHTED AVERACES) It
HOST                (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT        LOW INCOME AMRICA        MIDoLTNCoCN
1960!!-   L9 0d-b   CSTIIIASES       SOUTH oF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF sHARA
SOUCATIOR
ADJUSTED ENROLLENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    30.0       33.0        33.0             69.2                   91.0
KALE                     44.0      45.0        44.0             76.8                    90.5
FEMALE                   16.0      21.0        22.0             57.6                    73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    2.0       13.0        16.0             13.1                   17.4
KALE                      3.0      21.0        23.0             17.6                    23.7
IMALE                      ..       5.0         9.0              6.3                    14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)          2t.7        3.2         2.7              7.2                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDMA?                             b6.0       44.0        36.0             46.1                   38.6
SECONDARY                          26.0       23.0        24.0 /a          25.9                   24.3
ADULT LITERACT RATE (Z)               7.0        9.0        20.0 /b          44.3                   35.6
WCUWTIOm
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           L.4        2.2         ..               3.6                   20.7
RADIO RECEZIVRS/THOUSAND POP         10.2       20.3       2Z.2              41.9                  0OO.8
TV RECE.IVERSTHOUSAND POP              ..         ..         1.1              2.0                   18.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENRAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             0.2        1.1         3.7 /b           5.4                   17.2
CINMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..         ..         ..               1.4                    0.3
LAME FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1910.0    2140.0       2494.0
Fr0ALE (PERCENT)                   40.4       40.3        40.5             36.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0       85.0        82.0             77.4                   57.1
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                  6.0        8.0        11.0              9.8                   17.4
PARTICIPATLON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              49.6       47.7        43.7             41.0                   36.3
HALE                               59.4       57.4        53.6             52.1                   47.6
FEJALE                             39.9       38.1        34.4             30.2                   25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             C.9        1.0         1.1              1.2                    1.4
INCNZ DISTRISUTON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
1ICtEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HICHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWES? 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
mRTm UC  n
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .                                   168.3                  525.3
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..              90.8                  249.0
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBA                                  .         ..        70.0 1s         107.7                  477.4
RURAL                                 .                                    65.0                  186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URAN                                 ..         ..         ..              34.7
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..              65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
MOT APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mean. Coverage of coontries among the
indicetore depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unlear otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for KMoet Recent Estisee between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  Recent Governmnt estimates from Administrative Cenaus Indicate a resident population (excluding non-Guineane) of
4.53 dllion in 1977 nd population growth rate of 2.7 p.a.;  Id 1977; /e 1978. if 1976; /j 1965; th 1979.
JUNE. 1984



- 26 -                                                                                            ANNEX I
Page3 of 5
UtrIttOlt op paCteL lglC*ttPt
allteal. le    raarcr  g        p dale1  the .seera. atpapeletlat aptsre   artpta -e    t                        -rtar  Itetater "ad abt   eySe    aelea   Ithe  eetsl,4   te 
ilph,dt    .. iwea  iede,ea1. tenet   ser             -ra  raera   stee   te,. telec                4eleI  .   the actatotra dat    di  eeatee,eae..1   tap 
tierlal  c  ela  lg eerlreft'et  ldtatct  -a  telee.    ire   trtesefr  eel. seti  I.  -suerte   eta ealca ele                       tl-tra       er   ert   t             rer    e
test~ ~ ~ ~~~~-                                  .0.. ttaaV ,~  ~!!!,c!it   eclet  Ile  ette  tpatra
""Tc1tt fetl eleac   aee  eelelets  I..t  reaeel'lac   aarre    tat,             lerariat.ealtla            . rat      Nee-a  eI-taeel at a      -eta .a leapt,
'cW e    e l det.                                                                                     Peseta   5  trl4   eaI-IIptaleElce    e  eeela                                  rae We
AgIcltr      i  tele   etttc-lee   ateI-i             . ate    a Iat-it   arWI ttel.tlaitsIstaa  tetet   altt   art,paera   hrs 
4fTii    ypte.asetsdt,taarce ateliPetetttt                                                             attaetlrat
melee peat tell tees,                                                                    l1paev.....t..el'lea pay eheslle I. 4  -... Ca -e,.tIe      aa    Pepaitaa  Iteel
"UrEMS"41,21112                                                                                                       twt ...... .                                       4..arte,  a  re-l IlC  adb  tei  rtprerr at a  tapea   il
II.I      M. .. il lfl -tar per. feet   e   ms    ,feee    fe                    rc-a,eetbl   arete   a   rataptrtaE   aeate  taia    e
edieteii  ~e  tat   c-rt-  mhad   e PeIl it  Clia    ast-t hetet.rehat Itatlte sttar,  Papllla  ae e-I                                tttheeee  ereessee .1 ataNt
IIt, It    a  tOt1 lea,h  a   eae                                                                                                  eIteree, heelt4t    pe.aallea    plb.t.lt  eastalte
_ M  ... W  W-.  -.-I                  ..a b.4....  -W., ~ ~~~~                    ...  ar --.        la.           .-eral  hep    Wt .,Peer  tarlal.m    hat   e
tp vlitealettcle   -alaealateeceereeea    e .ttedrtraar    a    aetel    tle                                                                                       r      hafa   heb~              aea
7fl~rra1c ml gete,   aerese.   teralse  aedhel. cater                                   taatce.  ar. M       Mlere   aI,Ivttptrt-eata                         raa         sa
as  leetaral atartectl  I i  hI aaeas ataet  eat  stat   car'tre  a.  ttt.rtesde  aited  real a7.                     trM  laretttlhs
tel,   eltit   ate                             ~tetIaatar*~tleiteta   t  l  teheg-
tieahc~ittlJtalJjbr*te ette  '1  Plt
c-l;ie~eeea.e-e.  ra   aelee-etttclil                                                                       ce   hirtt  ta,   ahede                     eeeltaece   ree                  etae 
aele   eeerfa.fleCe   eee=ac        ... .si. l.r.......l  eeetteetee   pe.et
!mhpjkL!fliPhtL                                                                    taeregf~~~~~~~~~~~ eafe .. .I c-Iad se e   a-ete at.....aerg   ta
eeaI           eVJt.            aecerreele    ree.tIaaetefetetaerc.talettrtra.te-lrtefar   cae-esa
as  acesa   elcee  acrell  -    eelct  rdateea,rere   eae,leetlec.e...e..rm.e.er.are   t
las raeaec,e  lee ~~~,seteeee.eear~~etas  ee eerIe   a-cc- c-eieeed tear,.,1.
earl  ata'itg  ttr   ereralea  e  bIrh  tcratt-e   eth   aceec   re  hecaaettreredxAreeattt  tertleet -te. t.  rhe.  '.  etal.
les,ea   aee    e   ecaeaa   ttlrifa    cc    ~              aeaeaceciiaaltcaer   era tts   leV =ea   arele
caer.   et  eaasetra  er lrelltee  ateala-  tee   thee  lnt,at etatece-aa,   el eeaite Ptleltreaee                                -Ia.%
seetelee  Ca.  te  Ic earetil,,eceellef c., eecesa  tact tat peet   sat                                           C.
ritttl   artctcte   1e   ccatee  i  teeatal pedc-t a   Iee   *eaer7ni
rathtetteteltcceattteecteeltttalra.te  Ie re.Iec-tat flpeese               Ml......e.......Ie
Crap leearj~pflejj~  e.ceeeeaitcec  sea-   si aae-epart It.  tat eitle       ~                                     . Creat Ial, tale..ete.l.esl
ese    a          a   heedeaeaI-Tet,atcat-reti   a-ttaee. lre-PeI   le  e.ceta.ln    srectae    traata
raaaeeeatearatesatetseetc-eetastee                                     rtarac--eacrreatecrteatcteeettlaaleat
eeet.tc             eetejtec=Ic  tala                      c    ec.e,l..aac                                       ee   -       letdttdelrt    e5t    t*tac                         drtm    a



- 27 -
NWU1
t_4 of 5
UDUI  noF D
inagc DOW=
GM   IMML  RUtlr 1  1963                              humal rate of   sth (Z. artat ptrtum)
155 iOn         2     1973-77    197741      197341        196     196145
Prejected
QW at 1mae Prim.            1756        IOD       4.59      -0.22        2.16       0.16        2.0O
Cm     It t           _e     216         12      -6.55        7.09       0.04       10.00       7.00
0mm *thai S                  179         10      -3.44       0.01       -1.70      -6.25           -
zmit Accst WJ=               -37         -2      21.25     -39.77       -4.92      -7.31          -
lqot of Qiaa. ?Ws            503         29      30.41       2.35       15.53       2.46        1.0
bpor  of CGods. 5           -360       -22      -20.03       3.46      I."4        2.5
OWMn. LaO FM= AN nM=r4M
Value Ai                     L bo r                      VA per blor
MSb M*          Iloors                         I            Ms            2
AgrMIwitu           710         42.38          2022            82.0           351         51.85
bldMty   lfld       383         22.86           27             10.99         143         196.38
s.wJ                582         34.75           173             7.02         3145        506.86
Tocal/here         1675        100.00          2466            IOD.0          677        IO.C0
.-aHIr  FRnC
cawral Qinueft
B1Uin 9yli                                     O1f M(
iqo       1981      1952       1953     1960      1981     1982      1983
Curim   bmlpUU           11.09      12.32     15.85      11.15    34.54     34.95    42.32    25.?5
Onwt qaulditbre           7.74       7.21      9.42       8.59    24.11     20.45    25.23    19.45
oarit S9r3n               3.35       5.11      6.43       2.56    10.43    14.50    17.16       5.110
CpItsa mewn4itu/e    3.-7            5.96      5.0       4.12     11.74    16.91    13.35       9.32
Tteml                     0 0.97     1.80      0.83      0.83      3.01      5.12     2.21      1.86
siLit  SyU                                       f of MP
19R0      1961       1982      1963     190       1981      19S2     1963
n-mt Roca                 10.44     11.52     15.35      10.23    32.52    32.68       0.98   23.17
an-rat BPaauhdiu          7.19       7.04      9.09       7.80    22.39    19.97    24.27      17.67
Current sutplz a          3.25       4.48      6.26       2.43    W.12      12.71    16.71      5.51
Capital   dituze -        3.70       5.73      4.36       2.93    11.52     16.25     11.58     6.65
atneul Aavtmw             0.97       1.60      0.83       0.83     3.01      5.12     2.21      3.85
eit) -
K. arr n  PRIM
De. 19D0          DIc. 1981           Dec. 1912         Doc. 1963
?tey Mu qa1-Nwy                    12.50              17.19              16.16             17.55
BDuk Credit to PAlbt Sector        18.50              18.28              15.59             17.78
*rk Credit to Prvste Secr           1.21               I.q2               0.59              0.63
1960             1981                 1982             1983
lb q ad quei.dav - 2 of G          77.4             49.69               39.86            40.Z8
G 1aua Price Teld  (1918-100)-    91.9             100.0               14.4             116.4
uAal Z Oins ir
.* Credit to PkhlI Sector       114.90            -6.65              -10.00            14.34
7w  Credit to Ptivte Sector      60.30           -16.06 42.16                           6.21



-28 -                                                                  !asrOf S
IIUUMLIC or  aStIh
TIA CPAIN"   AIIa  CAPTAL IF1.1
SALAMIC3 OF PAI TS 1'
1979   1te0    1901    1912    1963  A6i
(VL0 I IIIILLI)           trot.
Reports of Coode                           366      96     93      446      503    527
Imprts of acd.                            -335    -395    -645    -386    -360    421
Trade  mlanew                               31      101      41       64      123      9o
Services cnd Priveae Transatfe (net)   -119    -127    -151    -153    -165   -171
Intereet Paymnts                       -5      -51      -52     -54      -6    -52
Investnnt tncoe                         -36     -40      -56      -56     -70    -49
Other earvices (net)                    -49     -26      -1      -36      -'0    -40
Workerse lUtltancee                         -7       -a      -9       -9       -9    -10
Officiel Transfors (net)                     9       17       36      26       16      I9
Belence on Current Acenunt                  fl      -9         9    -63       -32    j
Direct reveipn Tnveecenet                   17       22      30       26       31      3
Hat tLT Rewins                              16      -14        6     -17       59     29
ODabursemnt. Public 3orrouing           126      150     146      Los      135    LIt
Amorteiatton. Pubtle Borrowing          -79    -132    -121    -111       -52   -127
Subtotal. Public SoOrwtOni               47      -2       27       -3     43      a
Pritvets  setor (net)                   -29     -32      -23      -14       16    -20
Other Capital (lnat                         -I        I      11       31       -)    -12
Other Ictese n.j  -                         29      -45     -46       -5      -99      -
Inerease in Reservea                      -29      -34      -72      -11     .42      -9
Cross Resrents   end vear)                  65      101      92      133      129    III
Hot tWservem (and year) 9/                -20O    -240    -209    -262    -335    311
Fuels and Reited Macarisls
Imports                                  56      64       97       66      63      67
of which:  Petroleum                     56      6       97       36       61     *7
Exports                                      0        0       0        0        0      0
RATES OP VICI(AMGIAO
1975    1976    1977   1976   1079   1960    1961   3962   1953  13"A -
SultVIIS   20.33   21.33   21.1  19.72  19.11  I6.97  20.91  22.16  23.17  24.29
MERCNODISE ElUTPOS (Avse:e  19304)             EXTUIEAL DOST. December 31. 19?3
(in renscant 1962 price.)
Vtl nln 2                                       Us5  sln
Reunite              134.        70.1           Public and Private
Debt Cuauanteed
Aluinn               127.0       24.6           Includinti Undisbureed       1538. 4
Diasnnds               6.6         1.4          Outstandins L Dimbursed   1215.5
Agricultural
Coumodltten          9.2        1.9
Total                477.2       3(.a           DEBT 5nv91CR RATIOS FOR 1933
(BhIDIIDA LENDINC fSeptember 10. 1963)          Schtduled Service Payments
USS nin                Public and Private Debt
Guaraneted               71.2
I?RD      IDA                Private Debt lion
Guaranteed                3.0
Ohutetanding I
DOtbursad           471         5.            Total Debt Outstading 
Dtabureed                  2  2
Ilndlbursod           0.0       63.0
Outstandins
including
urdisbursed         *7.1      133.5           Actual Service Payments
Public aend Private
Debt Guaranteed             13.4
Private Debt te Guaranteed O.P
Tocal Pabt uutstanding &
Disbursed                14.2
1t  Prelaimnary etimates
1t Defined sa CDI plus Current Account SLence
31  Local adeinistrmtion not included
.i  Including capiesi trensfera to. and investwnt ano beball of, ecete
enterprisea
S/  Disbursemnts lees mcheduled  mortizeton plux Increase in arrears
6/  G? IPmplicit deflator
7/  Totals my not add due to roundins
6/  Includes  DSD  allocation, *rrors and memetotn  and cbangee in arrears a-
long-ter debt mervtce
9t DiscrepancIes du to dil avant exchange raets
101 Period gsmetrie average
February 1. 1915



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORMD BANK OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statmennt of Bank Loans and TDA Credits (as of September 30. 1984) *
Amount (less cancellations)
(USS Million)
Credit
Number        Year    Borrower      Purpose                               Bank       IDA 1/  Undisbursed I/
Tro loans and three Credits have been fully disbursed                    73.50      28.99
870-GUI       1979    Guinea        First Water Supply and Sanitation               12.50         2.75
952-GUI       1980    Guinea        Rice Development                                10.40         4.08
953-GUI       1980    Guinea        Second Highway                                  13.00         0.41
1063-GUI      1981    Guinea        Livestock Development                            2.11         0.17
1085-CUI      1981    Guinea        Power                                           28.50         3.87
1234-CUI      1982    Guinea        Industrial Rehabilitation                       19.00        14.10
and Promotion
1341-GUI      1983    Guinea        Second Education                                11.00         9.50
1382-GUI      1983    Guinea        Conakry Port                                    13.00         7.55
1438-CUT      1984    Guinea        Petroleum Exploration Promotion                  8.00         7.62
1457-GUI 2/   1984    Guinea        Third Highway                                   28.00        28.00
1466-GU  2/  1984    Guinea         Conakry Urban Development              -        10.70        10.70
Total                                             73.50     185.20        88.75
of which has been repaid                        30.09       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/                 43.41     185.20
Total undisbursed                                  0.0       88.75        88.75
1/ Beginning with Credit 1063-GUI, Credits have been dominated in Special Drawing Rights.  The dollar
amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalent at the time of credit negotiations for the
IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts
(1 SDR - USS.999005).
2/  Not yet effective.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Pago 2 of 2
B.  Statement of lIC Invemtments (as of October 31. 1984)
Fiscal Year       Obigor                                 Type of Business        Loan     Equity           Total
1983          Soci#td Mixte, Aredor Cuinde, S.A.   Diaond Mining              13.9
1963          Aredor Holdings                         Diamond Mining                      1.4          (15.3
Total Croes Commitments                                        13.9         1.4           15.3
Lose Cancellationa, Terminstions,
Repayments and Sales
Total Comuitemnts now held by IFC                              13.9         1.4           15.3
Undisburced B lance                                             9.0        0.0             0.0



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project: one year
Project prepared by: Government, consultants and IDA staff
Date of first IDA mission to consider project:  November 1981
Project appraisal: December 1982
Post-appraisal missions: February, May and October 1984
Negotiations completed: January 1985
Planned date of effectiveness: May 15, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Two PPF advances totalling US$400,000 financed consultants and training
for project preparation, organizational studies of MPRN and MEF, legal
advice for implementing the reorganization, architectural designs and
initial start-up activities (preparation of detailed training program,
household survey and audit of external debt). Careful and frequent
supervision by IDA staff is envisaged, in view of the project's ambitious
schedule and work program.
Section III: Special Conditions
Prior to effectiveness, the Government would establish the local currency
revolving fund account and make an initial contribution equivalent to
US$60,000. and establish the project Special Account (para. 52).
Prior to disbursement on the Ministry of Economy and Finance component, the
Government would sign the first protocol defining the twinning arrangement
between the Guinean and French Ministries of Economy and FInance (para. 46).
The Government would also:
(a) discuss with the Association the operation of its planning institu-
tions, and prepare by February 15, 1987 an institutional development
and training program for economic management (para. 39);
(b) by June 30, 1986, and thereafter according to an annual work program
to be agreed with the Association by March 31, 1986, produce a
rolling three-year investment program covering the 1986/88 perlod
(para. 43);
(c) by June 30, 1986, and thereafter according to an annual work program
to be agreed with the Association by March 31, 1986. produce a first
set of national accounts estimates (para. 45);



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(d) prepare a project evaluation manual by December 31, 1985 and intro-
duce it throughout the Government according to a timetable to be
agreed with IDA prior to March 31, 1986 (para. 43);
(e) introduce standardized procurement procedures by August 15, 1985
(para. 50);
(f)  introduce regular quarterly reporting of external debt by
March 31, 1986 (para. 47);
(g) prepare an action program for parapublic sector reform and submit it
to the Association by June 30, 1986 (para. 49 and Annex V); and
(h) agree not to move personnel trained under the project to other
unrelated posts in the administration (para. 62).



- 33 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 10
GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Terms of Reference for Resident Technical Advisors to MPRN and CNP
1.        The Government of Guinea has requested the International Development
Association (IDA) to finance a technical assistance project for economic
management, aimed at supporting efforts by the Ministry of Planning and
Natural Resources and Statistics (MPRN), the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(HEF) and the National Commission for Public Procurement (CNMP) to improve
economic management. Four full-time technical advisors will be provided to
the MPRN and CNP. Two experts will work under separate terms of reference at
the Ministry of Economy and Finance. They will work with designated Guinea
personnel to carry out a work program agreed with IDA. The Government of
Guinea has requested technical proposals from qualified consulting firms
interested in providing these services. Selection will be carried out in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank
and its Borrowers, and evaluated according to the criteria indicated below in
para. 26.
OBJECTIVES
2.        The development objective of this project would be to improve the
Government's economic management through a three-year, first phase program of
technical assistance and staff training. The project would focus on macroeco-
nomic analysis and forecasting, investment choice and procurement, management
of external debt and the preparation of basic economic data. The project
provides for 18 staff-years of resident advisors, 326 staff-months of short-
term consultant services, and 45 staff-months of overseas training. The
project would assist: (a) the Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources and
Statistics (MPRN) improve macroeconomic, project and sectoral planning and
prepare regular national accounts estimates; (b) the National Public
Procurement Commission (CNMP) improve government procurement; and (c) the
Ministry of Finance's Extcrnal Debt Division (DDE) prepare more timely and
comprehensive debt statistics and improve the management of the external debt.
The National Productivity Centre (CNP) would prepare and implement, in
conjunction with the three agencies' work programs and on-the-job coaching by
the consultant personnel, a program of staff training for about 450 staff in
17 training courses of two- to four-week duration. In addition to financing
the construction of a training center and the acquisition of necessary
vehicles, equipment, furniture and teaching materials, the project would
finance short-term consultants to assist the Government in the preparation and
monitoring of an economic reform program, an action plan for the parapublic
sector. 1/
1/   Consultants would assist the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as needed,
to prepare legislation related to the project's outputs. ILO would
execute a first-phase accountant and auditor training program at CNP.
These services are not included in this request for proposals.



- 34 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 9
3.        In general, the objective of the work program and the consultant
services is to ensure the acquisition of economic and policy analysis skills
by the Guinean personnel who will work with the resident specialists and the
short-term consultants in preparing the outputs described below. All four
resident specialists will be responsible for training their Guinean coun-
terparts, in part through on-the-job training and in part through participa-
tion in suitable courses organized in Guinea and abroad.
WORK PROGRAM AND STAFFING
Principal Project Planning Advisor
4.        Reporting to the Director of Planning and Natural Resources in MPRN,
for a period of three years the advisor would assist MPRN to establish an
effective organization and procedures for the preparation of a three-year
rolling public investment program.
5.        The main task and principal output will be to assist appropriate
counterparts (which will be named by the Government prior to the start of the
expert's services) to prepare a public investment program for the period
1986-88 suitable for presentation to a donor conference in early 1986 (i.e. to
contain those public investments/projects to be started in 1986 and 1987) and
thereafter to establish effective procedures for monitoring the implementation
of the program and its updating, to produce by April 1987 the revised 1987-89
public investment program and to ensure continuity in this process thereafter.
6.        As secondary outputs in the preparation of these plans the expert
will:
(a) direct and animate a work group in the Directorate of Planning and
Natural Resources responsible for preparing an operational manual
for public investments (which includes investments directly
undertaken by the State or by public enterprises or joint ventures
in which the Government is the majority shareholder). The
procedures will cover the identification, preparation, appraisal and
choice of investmeut projects. These evaluation criteria will
specifically include consideration of recurrent cost and manpower
implications of public investment, as well as quantification and
comparison of economic and financial costs and benefits. 2/   It is
2/   For the method of economic and financial analysis, the procedures to be
applied are those used by the World Bank in its project appraisals. In
collaboration with CNP's principal training advisor, seminars will be
organized for MPRN and technical ministry staff. The manual should in
particular indicate the procedures to be used by technical ministries
responsible for identification and preparation of projects, and the time
typically to be allowed for each phase in the project cycle. It will
also describe the procedures to be followed for the final presentation of
projects to decision-making bodies and the time limits to be observed
during the approval process.



- 35 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 9
envisaged that existing project evaluation manuals from other
African countries will be adapted, but such adaptation must take
into account the specific Guinean institutions charged with the
planning process, and the organizational relationships between them,
administrative measures desirable to simplify and speed up the
process, while maintaining appropriate professional quality, and
relationships to decision-making bodies. The Government wishes to
prepare this manual and, following discussion with IDA, implement
these procedures throughout the Government by March 31, 1986.
(b) to supervise the preparation, by a procurement specialist advising
MEF's National Commission for Public Procurement (CNMP), of a manual
for public procurement. This task will have two phases: an inven-
tory of the procedures now in use in Guinea, by the Ministries and
other public bodies, state enterprises and particularly the Ministry
of Trade (as successor to IMPORTEX) for contracting the supply of
goods and services; and an analysis of the means and reforms to be
undertaken to improve the existing system, with a view to
introducing increased economic efficiencv and a simpler set of
procedures. The different types of procurement - direct purchase,
limited bidding, national tendering and international competitive
bidding - will be established in detail for both goods and services.
These rules shall be applicable to the -entire public sector. This
procurement manual will be introduced throughout the Government by
August 15, 1985.
(c) to advise the Director of Planning and Natural Resources on the
choice of short-term consultants to be engaged for: economic and
financial studies; examination of organizational and procedural
questions; management analysis and procedures; design of forms,
questionnaires and other procedural items related to project
preparation, and other specific tasks identified by MPRN consistent
with the objectives of the project.
7.        The PPPA shall work closely with a working group consisting of the
four Planning Directorate's division chiefs charged with sectoral planning
(viz. human resources; energy, mines and industry; 3/ rural sector; and
infrastructure and public works). The PPPA shall assist the divisions in
reviewing the interim sectoral investment programs that are expected to be
prepared during 1985 for power, water, and transport, to ensure their consis-
tency with sound project planning and analysis techniques.
3/   Italy will finance an economist-advisor to the sectoral division
responsible for industry, mining and energy, to assist in project
analysis. The Italian advisor will take main responsibility in these
sectors, and the Director of Planning will ensure that the Directorate's
overall project and sector reviews benefit from the full results of the
Italian specialist's work.



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 9
8.        Qualifications.  The principal technical advisor shall have a
high-level economic and technical training (economist or economist/MBA) with a
solid experience in project analysis and investment programming, preferably in
sub-Saharan Africa. Familiar with the techniques of project analysis and
procurement procedures, and experienced in their application, the candidate
should have demonstrated competence in investment choices, and be fluent in
French.
Senior Macroeconomist in MPRN's Planning Directorate
9.        Attached to the Chief of MPRN's General Planning Division, the
Senior Macroeconomist will coordinate a working group in the division which
will be responsible for:
(a) in a first phase, January-September 1985, preparing a diagnostic
evaluation of the policy analysis and the programming of invest-
ments, of the successes and failures experienced in the recent past
in Guinea's economic development;
(b) in a second phase, October 1985 - June 1986, identifying the con-
straints that until now have hindered the development of Guinea's
economic potential, as well as the resources that would need to be
mobilized to eliminate these obstacles;
(c)  in a third phase, August 1986 - June 1987, outlining a general
development strategy and providing an appropriate macro-economic
framework. This work should be undertaken in collaboration with MEF
and the technical ministries as appropriate.
The working group will be in charge in particular of the macroeconomic and
policy analysis of the sectoral strategies and programs that will be prepared
by the techcical ministries with IDA assistance in the power, transport, water
supply education and agricultural sectors, as well as any other analysis in
mining, energy and industry undertaken with the assista,.ce of the World Bank
or other development agencies. Taking into account the diagnostic studies
prepared under phases (a) and (b), and in collaboration with the PPPA and the
sectoral divisions in the Planning Directorate, the working group shall
prepare the macroeconomic outline for the 1986/88 Inves-nent Program. As
appropriate, it will provide macroeconomic input and cotments to the technical
ministries preparing interim sectoral programs for presentation by the Govern-
ment to donor agencies.
10.       The preparatory work for the 1986/88 Investment Plan will include
sectoral analyses and a macroeconomic analysis that will provide the basis for
sectoral projections and macroeconomic scenarios in which the investment
program will be elaborated and justified.
11.       Qualifications.  The candidate should be an economist of high
standing, with considerable experience of planning problems in developing
countries in sub-Saharan Africa, though on-the-job experience advising Minis-
tries of Planning and Natural Resources. Fluent in French, the candidate
should be thoroughly grounded in the techniques of macroeconomic analysis,



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 9
sectoral planning and policy analysis, with demonstrated skill in coping with
data limitations.
Principal Statistician for MPRN's Directorate of Statistics
12.       Reporting to the Director of Statistics, the Principal Statistical
Advisor will coordinate the work of the Directorate. In their current presen-
tation, the national accounts suffer from imperfections in their methodology
but also, and perhaps more significantly, in the insufficiency and poor
quality or indeed non-existence of reliable statistical data. Within its
overall objective to remedy this situation and provide: data for a reliable
macroeconomic framework for planning decisions, the Directorate of Statistics
will:
(a) during 1985, analyze the methods now used for elaborating national
accounts, and propose modifications to them, particularly to make
them more easily usable by planners, and to facilitate international
comparisons;
(b) in particular, analyze the national accounting plan, its potential
for nectoral adaptation and its facility for aggregation at a
macroeconomic level, and prepare recommendations for the adaptation
of the National Accounting Plan appropriate for all sectors.
13.       Once the methodology and method of analysis have been defined, a
small unit in the Directorate responsible for preparing the national accounts
will define priorities and an action plan for improving: production statis-
tics (agricultural surveys, 4/ industrial census data, 5/ survey of servic-
es, trade and the informal sector); administrative statistics, (public fi-
nance, banking and balance of payments data 6/ ); household revenue and
consumption surveys; 7/ and price series. This work will cover the various
aspects of data collection and treatment, with a focus on simple methods to
obtain minimal priority data for planning and policy analysis. The Director-
ate will refine its precise work program, with a view to preparing a first set
of national accounts estimates by June 30, 1986, according to an annual work
program that will be elaborated and discussed with IDA by March 31, 1986.
4/   Italy is providing an agricultural statistician who will help collect
agricultural statistics through a sample survey.
5/   In particular, the Statistics Directorate will make use of and keep up to
date an industrial census that will be prepared by a group coordinated by
an advisor to the Ministry of Industry financed under IDA's Industrial
Rehabilitation and Promotion Project (Credit 1234-GUI).
6/   CIDA is providing a statistician for public finance, banking and balance
of payments statistics.
7/   A first household survey was undertaken in October 1984 by a FAC advisor,
whose travel costs were financed bv the PPF advance for this project.



- 38 -
Annex IV
Page 6 of 9
The Directorate will be provided with a mini-computer, and will have access to
MPRN's computing facilities at the CNIG, but will be responsible for including
in ita proposal for annual national accounts preparation additional proposals
for data treatment if necessary.
14.       Qualifications.  The candidate should be an economic statistician,
fluent in French, with at least master's level education, with several years
of experience in several African countries in a national accounts unit.
Familiarity with estimation techniques will be invaluable, and ability to
animate and train a group of Guinean staff working under difficult conditions
essential.
Principal Training Adviser at the National Productivity Center (CNP)
15.       Reporting to the Director of CNP, the Principal Training Adviser
will be responsible for elaborating and carrying out a training program,
complementary to the work programs outlined above, for the staffs of MPRN, MEF
and CNMP. In collaboration with CNP's senior staff, the Principal Training
Advisor will:
(a) help CNP's management in defining the center's objectives, its work
program and the budget and other resources needed to carry it out;
(b) evaluate the training needs of the client agencies, the types of
staff to be retrained and the complementary training needed to
ensure that they have the professional, technical and, as required,
management skills to carry out their jobs;
(c) identify complementary training needs of the technical ministries,
responsible for sectoral strategies and project identification and
preparation;
(d)  identify training needs of ..9RN and CNMP staff to reinforce the
agencies charged with planning and procurement control;
(e) identify candidates for external training whenever training cannot
be carried out in Guinea, and propose specific courses to meet these
needs.
16.       The group of trainers that the Advisor will coordinate will be
responsible for organizing seminars in CNP's training facilities. The Advisor
will be responsible for the logistics of the training program and the neces-
sary training materials and support, and for organizing external consultants
and trainers needed for certain courses.
17.       Each seminar, on various aspects of planning and management consis-
tent with the ovtrall objectives of the project, will be organized in two
phases, the main Eeiinar of two to three weeks duration, and a follow-up
seminar of less than one week, about one month later during which the
participants (groups of 12-15) will discuss their experience with applying the
course material to their normal responsibilities. Participants, which will be
nominated by their ministry or department, will be released full-time from
their normal duties to participate in these training courses. A tentative



- 39 -
Annex IV
PRge 7 of 9
list of courses is: economic analysis of projects (5 sessions), financial
analysis and the budget process (7 courses), management skills (3 courses),
statistical methods and analysis (2 courses), national accounts and sectoral
accounting plans (4 courses), macroeconomic analysis (2 courses), computer and
office procedures (4 courses). Normally, each course would be carried out in
an approximately three-month module. The module would include a one-month
period for preparation of course materials and work planning with the Guinean
trainers and the resident advisors, delivery of the course (2-3 weeks,
full-time participation by trainees at CNP), debriefing of the trainers (one
week), on-the-job coaching by the trainer of the course participants, working
with their supervisors (three weeks), and a follow-up seminar or workshop and
preparatory work for the next course, evaluation of results, etc. (two weeks).
18.       The Adviser will meet with the trainees' supervisors to ensure
coordination of the courses with job requirements, to encourage follow-up
coaching, as appropriate, and to assess the courses' effectiveness. He will
coordinate closely with the other resident specialists.
19.       Qualifications.  The candidate should be specialized in training,
with experience in training economists, planners and managers in an African
setting. Sound knowledge of and experience with project analysis, planning
structures and the problems of administrative organization are essential.
Fluent in French, the Principal Training Advisor should have strong human
relations as wiell as pedagogical skills.
20.       Other Consulting Services.  To carry out the work program described
above, the consulting firm will also provide short term experts in each of the
four areas. In addition to the trainers specialized in each topic (para. 16),
the following short-term experts will undertake visits of one to three months
to perform specific tasks required to present the analysis indicated:
(a)  to support the Principal Project Planning Advisor, specialists in
project economic analysis (6 staff-months), financial analysis (8
staff-months), sector planning (15 staff-months). An additional 5
staff-months of financial analysis, legal and contract specialists
will assist the CNMP in the review and revision of Government
procurement regulations and the introduction of new procedures;
(b) to support the Senior Macroeconomic Advisor, macroeconomists (6
staff-months) and public finance, debt and external trade analysts
(4 staff-months);
(c) to support the Senior Statistical Advisor, 25 staff-months of
economists for national accounts estimation, and 25 staff-months for
.tatistical data collection and analysis.
In addition, an operation and management specialist will review internal MPRN
procedures and control documents in light of the Ministrv's needs for monitor-
ing and reporting (8 staff-months), and a three-month study of computer policy
and hardware requirements will be carried out with the CNIG.
21.       External Debt.  Tc. permit better monitoring of the economic rehabil-
itation program, management of Guinea's external debt portfolio, and the lay



- 40 -
Annex IV
Page 8 of 9
the basis for the eventual creation of a Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement,
staff of the Ministry of Finance's External Debt DivisiFon (DDE) need to
develop their skills in financial and debt analysis and monitoring. This
would be achieved by 12 staff months of short-term consultant visits during
1985 and 1986 to: (a) put in place a debt monitoring and reporting system; (b)
introduce quarterly reporting of external debt in a format useful for Guinean
economic decision-makers and external users such as the World Bank and other
organizations to whom Guinea must regularly report its external debt; (c)
teach DDE's staff the techniques of debt analysis and portfolio management, in
order to assess Guinea's repayment capacity and define appropriate terms for
new debt. Although it is envisaged initially that the system will be manual,
building on the existing records now kept by DDE, the monitoring system for
debt and debt servicing should be computerized by the end of the project.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
22.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports
within the periods indicated: (a) an inception report, within four months of
the starting date, should contain the general plan of action for the training
program, including the scheduling of the specific courses (para. 16) and any
propose' revisions to the first year work program or deadlines that have been
agree' oetween the Government and the Association; (b) progress reports, at
three month intervals, shall be submitted to the Project Coordinating Commit-
tee, summarizing the work performed during the period, the staff and financial
inputs, a summary of interim findings and progress toward preparing the
reports in the agreed annual work program, and an update of the work program
for the next quarter; (c) a draft completion report, within 33 months of the
starting date, summarizing work performed and major lessons learned.
PERSONNEL, FACILITIES AND DATA TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
23.       The Government will designate and make available on a full-time
basis: (a) suitably qualified persons to act as counterparts to the full-time
resident personnel, organized in working groups responsible for carrying out
the work program described above, and (b) suitable clerical and administrative
staff to support the working groups. The Government shall provide the consul-
tants with all available data for carrying out the work program, including,
but not limited to, statistics on the Guinean economy, finances and investment
performance, details of the personnel assigned to the benefitting agencies,
and all relevant information on existing Government accounts and administra-
tive and procurement procedures. Where work by the consultants or the working
groups requires the cooperation of local authorities or other Government
agencies, the benefitting agency (MPRN, MEF, CNP or CNMP) is to provide
liaison and ensure that access is provided to all information required for
carrying out the work program.
24.       The Government shall take all necessarv steps to permit the movement
of the consultants' staff safely and without hindrance both into, out of, and
as necessary internally within the country, as required for the performance of
their services.



- 41 -
Annex IV
Page 9 of 9
THE FIRM'S OFFER AND THE SELECTION CRITERIA
25.       In its offer, each firm should submit:  (a) a statement of its
experience in similar projects in sub-Saharan Africa, comments on the terms of
reference and work program (together with suggested modifications), and a
description of its approach to the task; (b) the names and curricula vitae of
the four resident specialists it is proposing, indicating their experience and
qualifications (with particular emphasis on satisfactory counterpart relation-
ships and success in training), confirming their availability to take up post
in Conakry at the latest in early March 1985, 8/ and designating the "team
leader"; (c) the qualifications and experience for the external debt special-
ist(s); (d) a description of the backup support and facilities to be provided
by the firm's head office and the method of recruitment and/or pool of
short-term consultants, together with a description of the administrative and
logistical arrangements it expects to undertake to establish the team in
Conakry.
26.       The relative weights to be attached to the five criteria during
evaluation of the technical offers are approximately: the firm and its
experience (15); approach to the task (15) and in particular to training (10);
team qualifications and experience (50, 10 for each position, plus 5 for the
team leader and 5 for the external debt specialist); and logistics/backup
(10).
27.       In accordance with the Guidelines, the Government will invite the
firm judged to have submitted the best technical offer to submit a financial
proposal and draft contract as a basis for negotiations. Prior to negotia-
tions, the Government may request that the four resident experts proposed by
the chosen firm visit Conakry for in-country interviews with senior Government
officials and personnel, and to familiarize themselves with conditions before
taking up their posts. The reasonable travel expenses of the four experts to
Conakry will be paid by the Government.
8/   The Government attaches particular importance to the selected firm's
undertaking that, but for exceptional cause, the staff proposed in the
offer will be available to take up their posts inmediately and will,
under normal circumstances, remain for at least the first 15 months of
the project.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 3
GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Technical Assistance for the Management of the Parapublic
Reform Program - Outline Terms of Reference
After 26 years of a State-run economy, the Guinean Government
has decided to liberalize the economy and reduce the role of the State
in the productive sectors.  It has requested IDA'a assistance for the
preparation and implementation of i) a far-reaching divestiture program
and ii) a rehabilitation program for those public enterprises that will
remdin in the Government's portfolio. The Government is preparing a
list of public enterprises to be liquidated, to be privatized (totally
or partially), to be rehabilitated, or to be merged and rehabilitated.
The thrust of the Government's policy is to withdraw from those economic
sectors where private sector involvement or interest exists, including
industry, commerce (import, wholesale and distribution), road transport,
agricultural production, etc. No public monopolies would be maintained,
with the exception of public utilities, and remaining public enterprises
will be competing with the private sector. As this major policy shift
will require top level expertise, the Government has requested the
assistance of an experienced investment bank (or consulting firm) to
manage this program.  Besides managing the divestiture program the
retained firm would also supervise the overall parapublic sector reform
program, which would redefine Government-Public Enterprise relations in
the sense of a larger enterprise autonomy, and strengthen the
enterprises remaining in the Government's portfolio; enterprise
rehabilitation programs which are currently being prepared or
implemented under various projects financed by IDA (Water Supply, Power,
Industrial Rehabilitation) or other donors will be continued in
parallel.
Technical Assistance
The project would finance the services of investment banking
and consulting experts to organize the divestiture, liqu4dation,
rehabilitation or merger of selected public enterprises and to assist
the Government in all matters relating to the divestiture program or the
management of the parapublic sector; it includes a resident advisor for
a two-year period and 58 man-months of consulting services. The firm
engaged to provide these services would:
i) assist the Government in the preparation of a prospectus,
in the search for investors and in the negotiation of sales
contracts for each of the companies to be sold (average of 2
man/months per company; 19 companies; total of 38 man/months);



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
ii) organize the sale of the assets of the companies to be
liquidated, with the exception of the regional commercial outlets
mentioned above (6 man-months);
iii) plan two mergers of companies that will remain in the
Government's portfolio, when such mergers result in economies of
scale or scope (3 man/months each; total of 6 man/months);
iv) review the institutional framework governing the
parapublic sector and draft legislation to increase enterprise
autonomy and accountability (4 man-months);
v) preparu the follow-up program for 1987-88 focussing on the
rehabilitation of enterprises maintained in the Government
portfolio (4 man/months); and
vi) advise the Government on all issues relating to the
divestiture program or the management of the parapublic sector
(resident advisor).
The project would also provide funds for the recruitment of
accounting services to supervise the liquidation of all the regional
retail outlets, namely ERCOA (marketing of crops, general retail),
Hydrovente (gas stations) and Libraport (books and school supplies)
which are established in each of the 33 regions; 12 man-months are
included for this task, which would be managed with personnel from the
Ministries of State Control and Commerce, which have representatives in
all the regions.
The budget for this component includes a provision of about
US$40,000 to cover the foreign exchange component of the incremental
operating costs for the local implementing agencies.
Guinean counterpart arrangements
The interministerial investment committee, comprising inter
alia representatives of MPRN and MEF would supertise the implementation
of the divestiture program under the general policy guidance of the
Government's Commission Economigue Nationale, headed by the Minister of
State for Administration Reform. The MEF would have the lead
responsibility for the divestiture exercise and the coordination of the
parapublic sector reform program. The MEF will be also in charge of the
actual liquidation of companies and of the evaluation of company assets
and will manage the special accounts in which the revenues from the
public enterprise sales or liquidations will be deposited; these
accounts will finance remaining debts owed by such enterprises to the
private sector as well as severance allowances for laid off workers.
Other Ministries, in particular Justice, Labor and the Technical
Ministries, would be associated to the program as needed.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
TIMETABLE
Draft list of enterprises to be liquidated,         February 28, 1985
privatized, merged or rehabilitated submitted
by the MPNR and the MEF
Terms of reference for the recruitment of a         March 8, 1985
consulting firm to provide technical assistance
to the parapublic sector; list of invited firms
Letter of invitation and document annexes sent    April 1, 1985
to above-mentioned firms
Review of bids and selection                        June 1. 1985
First consultant mission                            September 1, 1985
Final list of enterprises to be liquidated,         before Dec. 31, 1985
privatized, merged or rehabilitated, approved
by Government
Begin liquidation/privatization of commercial       before Dec. 31, 1985
public enterprises
Liquidation/privatization of the public             1985/1986
enterprises
Implementation of mergers and rehabilitation        1986-1988
programs



- 45 -             SInrA                                                  ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
~ A4         Seen.farOass Hnasmenot
Rew euteeit ectivitlee
USS.3i 1                                 tusk                                      looster                          flf|     i1h!ta  $_. Actiit ter so
1.  Hisltry oi Plelmos and
Natural Iemourceeo
toreresento plamnilg              Preparne dagneola of vmenet Rrere inrfcowe e                      tlime          Coutr  Nte_elt Harfal  to be
eseo  ic perfeore me                   for 1930/N1 tnvemtmeu  Pre                pre"pred io fTlu.
daeotml-mata. Idetity                  by Jbiary 15. 1I*.
e"matmaiato to delopment.
sad prepare gseres                     Praide Ilpt to pr epfactio  of
macr_aeoot,e dev-elop t                meteras  etr.tastoo md
atratep.                               pregron.
P Got ponetog                     Propr. eublic levmmtmat                PFrepa re1      o t _ l eeet              letor etrnojee ed tw"oetmt
pregore  wS  ae*abllo                  Pnoro      by Jose 30.   1b. end         preon. to be prepare  for
eftfeve precedure fowr                 upd.te geal ly thereafter,               peer. traospert  and agriculture
mnterln   lti  l1npleoftioe                                                    wunder MA-lItioeed projects.  MA
med updar000 it annually.              Prepre opratieonl aaeal fow              eerier woro  alae * aidevwe  In lAdma-
publ it ve tment for tupleae1-           try. Sweation an  health1. VW
tattoo  throuthoui Cevw.nt by            prpriti  wmeteor oupply progtra.
Itre  3 1. ING.                          Studimo to be bars. for oeetot
dooer  oatilge dertee 1luc.
CemoueIetlv  Creup forena-  for
mid-I IS.
oeemome data                       Proper. pr_eadree far ccl-            Preprn  iret met of leoally-              CIDA and Italy eln frlnleet-s toehnl-
laotin mod cotimeaien of             produced nAtIonal account.                rat assistance  to VW to cl lab.-
beta  atstiittel data for            'atleatam by Juno la.  9OR  and           rate In stottte  tilieterato
plasing.  Update national             updeto annully ethreaftr-.                moth  ln..
eccomito sot"tie,
2.   Hilnimtry  tf kseemm MAInance                                                                                       Technical amlate-ae to be pwrev-
dod by Franes under m tutmming
fldoot control                     I-proe budgetary proradurom           lIntradte cm  budgetary control            erbanauen t.
cad centrol                           precadures dunni  1435,i to rea-
mint wi th t1W.
WesselU   oawgcemot                tipreve remou  teoletion
mod traofero alf direct ,d
indireet tan reaemuva to
Itepe 1 sceets.
culte,                             Amlpe  and tepee   matomna             Istrodec    w mmimpltMed
procedures.  Intro     me              cuo tea  cede by mid-1901.
mipltftiod cumtee coa mmd
enfrece t procedurem.
tags  advice                      Prep        legl teat. rolated         Laosl draftien  t. be parltrmad
tO prolac  o utvote                    am projaet outpete reqise.
tetorol debt                      leoI  e aeternol debt sen-             Compote edit of mxtored  debt
toritg end mengo_at of debt            by Jon  1. IS8I.  Introduca gear-
portfolie.                             twrly debt repwrton  statem by
artch it. 1W
3.  Retimal Ceimiesn for                tepree efficiency ad crt-              Prpepre  -  pr*currmmt momann            COW  .111 *al  be reepeonible tor
Public Prwcrement (IP)             effectvesee of Ceerasant               to  e i pl"I rTed throughout              procurement felIce-up
procurent                              the CGoversnt b. Akugut 15.
togs.
4.  National Productivity              tIpleent project- related               nrf et I-country teintiwg                 ismdont epecdalits to help pro-
Center (ClIP)                      training to eat need. of               cursen  aM seminara                       pare an  offer trasnin ctrrear .
client aseciav.
S.  Parapublic Sector                   Prepare adelart                        Aetlen progre to be                      Oatputm  Importmat for
efame                              tmplee_-tetie  of                      prepred by March II.                      eubeaquent etructurol
actiao  prrogra  for                   lOgS for oubeeqnt                        edlueteent precaes.
dis0titcre/clefure?                    ieplcentatiec.
ref or
0.  Publie Settr                        Help dofi   GetsreMy                   Study to be tarried at                   output ed diecuestan to
*tploym t Study                   tfT reduction in                        duine  1911.                              be coorditnted with
public setter                                                                    cealta of study beiSn
employment and                                                                  ftnanced by  crepeoa
retreisl"n of etaff to                                                           swelopaat Peed* and with
light *t WV public                                                              records mangent
service realotlons.                                                               ot tiee to be undartahec
with  leDrIP asetetc.
7.  Acceetot  _d                        I-prove etadard of                     ILO to prepare prog ra,                    ill be ceerdinated with
editor trainins                    public sector                          by Key 1. 1915 ad                         No efforts to impris
acct.nt itg end                         ubeq""elt  taplan-t                     budgester  contraL. d
auditio.                               firme phle.                              with reforme Introduced  in
publtc enterprio control.
C.  Imecitet_iana                       taebll   streelined                    Iaergseotatien of IV.                     Kay tfture of Sek
deelopwet                          imt ietionl                            IMM  a   CentTal Bank                     country daltees.
fr     th  ion veoni                   I      nted prier
*__atinmc.                             r - Board prowontatien.
Sub  qt -mdificatiena
to be diacmood an
"owdd with Aseoiatie
dining project
imBpstatian. MA
prora   ppred  by
taberay IS. 111.



ANNEX VII
- 46 -                                                        Page b 1 o 
TFZ3ICAL 456 117Sf! 196Sf? 133 USoNIC WMIEEUU
omit Cat                 FertUp       jj2j    ftc eta    I.t.t          Plersian I mun    Paralle  i.t.t                        Total
teSrU.i.tiei.e~                       /ye.a      3012.r0.                                          2. 160                  3265    1.12.               .
PrieuLput Naccmommeie Alist..,            /Ye.,                  130.0I                   306         3)06     16.6          330.0    10.0        22.0   2.0
* V.hietse asid spe., parts                           1.2z    &.           (43  67:.9        2.0         31.6    16.6           31.3    30.0
*   ElEct fceipeseIt                  3     IC          (ES)  3~~~~~~~0.0
*   013.kits.e                                             la3         (10)  31.0        1.6
foeaUatet                                 tol etal-    32.9
tempatte                         aT      a.n                           (0)  17.4               343  23.4              (2    1.1
Ernst  Wct  E toot.               3                                   (36) 229. a(3 0) 129.0                           (1    4. 5
Istita siNahd.(2)                                                      I) 329.0               (30) 329.6               (1)  "4.1
ZtetermwPamer soli)                                                    (4)  11. a6    14(5    .
Caging., Its,tl                                      (3)               (     is1.1
Ccsptsi meIot.ec.                                                              20.6
* Office fuppifes.                                                             .Ill         4          44         d            TN        4            n    .       m s      na rm
Teclemlcel Lictare' Smiecise  filet     70~~~~~to           (1)20.6                 (53 230.0              (1) 230.3
tc..eilkheiet.nce mc.       lycoc      ~~~~~~~~40           "I)  17.          1.    ()  11.        1.0      Ii  11.6       1.
*   Copalteete  Tiessi        (trip        1    ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~It tripe    3')  10.0  2.6   3)P 2.6  1.           30.       16
rt.te,e  D.h  Ceeitsct                    1e 2.9                          (H) 301.2              ((.1  77.3
fepuiter Atquisition3 P...
*   Ofie   q.pse.'tifetrt,e.r                                                 30.0       3.3)0 
M" lORIAL CUMIITIU  MPk ELtC Pm&UIT  (MM
PrccmeCeneetakt                    last       Iflo    (17          (1)  64.1
* Office PhroirneiRslqepst                               4     (9)          71t) 0.0         2.33
UTr         fl                                                                     94.1      1.0
Friecipel Trflh.iq Swiest      ~~~~~fyger  10                       3101.0      30.0       310.0    10.0           330.0    30.0       22.6   3.0
Part-cime tee50er  11 ete((aewth.)    leecH-am  32.9
I carat at 2 a.                                                      36I7.4El  77.4                                  ci)  16.7
PIt..,e =  elelyeie/tett.8      (2-)
I  or. -  I a.                                                     4)  77.                El   56.7
Bcetisttc                          4
2 cava. me I se.                                                     (1   1.1                (I   17
UsE tenetl Acat                   12)
*cemras at 1 a.                                                      ()3.                     3    37()7.
Oeermea 1reieteulvWaelioahl;   (45                1 l               (II)  45.0              "Il(11 e.10            I353  ei1.0
preparactie or Acct. treiSsa         (3                                   411.
IS.k-b3ie.pr/Acceeet.ent 3rat.in"                                             300.0                   70.0
*    rsiet.eo  Cate                                                             i&.@        W
*    ffite SepLteI,: 25.                                                                     608         30.0      1.5          30.0      tO0
?.PIntoc- 16 Treiniew.t teIpmeet                                                 10.0                  310.0
*   Vhite. L  p? aes. "ofrCest                                                   10.6        4.0         30.0     4.0            4.0      3.0                       __
*~~rs  -~~~i       ece.,779    39.0       131,    3.0          22.0   2.0    3)97O.-7  324.0   TTIrT
PARA*POIC 61766  "MOte   tICPfSUI)
Ceelta  Speialst                yr                   310.. li                  41.0       -1.0        330.6    30.0           41.0      1.0
Acceestica ipecleltet. ' EU  et..atl,l         32.9                14)                      A 77.4(9    .
Oivetitere ipecet.l.ece 314 eea((ethel                l...i.   30.                              (in) 331.0              (14l 390.4
Ecaeeseic "1fer  p,mals,           (14 *t.I(-u3                         (E2)33.0                 (4)  s1.e                                                        no.                 .
Preparetice    re PolLe-e  fr~olt  (5 staff-en                                                   (S)  *A.1                                                        44.1"4
fe..Ctctton.1 dely.ie               16 steff-eI                           (3   3  C)   44.1                                                                       77.4               77.4
*   PFc-feasibility %nnS                                                           10.0       3'.0        356.0    10.0           350O.0    70.0                      110.0   'Al,0    610.0.
VAR.i te.ter    I7.tSt..    17 etIf-al                                    Ei14.'                 (4)  11.4                                                         go.]              0.
11saip-t/Sppitas                          V                       150.6~~~~~~ri It'      3130       0.                        33.1    10.0          0
stairC  USEt cOST                                                            1.419.9      3414.0     1.A04.)    99.0        1.U97.e    91.0        11It   3.13   1.970.9   143.6  9.2"Z. 9
PIIIBCAL COUTIUCC  IS
fisl ..                                                                       *4.1       131.7       64.5      IV30.9      37.4                   -     -        J19.7    26.4    220.3
(flcept o, *3                                                                33.4         0.4       4M5.      II.           409.3    Z1.9       W0.V   1.1      996.9    14. 1.03.).4
TOTAL.                                                                   1.477,1      19.0       1.997.    311.31       2. 311.1   332.1      339.0  31.5  30.110.)   451.9 30.2.0.4
3.fEe.nia ei.  Pry I9s                                                         400.0                                                                               400.0             460.0
TOTAL. ProJgCT COST                                                      4.077.)      367.0      2.9987.2   311.       Z2117.6   332.3        3 35.t  it.,  30.520.)  441.9 30994.4
Pisnen 31. 1365



- 47 -
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 7
GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Training Issues
].        Analysis of performance of key institutions Involved in development
planning and economic management shows a serious deficiency in skilled manpow-
er in all areas of economic, financial, statistical and managerial activities.
Consultant reports on the Ministry Planning and Statistics and the Central
Bank clearly identified the skill gaps and the number of staff involved in
each case. 91
2.        The project would provide specialist services to assist in develop-
ing the systems and procedures to improve the performance of economic manage-
ment institutions, and strengthen the capacity of the National Productivity
Center (CNP) to deliver the required training programs. CNP would organize
and provide classroom training, while the resident experts and consultants
assigned to the project institutions would offer on-the-job training and
coaching. Up to 45 months of overseas fellowships would be awarded to a
selected number of CNP trainers and senior staff of MPRN, MEF and the Central
Bank for training needs that can be better offered outside Guinea, and to
familiarize economic management personnel with experience in similar agencies
abroad.
To N    al Productvi enter
3.        In 1977, the Government established CNP to provide training and
consulting services to government administrative units and public enterprises.
CNP was established following discussions between the Government and UNDP and
ILO, who proposed to aid Guinea in improving its training institutions by
creating an agency which could itself provide technical assistance for organ-
ization and management to state enterprises, and aid in the retraining and
upgrading of staff. CNP's role and objectives were defined by Presidential
Decree in September 1979, and include: to actively participate and consult in
the organization or reorganization of public enterprises and services; to
contribute to the improvement of management techniques in Guinea's economic
units by studying technical norms, production planning and benefit/cost
analysis; to develop training programs and courses based on the needs ex-
pressed by various enterprises and government services; to deliver training by
organizing courses, conferences, seminars and workshops; to develop management
manuals for various enterprises; to effect, support and reinforce all economic
research; to help in conferences and workshops organized by other departments;
to implement research on indigenous technology; and to diffuse information
regarding choice and adaptability of appropriate technologies.
9/   These reports, which are available in the project file, show the need for
training of about 60 MPRN staff and 10 staff in BCRG's External Debt
Division.



- 48 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 7
4.        CNP's policies are established by its supervising ministry, now the
Ministry of Labor and the Public Service, but until recently the Ministry of
Information and Ideology. Under the former regime, the President took an
active role in CNP's policy setting, generally by issuing periodic decrees. In
recent years, the operations of CNP became less politicized than this supervi-
sory situation might imply.
5.        CNP has a technical Directorate and an Administrative Directorate.
The technical directorate has seven divisions, dealing with teaching and
documentation (development of teaching methods, curriculum and training
materials), production (work study and work methods, office management),
administration (training/consulting in organization and methods, personnel
management, secretarial practices and hotel management), accounting, informa-
tion, technology and development, and support to seven CNP regional offices
located in provincial headquarters. Of the 59 staff members, 17 are full-time
trainers or consultants, generally educated in economics, administration,
engineering and mathematics. They are supplemented by 10 part-time profes-
sional staff. The other staff perform administrative and support services.
The 17 full-time professional staff have an average of nine years work experi-
ence, and ten of the present staff have studied overseas in various disci-
plines related to their university studies and present jobs.
6.        CNP's Director-General is responsible for all of the divisions and
coordinates and monitors the Center's various activities. Planning is done on
a yearly basis by the DG, who develops the plan with his two directors (tech-
nical and administrative). Annual planning is primarily focussed on stated
needs expressed by the various government services and state enterprises
located throughout the country. The general annual program is reviewed in
light of present resources, and subdivided by division according to the
support it could provide to a training activity. In essence the plan, which
is developed in April of each year, is fairly flexible and decided by the DG
and his staff.
7.        CNP coordinates to a high degree with other Government agencies and
departments, normally through questionnaires or interviews done in the region-
al centers and in Conakry by CNP staff. This needs assessment usually ends in
February, and leads to the preparation of a two- or three-activity annual
program. CNP sometimes hires for a short time university staff or staff of
the client agency to help develop course materials or activities to meet the
needs expressed by the cliert.
8.        CNP's offices at Donka, a close-in suburb of Conakry, are old and in
poor repair. There are 12 offices of varying size, three classrooms (60, 60
and 120 sq. m.), one 160 sq. m. conference room, 70 sq. m. of library space,
one technical repair room/workshop, 2 storerooms, 1 darkroom and two print-
ing/offset rooms. Training and office equipment are limited, and operating
spares (typewriter ribbons, etc.) are in short supply. Furniture is also very
limited.
9.        Training activities appear very "ad hoc", as CNP's limited resources
and rather vague (or perhaps overambitious) mandate limited its effective
duties. The Center does not have financial autonomy, and receives support
from the supervising Ministry's budget and from ILO, with which it has had a



- 49 -
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 7
long-standing relationship. Its major training operation was organizing and
carrying out training for hotel staff and waiters, with limited ILO assis-
tance, but it has also provided, with some success, some in-service training
and upgrading courses for civil servants after the working day. Consequently,
the impact of its programs has been limited. CNP's staff have also done some
consulting for public enterprises, generally on organizational questions.
10.       CNP's medium-term work program includes efforts to introduce cost
accounting in state enterprises, an analysis of the technologies used in
Guinean production units, a study of indigenous technologies, a survey of
local touristic sites, and a study of introducing local specialities into the
hotel and restaurant sector. Apart from the first goal, these represent
largely the personal interest of the CNP staff, and the realization that,
until recently, the priority to systematic staff training under the previous
regime was very low, and resources were going to be difficult to attract.
Training Needs
t1.       The organizational aspects of management and planning in Guinea
were, under the former regime, finely honed and attuned to a socialist state
model with the attendant compartmentalization and division of labor and tasks
in varied layers of hierarchies. The organization of the economy and many
subsequent reorganizations in order to fit planning targets resulted in
greater control, monitoring and direction. But direction of the economy
without real plans and adequate control mechanisms and with little real
coordination has been virtually impossible for a number of years. Most agree
that infusions of development assistance have been accompanied by most of the
logistical aids needed to carry out the task. In the technical ministries,
some quite capable staff have been trained. But in the core ministries, the
secrecy and absolute centralization of decision-making practiced by the former
regime did not permit even the all-too-infrequent cases of staff development
and training observed elsewhere in the public service, where more active donor
support to projects led to acquisition of some technical and management skills
by Guineans involved in project implementation. There are a few cases of
long-term personnel submitting evidence that they have received no on-the-job
training, formal upgrading or training courses to improve their skills. Large
numbers of younger staff, recent graduates of the universities in Guinea, have
few years of experience and have never worked in their jobs during any period
of relative prosperity. In the last 15 years, Guinea has replaced almost
entirely the last of any civil servants who had received skill training
outside of Guinea and almost all who would have served in the pre-independence
administration. In addition to this situation, where there is a lack of
either experienced or skilled personnel, there is a lack of a systematic
approach to problem-solving and to models used in planning and control, most
notably auditing. The existence of the pervasive black market, and the
prevalence of parallel market prices for food and most consumer goods, makes
most civil servants unable to meet their needs on their official salaries;
hence, absenteeism and short work hours are the norm, as well as a severe lack
of motivation.
12.       Although the new authorities appear determined to improve and remove
the bleaker aspects of this situation, most notably the absolute centraliza-
tion of decision-making, much will need to be done to bring the performance of



- 50 -
Annex VIII
Page 4 of 7
the civil service up to the standard needed in a developing nation as re-
source-rich as Guinea. But base skills have to be improved if the Government
is to be able to apply a systematic approach to management of the economy.
Many of the requisite skills are now employed for economic, financial and
statistical analysis, but in terms of theories and practices learned through
experience that are outdated. Much of the actual work is done manually.
without calculators or copiers, for example. The productivity level is low
and the work of a low quality, compared to the needs a government attempting
to improve the country's economic condition. It is a situation where on-the-
job learning is difficult because the supervisor is outdated, or lacks the
training and experience himself. Guinean managers often state that they feel
they have adequate means to motivate personnel through the work itself,
provided there is adequate equipment and facilities. However, key decision-
makers suggest that many staff do not know what they do not know, and that a
generalized retraining is needed, following a strategy of starting with basic
skills and the introduction of new systems and procedures. The backgrounds of
many civil servants reveal intensive theoretical training rather than skill
development. After a fashion, staff know what to do and how to do it, but at
a higher level of abstraction, why a task is done that way and how it relates
to a larger professional or technical context is often unknown.
13.       During project preparation, consultants assessed skills needs in the
Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources and Statistics (MPRN), the Central
Studies Office (BCEP) and the External Debt Division of the Central Bank
(DDE). Management skills need to be learned by about 30 key staff at MPRN, 5
at CNMP (the new agency that will be charged with public procurement control)
and 5 at DDE, while professional skills of 240 MPRN staff, 25 BCEP staff 10/
20 BCRG staff and 25 CNP trainers. As many as 830 auditors and accounting
staff at the Ministr' of State Control may also need upgrading in their
professions, but taking into account the needs of state enterprise and
government ministry accounting staff, their training needs can be met only in
the medium-term (para. 19). These needs can be categorized in the table below:
10/ It is anticipated that most of BCEP's staff will be redeployed to
technical ministries and to the Ministry of Planning and Natural
Resources, following the Government's decision to abolish BCEP and create
a more efficient and functional central procurement control agency.



- 51 -
Annex VIII
Page 5 of 7
Course Title             DuTation    ETrolmnt   U A8
Ecmc Anlalysis
of Projerts               3 Xk         125     (NP (2), NFRN (10), Tecmical Ministries (110)
iaP al Analysis           3 wks         50      CNP (2), MPt (10), MH  (15), Tech Ministries (23)
Natinal Accounts           3 wks        60      MPRN (60)
Sectoral Acetirg Plam      1 wk         25      MPEN (10), Technia MNistrie (15)
Budget Process             2 wks        25      IPRN (5), NW (20)
Statistical Methods      2 x 1 wks      30      MPRN (30)
Macroeconone Analysis    2 x 3 wks      40      NPRN (40)
Natixal Planning           1 wk         40      MPRN (20), HEF (10), Technical Ministries (10)
Office Procedures          2 wks        60      CNP (10), ME (20), MPN (20), BCRG (5), CAw (5)
SupervisoryManagaent     2 x 2 wks      45      MPN (10),MEF (10), CNP (9), BCr (5), CO (2) +7
Training Ccuqiter Users    1 wk         15      MPRN (4), MUE (4), CN1G (6)3 ME (1)
These figures are approximate.  The Senior Training Advisor and CNP staff will
prepare detailed syllabuses for the training course and follow-up seminars and
workshops, which will be carefully integrated into the work programs of the
benefitting agencies.
Accountant/Auditor Training
14.       Current Situation.  Accounting practices in Guinea are governed by a
1961 decree which instituted the "Plan Comptable National" (PCN), which was
elaborated and complemented by a 1964 decree. The PCN, which is probably
unique to Guinea, diffeis in several significant details from both French and
the OCAM plans comptables, requires all accounts to be grouped into seven main
headings: sources of term financing, fixed assets and inventories, third-party
accounts, short- and medium-term financial assets and liabilities, operating
costs, revenue sources, and a profit and loss appropriation account. Peculiar-
ities of the accounting code include a special account to record, as a sepa-
rate source of long-term financing, the value of human labor that goes into
the construction of fixed assets, e.g., use of Government workers or voluntary
community effort to construct roads or buildings.
15.       The Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources and Statistics
allocates and monitors the investment budget, while the Ministry of Economy
and Finance is responsible for the recurrent budget. Each ministry maintains
its own accounts through a single entry bookkeeping system of Government
budgetary accounting adopted from France. MPRN and MEF consolidate the
administration accounts for the aspects of the budget for which they are
responsible. Every public enterprise is expected to maintain proper
double-entry book enabling the preparation of annual income statements and
balance sheets complying with the PCN. These accounts were audited annually
by the Ministry of State Control, -et up especially for this purpose.11/
11/ The responsibilities of MCE, which was abolished in December 1984, have
been transferred to MEF.



- 52 -
Annex VIII
Page 6 of 7
Audit reports for IDA's First Education Project were of high quality, but
IDA-financed revenue-earning entities are required to have independent,
outside auditors. Generally. political review of enterprise audits under the
past regime uncovered accounting errors and poor control practices, but these
were rarely corrected beyond correction of addition errors and redoubled
efforts to collect past due accounts and to settle outstanding debts between
various enterprises.
16.       Professional accounting standards are supposed to be set and super-
vised by a professional body, the "Ordre National de Normes et de
Comptabilite". There is no indication that this body, or any of its members,
maintains official contacts with any international accounting or auditing
bodies. Before the change of Government, there was not a single private local
firm known to be in public practice as accountant or auditor in Guinea. Since
April, there seems to be some interest by returning Guineans to establish such
offices, and several international firms already operating in the country are
considering setting up branches in Conakry.
17.       Modern auditing seems a likely weak point nationwide simply because
of Guinea's relative isolation since independence. The country has produced,
on the other hand, a relatively large number of accountants and bookkeepers
who can maintain double-entry books and produce accounts as required by the
country's law. Every institution in the countrv appears at least nominally to
be well-staffed with accountants and bookkeepers. some graduates in account-
ing from the Conakry University (ex-Institut Polytechnique Gamal Abdul Nasser)
and the Accounting School in Conakry do not readily find employment after
graduation, in part because the previous state guarantee of employment led to
a state system which emploved more staff (including accountants) than it could
fully and effectively utilize. The development of the private sector is
likely to change this system in the future. For now, however, it seems clear
that the problem in Guinea is not the number of qualified accountants, but the
quality of their knowledge and exposure, especially in auditing and other
matters such as tax, partnership, company and other private-sector-related
accounting practices.
18.       With Guinea trying to open up its economy and encourage local and
foreign private investment, it is no longer satisfactory for it to be gener-
ously provided with an indigenous pool of staff trained to implement its
unique National Accounting Plan. It is now necessary to expose qualified
Guinean accountants to internationally accepted accounting and auditing
principles, and to introduce these practices into the curriculum of accounting
courses. In particular, concepts and procedures dealing with private sector
accounting, which have hitherto been ignored, need to be emphasized.
19.       Accountant/Auditor Training Component.  This component would be
implemented in two phases. The Government has already held discussions with
ILO. In a first phase of four staff-months, ILO would identify priority needs
for accountant and auditor training, with an emphasis on private sector
acrounting needs, and elaborate a limited traiT,ing program to cost not more,
in its first phase, than US$300,000. This amount would correspond to the cost
of about two-staff years of a full-time trainer, although it is expected that
:his budget would be allocated for: consultant trainers to give professional
upgrading courses in Conakry on various accounting topics; consultants to



- 53 -
Annex VIII
Page 7 of 7
revise accounting and auditing rules in light of the investment code and tax
regulations for the private sector; establishing auditing standards; and
introducing standards for licensing and discipline of the profession. Follow-
ing agreement with the Association, the Government would engage ILO to execute
the first phase of the training program. Classroom and seminar instruction
will take place at the CNP in Conakry.






