Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22365
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36550; SCL-3655A; SCPD-3655S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$l 1.0 MILLION
TO
ECUADOR
FOR A
MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
December 26, 2001
Sector Management Unit: Mining Department (CMNDR)
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru (LCC6C)
Latin American and the Caribbean Region (LCR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = US Dollars
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASM                 Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
BGS                 British Geological Survey
CODIGEM             Corporation for Geological, Mining, and Metallurgical Research and Development
DFID                Department for International Development (DFID, U.K.)
DINAMA              National Directorate of the Environment
DINAMI              National Directorate of Mining
DINAPA              National Directorate of Environmental Protection
DINAGE              National Directorate of Geology
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
GIMP                Geological Information and Mapping Program
GIS                 Geological Information System
GOE                 Government of Ecuador
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
MA                  Ministry of Environment
MEM                 Ministry of Energy and Mines
MSPSP               Mining Sector Policy and Strategy Paper
NGO                 Nongovemmental Organization
PMI                 Public Mining Institutions
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration
PSR                 Project Status Report
UAM                 Mining Environment Unit
SES                 Swedish Environmental Systems
SSM                 Undersecretariat of Mines (MEM)
SSPA                Undersecretariat of Environmental Protection (MEM)
SIDA                Swedish Intemational Development Agency
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:   Peter van der Veen
Task Team Leader:   Gotthard Walser



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                       13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     18
10. Additional Informnation                                                            20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                                  35
Map IBRD 24579R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007129                                      Project Name: MINING TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
Team Leader: Gotthard Walser                             TL Unit: CMNPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. December 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   L/C/TF]Number: CPL-36550;
SCL-3655A;
SCPD-3655S
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/09/1990                             Effective: 01/01/1994         07/18/1994
Appraisal:  11/30/1992                               MTR: 06/01/1996            11/10/1997
Approval:  10/21/1993                              Closing: 06/30/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/Imnplementing Agency.  Government of Ecuador (GOE)/Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
Other Partners.  Department for Intemational Development (DFID, U.K.)/ Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA, Sweden)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice Presiclent:     David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Counttry Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                        Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      Peter A. Van Der Veen                     Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:  Gotthard Walser                           Aura Garcia de Truslow
ICR Primary Author:  Sati Achath; Gotthard Walser
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Institutiotnal Development Impact: SU
Bank PerJbrmance: S
Borrowver Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Pro ect at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The two overall objectives of the project were to: (a) attract new private mining investment and support the
systematic development of increased, yet environmentally sound, mineral production; and (b) arrest
mining-related environmental degradation and mitigate the damage that results from the use of primitive
and inadequate technology by informal miners. The specific objectives included: (a) assisting the
Govemment in implementing its new Mining Law - passed in 1991 - by strengthening sectoral institutions
both at the policy and core functions levels; (b) upgrading small-scale miners' technology; (c) instituting
applicable environmental standards and a monitoring system; (d) helping contain and possibly detoxify
mining-related hazardous wastes; and (e) monitoring mining-related health issues among the mining
communities.
The first objective of the project was relevant for the country, and realistic from a technical point of view.
In particular, considering the: (a) potential for developing an industrial-scale mining sector producing
10-20 tons of gold per year in the medium term (6-8 years) to meet increasing world demand for gold; (b)
the diversification of mining activities, including base-metals from sulfide deposits for producing copper,
zinc, silver, and molybdenum; and (c) the possibility of moving the sector from a production of US$115
million in 1991 to more than US$600 million by 2000, the project objectives were fully justified as
demonstrated by the results from project studies on the mineral endowment of Ecuador.
The second objective was also relevant considering the mostly informal and illegal artisanal and small-scale
mining (ASM) "boom" which had taken place during the 80s and early 90s in Southem Ecuador and, while
representing a significant generation of income, had negative impacts on the communities and the
environment within the area. In addition, the contamination related to ASM activities represented a
potential threat to other downstrearn activities of prime importance for the national economy, such as
shrimp fanning and banana plantations, along the southem coastal zone or even to agriculture in some
areas of northemmost Peru. However, to "arrest" degradation can be considered to have been a rather
optimistic outcome, considering the complexity of socio-economic factors controling the development of
ASM activities as well as the time frame required to change cultural, more than technical, attitudes from
miners.
The project was consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy to support private sector
development. The project directly supported the Government's 1990 Mining Sector Policy and Strategy
paper (MSPSP), developed with the Bank assistance, which stressed the need to facilitate and attract
private investment by making Ecuador intemationally competitive. The project was also significant for
strengthening the enforcement of the new Mining Law approved in 1991, which was the essential building
block for the sector development, particularly in terms of providing concessionary rights, restricting
discretionary powers, tightening environmental requirement for mining, and creating equality for national
and intemational investors. The Bank's involvement in the project was expected to enhance the
Government's ability to administer and enforce the Law, help restructure sector institutions and bring
intemational experience to bear on its new mining program, especially in matters of environmental concem.
The Bank assistance was also expected to help the Government mobilize financing, and coordinate and
focus activities of bilateral agencies such as Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and
the Department for Intemational Development (DFID) interested in the mining sector in Ecuador.
The project also took into account three main risk factors. First was the risk of the existing and later
Govemments seeking an expanded role for the public sector in mining production. To mitigate this risk, the
new Mining Law restricted Government operations to special mining zones and reserve areas considered of
strategic interest. In addition, the revised Policy and Strategy Document and covenants in the Loan
Agreement also addressed this issue. Second risk pertained to the difficulty in changing environmentally
- 2 -



unsound practices being employed by artisanal and small-scale miners. However, some changes were
already taking place as better organized small-scale miners were voluntarily upgrading their technology.
Third, there was the risk of Government finding it difficult to sustain activities initiated under the project.
The project attempted to mitigate the risk by incorporating into the project design activities such as
institutional restructuring and development of core functions, which would permit specific and important
major activities related to technological upgrading, environmental monitoring, and the establishment of the
mining cadastre.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no formal revision of the original project objectives, as they are stated in the MOP and the Loan
Agreement. However, there was during implementation an important and progressive shift towards the
development of processes and activities to increase consultation and participation of the community, civil
society and nongovernment organizations in relation to the project and, more broadly, to the mining sector
development. This trend followed the growing worldwide awareness during the last decade by communities
and companies alike regarding the need of deeper community involvement to optimize the potential
contribution of mining to local and reginal socio-economic development (see for example the proceedings of
the "Mining and the Community" conference, Quito 1997). There was also increased focus on a multiple
and broader use of environmental and geo-infonnation for development and land use management, instead
of being mainly focused on mineral sector development.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components:
(A)    Policy Management. This component consisted of:
(i)    Technical assistance to Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) on: (a) application and revision of
the Mining Law, Mining Regulation and associated decrees, norms and other related statutory or regulatory
texts; (b) organization and operation of mining sector public agencies; (c) relations between mining sector
public agencies and nongovernmental organizations and private mining companies operating in Ecuador;
(d) minerals marketing, trading and export issues; and (e) taxation and economic matters pertinent to the
mining sector.
(ii)   Technical assistance and in-service training to National Directorate of Mining (DINAMI) on: (a)
legal and procedural issues with respect to the issuance, registration, and termination of mining concessions
and processing licenses; (b) accounting, financial and administrative issues with respect to the assessment,
imposition and collection of mining royalties and fees; and (c) development, application, and enforcement
of mine safety and health standards and procedures.
(iii)  Technical assistance and in-service training, with Swedish assistance, to National Directorate of
the Environment (DINAMA) on the development, application and enforcement of environmental standards
for the mining sector and on the carrying out of its other activities with regard to such sector, focussing
inter alia, on (a) the establishment of appropriate organizational and staffing schedules and field inspection
procedures in support of such application and enforcement; (b) the design and establishment of effective
mechanisms to facilitate the participation of nongovernmental organizations in environmental monitoring
and rehabilitation related to mining activities; and (c) the preparation of an institutional reform plan for
DINAMA
(iv)   Technical assistance to Corporation for Geological, Mining, and Metallurgical Research and
Development (CODIGEM) on strategies and mechanisms for: (a) the privatization of publicly-held mining
properties or operations and for its divestiture of mining rights in Ecuador; (b) attracting new private sector
- 3 -



investment to the mining sector in Ecuador and upgrading the technical and managerial capacity of
artisanal and small-scale miners or enterprises; and (c) aiding mining enterprises or miners with respect to
mining safety and health standards and procedures.
(v)    Support for the proper execution of the general managerial and technical functions of MEM,
DINAMI, DINAMA and CODIGEM through the provision of incremental operating cost funding, office
fumiture and equipment, and vehicles.
(B)    Policy Implementation. These included:
Environmental Management (with Swedish assistance)
(i)    Systematic monitoring and establishment of a data baseline of the environmental pollution and
occupational health hazards caused by mining.
(ii)  Implementation of methods to rehabilitate in a technical and environmentally feasible manner,
areas environmentally degraded by mining activity and prevent further environmental degradation.
Geological Information Infrastructure (with British assistance)
(iii)  Systematic data gathering, production and publication of regional geological maps at 1:250,000
scale and description reports of an approximately 36,000 km area of Ecuador's Western Cordillera.
(iv)   Systematic data gathering, production and publication of regional thematic geo-scientific maps at
1:250,000 scale and reports of an approximately 36,000 km area of Ecuador's Western Cordillera.
(v)    Analysis of known ore-districts in Ecuador and use of the results of such analyses to identify and
study currently unrecognized ore-districts and propose appropriate prospection methodologies.
Information and Management Systems (with Swedish assistance)
(v)    Computerization of CODIGEM's budgetary planning, accounting and control activities, as well as
development and operation of mining information system that would provide the general public access to
mining documentation and databases regarding mines, mining and metallurgical information and sector
statistics, mineral occurrences, showings and prospects and related environmental matters.
(vi)  Improvement and implementation of a mining cadastre which will effectively record, monitor and
provide public access to up-to-date information such as status of applications for mining concessions, and
exact geographical area of concessions.
Assistance to Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (with Swedish assistance)
vii)   Provision of technical assistance to artisanal and small-scale mining operations in Ecuador with
regard to: (a) mining methodology, environmental safeguards and simple mining economics and reducing
environmental contamination; and (b) identification of suitable potential private joint venture mining
partners.
(C)    Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage and coordinate project activities.
3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components was formally revised. However, some of them were refocused, aligning them with
the Bank's and country's agenda for stronger focus on mining and environment:
*   Institutional strengthening: increased linkage between the institutional component and the development
of the technical components.
*   CODIGEM: the objectives of the agency - renamed as a National Geological Directorate (or DINAGE)
under SSM - were redefined to fulfill the functions of a Geological Survey, as provider of the basic
geological information infrastructure (see Text Box 1). Its "corporative" functions, as representant of
the State in the development of mining operations, were eliminated and the promotion functions
restricted to the national mineral potential and to multi-sectoral information, including environmental
- 4 -



base line, geological hazards and land-use information.
*   Environmental management: greater involvement of local communities.
*   Geological information infrastructure: increased focus on multi-sectoral information and diffusion of
information in relation of the use of it.
*   Information and management systems: increased synergies based on a linked cross-sector entities
network.
*   Assistance to artisanal and small-scale mining: shifting from a techo-economic towards a more
comprehensive approach, including legal, management and socio-economic factors.
Geo-information and Development
An important result from the PRODEMINCA project was to provide a clearer
understanding of the links between geo-information and the physical and institutional
pre-requisites to establish a comprehensive development framework - as well as of the
actions to be implemented to improve them through TA projects. The provision of geo-
data is fundamental for good governance and to manage, for example, the
multifunctional use of space, water resources, health and food securty, the
environment, natural disasters and other areas. Key principles include:
.  The mandate, organization and work programs of government agencies have to be
defined or adjusted in order to establish the capacity of public (mining) institutions to
provide the information required by the society development needs.
*  Civil society organizations and the private sector have to be specifically targeted
and actively involved in order to optimize the potential benefits resulting from a
proper use of the information.
*  The public good nature, broad access and regulations regarding the use of the
information should be defined in a clear and transparent information policy
statement, agreed upon with all stakeholders.
Text Box 1
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not do an official assessment of the project's quality at entry.
Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry, on balance, to be satisfactory. As mentioned in the earlier
section, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy and the Government
priorities and met the critical needs of the mining sector. In particular, the selected comprehensive approach
to sector reform reflected lessons learned in similar recent Bank projects in Latin America as the most
effective way to achieve consistent and sustainable outcomes. Since MEM had the technical capacity
especially with the help of external consultants, the quality of technical design was generally adequate to
meet the project's overriding objective. During preparation of the project, major risk factors were
considered and discussed. Stakeholders and cofinanciers were also involved.
However, there were a few design shortcomings. Considering the internal political climate and lack of
political stability, the project was ambitious. Multitude of project components (13) and institutional
weaknesses on the part of the Government especially the MEM, made the project risky from its inception.
There was also a lack of strong enough links between the technical and institutional components. While
technical components including environment, geoscientific information, and information systems were
implemented by highly competent technical experts with new vision and creative ideas, institutional
components had to encounter several barriers, including periodical lack of political commitment and, in a
few cases, difficulties to involve professionally qualified people to take care of the implementation.
The project preparation did not identify the risk of fluctuation in commodity prices or the extent of coming
national political and economic turmoil. Because of the downturn of commodity prices, as well as
- 5-



periodical political turmoils, investment in mining activities in Ecuador was not attractive to major
exploration companies and they left the country seeking better opportunities elsewhere (this situation
apparently started to revert in late 2000). Likewise, the project did not take into account the adverse impact
of the worldwide trend in mining activities resulting i. a. from the 'Bre-X scandal' in Indonesia and fallout of
the East Asian crisis. Many "junior" exploration companies were affected by the dearth of financing
available from the stock market consequent to these developments.
In addition, as it appeared gradually, the design and implementation of a consistent communication and
participation strategy would have facilitated project activities and involvement of stakeholders and civil
society concemed with the project outcome. In particular, this need became evident in 1995 in the cases of
ASM and enviromnental issues as well as, later on, of generation of geological information and could be
progressively incorporated into project components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved significant results. Both the legal and institutional frameworks were fully reformed
according to best practice and to Ecuadorian specificities (cf. A Mining Strategy for Latin America, WB
Technical Paper No. 345, 1996), and they compare positively with other countries on a world wide basis in
terms of sector management capacity and investment environment.
*   Legal framework. A modem mining Law was prepared and passed (1991) under project
preparation and, under implementation, complemented by regulations to enforce it. Furthermore, an
amendment to improve the existing Law was passed in August 2000 (as part of the so-called "Ley
Trolle II" package) complementing the essential legal components to provide a sustainable and
competitive framework for the development of the mining sector. Significant progress regarding
the development of more comprehensive consultation mechanisms for the mining sector - an
objective identified by SSM and the project in 1996 to respond to the growing awareness that local
communities need to be closely involved, and, later, as a consequence of the adoption of a new
Ecuadorian Constitution (1998) - has also been made. This will be completed beyond project
closure.
*   The institutional framework was restructured and capacities were strengthened according to best
practice to deal with the functions of a modem State as a regulator of the sector activities (mining
and environmental permits) and provider of basic infornation infrastructure. The role of the State
as the owner and operator of mines has been discontinued. The restructuring also meant a
rationalization of personnel from about 240 to 120 persons.
*   The technical components achieved the initial objectives in a very satisfactory way, including the
development of environmental monitoring capacity, the provision of geo-scientific informnation and
multi-sector data bases, sector management systems for mining concessions and Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIAs) and improvement of artisanal and small scale mining conditions (see
text box 3).
Though all specific project objectives could be achieved, the overall outcomes, more ambitious and less
subject to government or project control, would need continued efforts beyond project closure to be
fulfilled. The anticipated increase of mining production and diversification were not achieved by year 2000.
However, until project mid-term (1997), exploration activities had been growing significantly and an
increase in formal ASM gold production from about I to 7 t!yr could be observed. But exploration efforts
for larger projects did not mature into the development of industrial operations before the onset of the
downward worldwide mining trend, which unfortunately coincided with particularly severe national
- 6 -



economic and political difficulties, without mentioning the occurrence of natural disasters such as the El
Nifio phenomenon in 1998. The situation seems now to be improving again, with the return of major
mining companies and a more favorable economic situation. Still, a few years will be necessary to see
whether the mining sector develops according to expectations and contribute to improved socio-economic
conditions of local communities as well as to the national economy.
Regarding environment, conditions have been set to provide an adequate monitoring of the sector
performance and enforcement of regulations, both for large and small scale mining. The project reduced
ASM-related contamination, increased environmental awareness among stakeholders and miners, and
increased environmental management capacity of small-scale miners and the govermment (see section 4.2
and text box 3).
4.2 Outputs by components:
(A) Policy Management
Legal framework. The project paid significant attention to the modemization and improvement of the sector
legal framework. The existing Mining Law (Law 126) was prepared with the support of the Bank during
project preparation and passed in 1991. During implementation, three regulations of the existing Mining
Law, namely, (a) General Regulations; (b) Health and Safety Regulations; and (c) Environmental
Regulations were prepared and approved by the Executive. A draft new Mining Law, focusing particularly
on fiscal, environmental and social aspects, as well as on improved mining rights security of tenure was
prepared and was subjected to an open and broad consultation process. It was presented to Congress in the
midst of general political difficulties and was not debated. Finally, most of the elements of the draft Law
were incorporated in an amendment to the Mining Law and included in the so-called "Trolle II" package,
passed by Congress in August 2000.
Institutional Strengthening: The institutional reform went through a process of varying political support
during project implementation, depending on the commitment of the successive governments, but regained a
positive and decisive momentum from late 1998 until the end of the project. It resulted in: (a) designing
modernized mandates, new set-up and functions regarding the management of mining rights and
environmental permits as well as the development of the geological information infrastructure; (b) passing
of necessary regulations or decrees to establish the reformed framework; (c) elimination of corporate
functions of the CODIGEM; (d) rationalization of personnel; (e) establishment of procedures; (f)
preparation of operation manuals and training and (g) provision of modem infrastructure. The new set of
sector entities - including the National Mining Directorate (DINAMI) and its regional, decentralized
representations, the Environmental Mining Unit (UAM) and the National Geological Directorate
(DINAGE), all under SSM - was operative by the end of 1999. Through the Ley Trolle II amendment, a
mechanism providing reliable funding (a percentage of land fees) to sustain in the long term core functions
of the public mining institutions was passed.
(B) Policy Implementation
The main outputs include:
Environmental Management:
(a) Environmental base lines studies in mining areas of Southem Ecuador were completed and results were
published and presented at workshops and seminars; an environmental monitoring network and
environmental information system were developed which would permit to monitor properly the sector
environmental performance.
(b) Building of dams to contain tailings and other works to improve environmental conditions were
completed and/or under implementation with the participation of producers in a pilot mining area near the
- 7 -



southwestem coast of Ecuador, where risks and risk perception to impact other important economic
activities (shrimps, bananas) are significant.
(c) An environmental management master plan was completed in the Portovelo-Zaruma area to define
measures to contain contamination affecting downstream economic activities, including across the
Peruvian border.
Land Use Planning and Management
The sustainable use of mineral resource requires that areas of mineral potential are
evaluated and managed in the context of existing and alternative land-use options,
integrating social, environmental, cultural and economic factors. One of the important
achievements of PRODEMINCA was therefore to provide tools for efficient and
transparent land-use planning and management. Such tools include:
. Mining cadastre and management of property rights. The establishment under
the project of an efficient mining cadastre - including the regulatory, institutional
and technological aspects -, with clear rules, is a key factor to attract and sustain
mining investments, to monitor sector activities and optimize the sector contribution
to regional development. The granting of mining titles, founded on transparent
procedures and on unequivocal location and limits of mineral properties, guarantees
the security of tenure for investors. Also, through its display on internet
(hHtp://www.mineriaecuador.com), it allows the government administration, as well
as communities, to foresee and mitigate potential conflicts between mineral
resources exploitation and other land-uses, including conservation of protected
areas.
* Geo-scientific information infrastructure. The availability of strategic information
with respect to mineral resources constitutes an important mandate of a modern
State, through a national Geological Survey Organization. The Government of
Ecuador and the World Bank has long recognized the importance of a Geological
Survey as an "enabler" to provide the required data to make well-informed decisions
regarding sustainable land and resource use. PRODEMINCA allocated funds to
strengthen the Ecuadorian Directorate of Geology (DINAGE), to develop the
national multi-disciplinary geoscientific data base, to set up a related information
system, and publish and disseminate the information through maps, books,
workshops and conferences. The availability to all stakeholders of modem and
reliable geo-scientific data enhance the capacity not only to assess and manage
mineral resources, but is also applicable to agriculture, forestry, natural hazards,
environmental and health risk analysis, conservation and land-use planning.
Text Box 2
Geological Information Infrastructure:
(d) 100% of the planned regional geological, geochemical, geophysical and known ore districts maps,
descriptions and data bases were generated and published until June 2000. These state-of-the-art maps and
data bases are utilized for land-use planning and management as explained in Text Boxes land 2.
(e) A series of books and brochures have been published (see annex 7) and workshops organized to inform
civil society organizations, universities and schools and the public at large on the potential uses of the
geo-information in relation to development and land use management.
(f) In response to the concem of stakeholders on the use of geodata (see below), a fonnal system to
monitor the use of such data has been put in place, which would function beyond project closure.
In December 1999, a complaint was filed with the World Bank Inspection Panel by two Ecuadorian
environmental NGOs against the geological thematic mapping activities in and around a protected area in
Northem Ecuador (see section 10). The complaint asserted that the local communities were likely to suffer
harm as a consequence of this work and of the related Bank failures and omissions in the design and
supervision of the project. Specifically they claimed that the development of mining activities in the area
- 8 -



would prevent local communities from continuing to work in their traditional agricultural and cattle
breeding activities, and that the project would have a destructive impact on critical natural habitats,
threatening protected natural reserves and endangered species. An investigation was subsequently initiated
in May 2000 by the Bank's Inspection Panel which, while identifying shortcomings in the project EA
preparation, concluded that thematic mapping was environmentally neutral. This process led also to
indirect positive outcomes, such as the statement of a clearer definition of information policy by the
Govemement (mainly MEM and ME), and an increased awareness by public authorities on the need to
improve consultation and participatory processes involving local communities in relation to the
development of mining operations. Activities in that sense have been initiated and will continue beyond
project closure, with the support of the Bank, including the development of guidelines related to
relationships with communities as well as monitoring by environmental NGOs of the use of geological data
in relation to activities in protected areas.
Information and management Systems:
(g) A sector Geological Information System (GIS) and related data bases were developed and are
operational.
(h) A computerized Mining Cadastre Administration System (SADMIN) was developed and is operational
in all DINAMI's central and regional offices.The information, updated daily, is available on intemet at
http://www.mineriaecuador.com. One output of particular interest is a map showing the distribution of
mining concessions and of protected areas. SADMIN is linked to the environmental data bases (see below).
(i) A computerized information and management system related to environmental permits and
environmental baseline data.
(j) An Inter-ministerial Decree between MEM and ME defines an Information Policy regulating the
distribution and use of information.
Assistance to Artisanal and Small-scale Mining:
(k) Achievements include complete formalization of the sector, improved managerial, technical and
environmental performance of small-scal miners and reduced contamination. (See Text Box 3).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Formal net present value or economic rate of return are not appropriate measurements for this technical
assistance project since it was never directly linked to an investment project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
-9-



An Integrated Approach to Improve Artisanal and Small Scale Mining:
The Ecuador Case
Artisanal or Small Scale Mining is an activity largely driven by poverty in combination with other socio-
economic factors (e.g. climatic events affecting agriculture, commodity prices and others). It is typically
practiced in marginalized and remote rural areas by poorly educated people with little other employment
alternatives. Today, an estimated 13 million people in about 30 countries across the world are small
scale/artisanal miners, with about 80 million to 100 million people depending on such mining for their
livelihood. Miners and their families expose themselves to harsh working conditions for minimal income
in a high risk context, endangering their health as well as often the surrounding environment. Conflicts
with surrounding communities are frequent. Much of the actual economic potential is lost due to the
absence of a legal or fiscal framework for small scale mining and due to rudimentary production,
processing and marketing techniques. An artisanal mining boom in hard rock gold involved more than
50,000 miners in the southern regions of Ecuador during the 1980s, which, by the early 90's, had
caused considerable damages affecting the environmental and social situation of the miners and the
communities living around.. Building on the lessons of a workshop held at the World Bank in May 1995,
the PRODEMINCA project decided to shift from an originally mainly technical approach towards a fully
integrated program, with the active participation of the miners themselves and of local communities,
addressing the environmental and social problem, including migration and gender issues. The project
made a significant contribution to:
*  Largely formalizing the activity: 166 associations of the 169 groups existing before 1995 have now
been granted a legal title and land invasions by small scale miners did not occur during the last
years.
*  Developing sustainable remedial measures to limit the environmental degradation caused by small
scale mining, controlling the occupational and toxicological problems related to mining, including for
example, building of a pound collecting the tailings of 22 of the existing 50 ASM plants upstream the
Ponce Enriquez village, instead of discharging them in the rver; improvement of metallurgical
processes: about 40% of plants are now using the more effective cyanidation process; introduction
of gravimetric devices in most operations; reduction of mercury use (for example there is an
estimated use of 1 to 2 kg of Hg per recovered kg of Au, instead of an estimate of 8kgHg per kgAu
in Pew); development of local equipment (e.g. retort); re-forestation and other works; training in
safety and occupational health; building of a health center specialized in mining originated diseases.
*  Facilitating the organization (including the establishment of an ASM  Chamber of Mines),
management and technological training of small scale miners, supporting the establishment of
sector associations and small enterprises, with the view to up-grading the efficiency and
performance of the sector.
*  Involving local communities in the monitoring of environmental and socio-economic impacts from
mining (e.g. creation of community and miners environmental committees).
* Facilitating the development of altemative economic activities.
The project was also instrumental in setting up a network among NGOs, other agencies working on
small scale mining and government authorities with a view to taking a systematic and collaborative
approach in addressing the issues. (Adapted from R. Hoffner, 2000, SES final report).
Text Box 3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was substantial. The mandates, responsibilities and
functions of the different public mining institutions (PMIs) in charge of sector management have been
modemized and clearly defined (including within the Mining Law, its amendment and regulations). They
now correspond to the role of a modem State as a regulator of the activity. The operating functions which
remained in the 1991 Law have been eliminated (amendment to the Law, 2000). Mining areas which were
under the control of the State were being released at project closure.
The process of institutional reform lost momentum during the period August 1996 to August 1998, due to
- 10-



weaker political support. However, commitment under the subsequent administrations regained strength
and consistent efforts were made to achieve the reform, modernization and sustainability of the PMIs (see
section 4.2, paragraph on Institutional Strengthening above). These developments embraced international
best practice and were designed to fit the specificities of the Ecuadorian mining sector in terms of functions,
size, capacities including a personnel rationalization from 240 to 120) through: (a) both formal and
on-the-job training; (b) infrastructure remodeling and rehabilitation of offices; (c) acquisition of modern
equipment (e.g. installation of GPS base stations over the country) and establishment of computerized
information and management systems; and (d) decentralization - strengthening of regional offices for
administration of mining rights and environmental monitoring. Though the institutional reform process
started late in the project life, the objectives could be achieved through an extension to the loan closing date
which was specifically designed to this effect.
The institutional developments which impacted the entire mining sector were the modemization of the
Subsecretariat of Mines (SSM), as head of sector and responsible for sector policy and performance
monitoring. Under SSM, the Environmental Mining Unit (UAM) was created, responsible for the
evaluation of EIAs, administration of environmental permits and monitoring of environmental performance,
as an interface between the mining operators, D1NAPA and the Ministry of Environment. The National
and Regional Directorates of Mines (DINAMI), responsible for the administration of mining rights, was
modernized. CODIGEM was restructured as: (i) the National Directorate of Geology (DINAGE),
responsible for the development and diffusion of the national geo-scientific information data base; and (ii)
Mining Information System Unit (USSIM) which serves all PMIs and is responsible for the maintenance
and updating of the information and management systems, including the intranet as well as the internet
interfaces.
On the negative side, civil service conditions, which apply to the overall State administration, could not be
improved and this might affect the continuity of services of staff who have been trained under the project
and quality of staff to be recruited in the future. Efforts were made to include the PMIs as a pilot into the
Modernization of the State T.A. Project (MOSTA). However, such initiatives did not yet result in a change
at the Government level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Steep decline of commodity prices in 1998, which made investment in mining activities in Ecuador no
more attractive to major exploration companies, was a major factor affecting project implementation.
Likewise, lack of financing resulting from the Bre-X scandal in Indonesia and fallout of the East Asian
crisis during 1997-98, made it difficult for many "junior" exploration companies to conduct mining
activities in emerging countries such as Ecuador.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Because of initial delays, including the setting up of a proper project implemention unit, the loan became
effective only in July 1994, with a delay of about nine months. The project had a slow start also because of
the need to finalize cofinancing arrangements with the DFID and SIDA for the environmental monitoring
and control components.
During the period August 1996 to February 1997, disagreements over project implementation strategy and
political interference in project management also put the project on hold. There was a slow-down in
disbursements and a build-up in disbursement lag due to resurgence of frequent political interference and
uncertainties. From mid-1996 to end-1998, recurrent changes of governmental and sector authorities, with
- 11 -



the corresponding variations in identification with project objectives, resulted in a lack of commitment to
institutional restructuring, which adversely affected the implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of cooperation from National Directorate of Environmental Protection (DINAPA) to the project was a
factor which delayed start up of environmental component activities. While DINAPA was allocating more
resources to hydrocarbon and electricity subsectors, mining sector was almost neglected and deprived of
human and financial resources. However, halfway through the project (1997), with the arrival of a new
team at DINAPA, the Bank could start dialogue with them to finalize environmental regulation and start
work of the institutional reform..
CODIGEM, on the other hand, did not want to give up its corporate functions. It was more interested to
focus on mining activities and exploration rather than in geological activities and consequently, it was
reluctant to release mining properties right. CODIGEM did not also participate actively with BGS in the
mapping activities. Until its transformation as DINAGE in 1999, CODIGEM's lack of identification with
project objectives affected project implementation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project executed at closure amounted to US$20.55 million. This is about US$3.45
(-14.4%) million less than the US$24.0 million estimated in the MOP. The Bank's Loan amount was
reduced by $3 million from $14 million to $ 11 million through a partial cancelation in November 1998, in
view of the expected closure of the project on June 30, 1999, and delays in the institutional reform process
and in the implementation of important works such as an airborne geophysical survey and building of
tailings dams. However, all project objectives could be achieved through subsequent extension to the loan
closing date and reduced implementation costs, including: (i) lower cost than originally estimated for the
aerial survey; (ii) selection of a different approach to finance the construction of tailings dams and other
environmental remediation works; and (iii) more extensive contracting of national consultants, instead of
international ones as originally planned, (particularly regarding the legal and institutional reform process as
well as the environmental and assistance to small-scale miners activities and others).
The availability and delays in obtaining counterpart funds has been a problem during most the project life,
particularly during the Bucaram and Alarcon administrations. While this resulted in implementations
delays, this difficulty did not endangered project activities. In addition, a few initiatives mitigated this
problem, including a pro-active support from the team under the Swedish grant, which helped to bridge
gaps in critical periods, particularly at the early stages of the project. And, considering the importance of
the social components of the project as well as the particularly severe national economic crisis at this
moment, an amendment was processed in September 1999 to reduce the percentage of the govenmment
contribution (as reflected in Annex 2) and allowed a smoother implementation during the final stage of the
project. Consequently, fund flows problems did not significantly alter project implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
By virtue of reforms in the Mining Law, the sector institutions had the access to dedicated funding which
will enable to achieve in the long term the project objectives, including sector management capacity, as well
as maintain and renovate the necessary infrastructure established under the project. Restructured
institutions with specific roles and without corporate functions have improved the systems and procedures.
It is estimated that while the income generated through the payment of land fees has gone up by more than
- 12-



one million dollar per year, expenses have been reduced by more than $2 million dollars in 1999 and by
more than $800,000 in 2000. The sustainability is also strengthened as a result of the training imparted to
the institutional staff under the project, as well as by legalizing about 98% of the small-scale miners and
artisans and bringing them under the formal system.
If there would be sufficient mining activities going on in Ecuador, DINAGE, DINAMI, and the Mining
Environment Unit (UAM) will derive necessary resources from mining concessions, service fees, and state
financing, which would ensure their sustainability. The sustainability will also remain highly dependent on
the prices for mineral conmnodities on intemational markets. Increased participation of local communities,
especially for environmental monitoring, is also an important factor for ensuring sustainability. However,
sustainability could be affected if the current economic and fiscal crisis gets worse.
In addition, to fully achieve sustainability of the mining sector in the long range, there is a need to complete
the design and implement mechanisms ensuring participation of local communities in mining development.
Activities related to this objective have been initiated under the project but would likely need further
support. Also, to take full advantage of geo-scientific, mining and environmental information and promote
a responsible use of it, there is a need to continue (i) linking of information and management systems
between sectors, principally between the MEM and the Ministry of Environment; (ii) monitoring the use of
geological and mining data; and (iii) informing users at a national level and promote awareness regarding
the responsible management of the data. In addition, considering the increasing political decentralization
taking place in Ecuador, an adequate cooperation needes be established between the ME, SSM and local
govemements (municipios and provincial councils) to maintain consistent environmental norms at all levels.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The successful transition to regular operations is facilitated by the fact that the reformed PMIs and the
management systems were operational at project closure and the legal framework, through the 2000
amendment to the Mining Law, includes the allocation of funding from the annual land fees to surface and
mining rights for the operation of the PMIs core functions. However, political stability and overall
improvement of civil service rules are crucial factors to ensure the sustainability of the project outcomes.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was in general satisfactory. It was consistent
with the Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy for Ecuador. The Bank was
proactive in initiating the dialogue with the Govermment, cofinanciers and the MEM for the sector reform.
The Bank had a good skill mix, and had a good working relationship with the Borrower. The project
preparation was also well organized, systematic, and satisfactory. During the project appraisal, the Bank
assessed the project's risks and benefits and they were highlighted in the project documentation. However,
considering the project was a "A" environmental category, the project would have benefited of a more
robust and expanded EA process.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the six years of
project implementation, there were 28 supervision missions, about 4.5 missions per year. As stated in the
Inspection Panel report summarizing the findings of its investigation on the mapping component of the
project (see section 10), "the Panel found that frequent missions were undertaken and that there was
- 13-



considerable follow up by the Bank on outstanding issues.Moreover, it appears that the composition and
scope of the missions evolved with Project requirements". The Bank's supervision teams included mining
engineers and specialists in mining sector, energy economics, environment, operations, anthropology,
sociology, and law. They worked closely with the Government, cofinanciers, stakeholders, and the
implementing agencies and their working relationship was cordial and productive. Outside consultants were
used for specific aspects of certain project components, especially in environmental aspects of the project.
Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted. The Bank provided comments to the studies
conducted under the project. The Form 590s and Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation.
Throughout the implementation of the project, consultation meetings, seminars, presentations and other
activities were organized for Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs), local communities, and the public at
large. These events in general were useful to convey project objectives, activities and results. In addition, if
project activities concerned a particular community, the local authorities were fully apprised as, for
instance, was the case in the Intag region, where meetings were held with the mayor of Cotacachi in March
1998 and with the population of the Intag area at a popular assembly in April 1998.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project preparation which started in 1989 was finalized only in 1993. During these four years, the
Government commitment fluctuated with the frequent changes in sector Minister and Undersecretaries, as
well as with the change in Government Administration in 1992. While the project received strong
commitment during 1989-91, as demonstrated by the preparation and passing of a new Mining Law (Ley
126), and again in 1993, the commitment was lacking during 1992 and most of 1993. However, the
government officials and staff of implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continual basis throughout preparation period.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government changed five times during project implementation and this situation affected both
commitment and performance. From 1994 to 1996, the authorities were fully committed to the project and
its mining development strategy was consistent with the project objectives. The modified Mining Law, the
Health and Safety and the Environmental regulations for mining activities were ready by the end of this
period (August 1996).
During the period 8/1996 to 2/1997, the government was only partly supportive of the project objectives.
For example, while not opposed to private sector involvement in mining sector, it reversed the process of
release of areas controlled by CODIGEM, initiated under the previous period. With respect to
implementation objectives, it was less interested in long-term development measures, such as institutional
capacity building. Instead, it was more keen on meeting immediate and short-term objectives, for example
the building of tailings dams. From February 1997 and until August 1998, the Government commitment to
the project objectives was restated and progress in reforming the legal framework were made. In August
1998, a strongly committed team was appointed to manage the sector and more decisive actions to achieve
the project objectives were initiated. This team, with minor changes, and overall commitment were
maintained until project closure, albeit with a somewhat lesser commitment towards environment which did
- 14-



not, however, translate in reversing legal and institutional progress within this field.
In general, except during the 8/1996 to 2/1997 period, despite the difficult economic, political and social
conditions, the Government has shown resolution and commitment in putting through the institutional and
legislative reforms contemplated under the project. The Government also placed a high priority on
strengthening mechanisms and guidelines for consultation processes with local communities. Building on
the consultation requirements of the environmental regulations for mining activities (September 1997), the
Government designed a program to broaden the scope of the process, including socioeconomic and cultural
aspects, design mechanisms and guidelines and support the systematic implementation of consultation and
information processes. This is expected to contribute to further strengthen the sustainability and the
integration with local communities of mining in Ecuador, and provide useful lessons and experience for
other sectors.
Compliance with some of the loan covenants were affected for sometime by delays in privatizing Portovelo
mine and releasing CODIGEM-held mineral areas to private investors. There were also initial problems
regarding persistent shortfalls of government counterpart funds, logistical support, and physical resources
required for project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The project was identified as risky in view of the lack of consistency in commitment at the MEM to sector
reforms during the 1996 to 1998 period. During this time, many project-related issues were caused by the
MEM's Mining Subsecretariat's inadequate policy coordination and not fully open attitude toward public
discussion and consultation with stakeholders.
Two of the implementing agencies also demonstrated weak commitment to the project objectives which
contributed to implementation delays and uncertainties. DINAGE was reluctant to concentrate on its
geological survey role and to give up any corporate functions. DINAPA, which had continued to be the
weakest project entity, played a more active role in project implementation after the mid-term review; and
supported the creation of the sector Environmental Unit (see Section 4.5).
The Govemment had a good project coordination unit and the day to day implementation of the project
was relatively smooth. The PCU dealt with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in
maintaining proper records of the project. During the entire implementation period, there were only two
project coordinators (1994-1995 and 1995-2000) and this ensured stability at PCU. In the initial stages of
the project, PCU's performance was satisfactory in administrative matters, but was not fully satisfactory
in matters related to (a) the implementation of the more complex institutional reform, requiring
inter-institutional cooperation and multi-disciplinary approach, partly because of weaknesses of institutions
primarily responsible for these tasks; (b) selection and monitoring of consultants, partly because of
pressures exerted by government agencies to hire specific individuals who were not fully committed to the
project objectives; and (c) project accounting. However, based on the recommendations made under the
mid-term review, these deficiencies were subsequently addressed in a very satisfactory manner and the
PCU, in close coordination with the SSM and MEM and functioning as an interface between all project
stakeholders, played a proactive and critical role to achieve the projects objectives and their sustainability.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Sector development should be part of an overall political and economic reform. Beyond
- 15-



commitment of sector authorities, an important risk to assess during project preparation and
implementation is the consistent integration of sector development within an overall economic reform,
and the continued political support to implement the needed legal and institutional changes. In Ecuador,
sector reform has been successful, but has not -yet - fully achieved its foreseen outcome in term of
sector foreign investment and related growth indicators. This is due partly to the perception investors
have regarding political stability and govemment overall commitment to economic opening. Indeed, the
evolution of this situation through time may have been difficult to assess at project preparation, and has
also varied strongly during implementation. Improved coordination between Bank's projects might help
to facilitate dialogue with and leverage on the Government. This applies as well to cross-sectoral
issues, for instance regarding civil service reform, infrastructure and, in particular, regarding the set up
of umbrella and sector environmental management agencies.
*   Integral approach to sector development. The Ecuador Mining TA provides another good example
of the importance to approach sector reform in an integrated, instead of a piecemeal way. For instance,
the demonstration of the country mineral endowment through the publication of mineral information
would be of little use for sector growth without the development of an enabling legal and institutional
environment for sector investment and of institutions in capacity to properly administer mining rights
and monitor environmental performance. This approach applies as well at the sub-component level, as
illustrated in text boxes I and 2 in the case of the development of the mining cadastre and assistance to
small-scale mining, respectively. The coordination with the Government and with co-financing agencies
(SIDA and DFID) has been particularly useful in that sense to ensure the success of the project..
*   Communication, consultation and stakeholders participation. The preparation and implementation
of mining TA programs require today the development of a consistent social strategy. Sector reform
technical assistance projects and outcomes may be perceived by govenmnent authorities and by Bank
staff - and other donor organizations - as of neutral character in terms of social and environmental
impacts, direct or indirect. The PRODEMINCA experience demonstrates that in the case of mining
TAs, and most likely of other extractive industries as well, such a perception may not be shared by the
civil society at large, particularly by indigenous or local communities, NGOs and other stakeholders
who might feel their values or resources are potentially threatened by a development process induced
by such projects. It is therefore critical to design and implement during project preparation and
implementation a more systematic social strategy, including improved information and consultation
participatory processes, which should be continued by the governmental sector authorities in the longer
term. The social strategy should include the definition of actions to be carried out jointly by
government authorities and civil society organizations. The ultimate goal would be to optimize
stakeholder participation and consensus with respect to sector development objectives and outcomes,
and consequently ensure a more sustainable and improved contribution of mining to society.
*   Geo-scientific information management. The geo-scientific information, as generated under the
project, represents a very valuable tool not only for sector development but also for land use and
related potential conflicts management. In that sense it is important at the project preparation stage to
define and identify (a) the type and characteristics of information which should reflect the public good
nature of the information to be generated and managed, as corresponds to the mandate of public
geological institutions (e.g. environmental, geological, geochemical and geophysical databases); (b) a
series of concrete and useful products to be generated for identified audiences, instead of general
"studies"; (c) channels to make these products openly and easily available to potential clients and to the
public in general under appropriate formats (open files, publications, including popular editions, CDs,
internet web sites) at a nominal cost, (d) activities to inform and train, at different levels, all potential
users on how to use the information and (e), activities to monitor the use of data which could be
misused.and cause negative social or environmental impacts (e.g. exploration in protected areas).
- 16-



Another important lesson from PRODEMINCA is that issues related to the generation and use of
geo-scientific data must be part of the project social strategy and consultation process.
*   Assistance to artisanal and small-scale mining. The project has been rich in lessons on how to
address artisanal and small-scale mining issues, demonstrating particularly the importance (i) to use an
integrated approach and (ii) to emphasize the socio-economic aspects related to the sub-sector
situation. The key lessons are summerized in Text Box 2 below.
*   Though the actual impact still need to be more systematically documented, the contribution of similar
integrated ASM activities to poverty alleviation and socio-economic improvement on populations in
peripheric mineral rich areas with few altemative economic options is important. With this purpose in
mind, the Bank, together with DFID, has recently taken the initiative to establish a Consultative Group
for Artisanal and Small Scale Mining (CASM) aiming at gathering and disseminating experiences
within this field and promote and coordinate amongst donors the development of integrated approach
projects. Many countries in the LAC, Africa, South Asia and other regions would certainly benefit of
such projects (see also http://casmsite.org/).
*   Capacity building and foreign vs. national consultant services.The involvement and balance of
foreign versus national expertise in project activities is an issue much debated with respect to TA
capacity building impact and sustainibility. Under the project, the involvement of long-term foreign
specialists, most of them funded by DFID and SIDA, has without any doubt contributed to
implementation stability and to introduce cutting edge methodologies and technologies. However, the
priority given to the incorporation of a much larger number of national consultants (both finns and
individuals) than originally envisaged has certainly helped to insert the project into the Ecuadorian
reality - a fact clearly demonstrated in the case of the small scale mining activities -, and will contribute
to the sustainibility of the project results. Particularly positive synergies between national and foreign
expertise have been developed within the fields of institutional reform, environmental management,
assistance to small-scale mining and set up of information systems. In that sense, the performance of
the team financed under the SIDA grant, and promoting a real participatory attitude, has to be
commended.
*   In addition, the cooperation with and involvement of technical departments of Ecuadorian universities
in several project activities - for example assistance to small-scale miners - and the organization of
courses sponsored by the project (i.a. the Mining Environmental Management one year post graduate
course organized at the EPN in Quito). While the sustainibility of these activities as such cannot be
garanteed in the long term, they had the benefit to expose the next generation of mining specialists in
Ecuador to modem concepts.
*   Commitment to institutional reform. Sectoral institutions and their staff need to develop a strong
commitment to reform and acquire a full sense of ownership and responsibility for the project. It is
therefore important to allocate at an early stage sufficient resources and time to convey to the
institutions staff the relevance of the project objectives to their sustainability through workshops,
consultations, staff training and exposing them to best practice and experience in countries in the
Region where reforms are further advanced. However, a vital pre-requisite is a full and sustained
commitment by government authorities.
*   Institutional strengthening and capacity building. Activities related to institutional reform and those
aiming at developing the institutions technical capacity need to be linked into common components,
instead of separate ones as under the PRODEMINCA case, in order to optimize synergies between the
two sets of modemization tasks. For example, a closer integration of the mapping components into
CODIGEM - later DINAGE - work program would probably have facilitated the reform of the
- 17-



institution as well as the smooth transfer of working methodology.
* Intensive monitoring and supervision are essential for sectoral reform TA project, especially when the
design is complex, counterpart institutions are weak, and political uncertainties or turmoil frequent.
Supervision should therefore be given the appropriate priority from inception and be maintained during
the project life. Beyond the follow-up of procurement, disbursement, legal and other administrative
matters related to project implementation, the Bank supervision must emphasize the appropriate
provision of advisory support in sectoral policies, legal/institutional framework, and technologies and
maintain a constant effort to dialogue with changing involved parties. In addition, to enhance
effectiveness, co-financiers should be closely involved in these efforts.
*   Trust could be established at an early stage and maintained during implementation between the Project
Coordinating Unit, most of the succesive govemments sector authorities, many stakeholders - e.g. small
scale miners - and the Bank's project team.This permitted to engage a constructive dialogue which
contributed to the reform success despite frequent political and economic turmoil. It also allowed to
implement procurement, disbursement and other procedures in a relatively smooth way under
sometimes challenging circumstances.
*   The project coordinating unit has played a key role in the success of the Project. Staff constituing a
relatively small team of 5 persons had been selected by the Govememnt through open competitive
procedures and on the basis of management and/or technical competence and experience, instead of
political allegiance or of partisans' agenda. More important maybe, the PCU demonstrated the capacity
to command professional respect from the succesive governments sector authorities and to maintain an
acceptable stability in project implementation and development objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agenci:
As described in more details in Annex 8, the Project has been successful in establishing sector conditions
conducive to private mining investments as well as an institutional and information framework permitting
an adequate development, monitoring and enforcement of regulations regarding mining activities from the
legal and environmental point of views. While the overall political and economic situation is slowly
recovering, after years of turmoil during project implementation, mining investments are picking up again,
as a result of the project achievements.
The social, environmental, legal and technical conditions in the artisanal and small-scale mining sub-sector
have also strongly improved compared with those which prevailed a decade ago. For example, 166 of 169
small-scale mining groups are now legalized and invasions of mining properties by illegal miners did not
occur during the last years; local community driven environmental committees have been established in twvo
important mining districts; the use of mercury is progressively replaced by better controlled cyanide
operations; and the build-up of improved containment facilities for tailings is spreading.
Constraints encountered were mainly related to the country instability during project implementation and
the varying grade of political support towards the legal and institutional reform, which could only be
completed during the final two years of project activities. In that sense, the stability of the project
coordination unit, as well as the continuous support of foreign consultants funded under Swedish and
British grants have contributed to the achievements of the objectives. An important lesson from the project
is the need to design and implement a social and communication strategy aimed at (a) a more
comprehensive participation of the community in relation to sector development; and (b) the inclusion of
better defined socio-economic components to improve the conditions in the artisanal and small-scale mining
sub-sector. Other lessons include: permanent staff (such as in components related to information systems,
environmental management and small-scale mining) rather than short term contract staff (e.g. under the
- 18-



geological mapping components) should act as counterparts to technical experts to ensure that capacity
building remains within the agencies; and national consultants should be hired as technical experts
whenever possible in order to enhance the sustainability of project activities at large within the country.
Sustainability of the sector institutions and their core functions could be strengthened under the reformed
framework, including the provision of adequate financial resources. However, this sustainability - as well
as a full development of the sector according to Ecuador mineral potential - will also depend in the future
on the continued national political and economic stability. The challenge now will be to sustain activities -
and, to identify sources of financing - to support the continuous improvement of (a) the environmental
performance of small-scale mining (e.g. the implementation of the environmental mitigation works in the
border area with Peru; and (b) relationships between the communities and mining development.
(b) Cojinanciers:
Comments received from DFID:
The ICR identifies, there seems to have been a significant delay following project implementation before
environmental and institutional development issues were tackled by either WB or DFID. Little seems to
have been done on these issues in the first 3 years of the project. Whilst this is in some measure due to
institutional issues in Ecuador at that time, with several changes of govemment occurring and the Ministry
of Environment being temporarily disbanded, neither WB or DFID appeared to be pro-active in tacking
these issues during the early stages of the project. A more pro-active approach was taken during the final 2
years of the project
Whilst it is true to say that the project now has had successful outcomes, the impacts could have been
further improved, particularly on the institutional development aspects, had more concerted action been
taken at the outset of the project rather than in the latter half of the project.
DFID supported the project by providing technical assistance for the implementation of the Geological
Information and Mapping (GIMP) component of the project. Although geological thematic mapping has a
myriad of uses, not least for baseline environmental conditions determination and water resources
development, thematic mapping has been perceived by a number of stakeholders as being wholly focused
on mineral resources mapping for mineral exploitation purposes. Whilst thematic mapping is not mineral
resource exploration, it does provide indicators which can be used to develop an exploration campaign.
Internally, until the last two years of the project, little consideration seems to have been given to
communication of non-minerals exploitation uses for thematic mapping data, with a focus being purely on
data collection and building the thematic maps and feeding information into the other technical components
(such the mining cadastre and geological website). Although this approach was in line with fulfilling the
terms of reference, in hindsight, such a narrow approach, which did not appear to address the concerns of
non-geoscience stakeholders, seems to have been misguided. This lack of proactive communication with
stakeholders has to some extent lead to the problems which resulted in the World Bank Inspection Panel
investigation. Although measures taken by WB to remedy this problem have been reactive, the work
carried out as a result of this reaction seems to have had very positive impacts.
This lack of stakeholder engagement has been a significant issue during the project, and appears to be the
reason why the PRODEMINCA project was subject to the World Bank Investigation Panel review
(initiated through representations to the World Bank by an environmental group. The project was cleared
by the Inspection Panel at the end of a full inspection. However, more pro-active engagement with
non-geoscience stakeholders during the project could have helped in avoiding the circumstances arising
which led to the investigation
The fornal (subsequently deternined to be unfoundded) complaint that lead to the inspection panel review
of the PRODEMINCA project highlights the need for projects and prograrmmes involving minerals to be
- 19 -



very carefully and pro-actively mananged. Whilst there is always vocal opposition to any intervention in
the minerals sector, principally due to misinformed and unrepresentative interantional campaigning NGOs,
there are potentially very significnat developemnt benefits from minerals projects. To avoid becoming
enmeshed in activist protests, projects must communicate effectively. Also, it is critically important that
environmental and social aspects are considered at the project design stage, and conditionallities are
enforced promptly (which did not appear to happen in this project).
There are a number of generic lessons from this project that should be considered in future geoscience
projects. These lessons are well established learning, and apply to development projects in general.
However, this project serves as a good case study of the importance of these general principles in ensuring
projects contribute to achieving DFID's strategic objectives.
*   Early and full consideration of environmental issues is needed in all mining and geoscience related
projects to avoid adverse impacts and negative stakeholder views. ToRs must reflect
environmental issues, and environmental conditionalities must be implemented early in projects
*   Wide and proactive communication with stakeholders, including those who may hold a negative
view to ensure an objective view of the project is maintained
*   Proactive communication between all parties to the project is needed to ensure conditionalities and
needs are being met, and to resolve issues early on
*   Visible results are required to engender a positive view of the project with stakeholders
*   Capacity building must be integral to projects with a technical focus to ensure that technology and
skills transfer can be used appropriately
*   Mechanisms for retaining staff trained by projects in the sector and public service must be
considered at design stage and implemented from the beginning of the project to mvoe towards
sustainability
Although the project received criticism on environmental issues, no adverse environmental impact from the
project is apparent on project completion. Overall the PRODEMINCA project (of which the GIMP is a
component) has had significant positive impacts and the GIMP component has achieved its purpose.
The sustainability question is one that needs examining. Whilst direct funding for the GSO does not appear
to be a priority, during the final monitoring mission, mechanisms for extra-budgetary funding and using
exploration revenue licence fees for funding the GSO as a type of QANGO, which would enable more
competitive salaries to be paid to staff were discussed. An evaluation of the impact of this, in the event that
these discussions move forward to reality, should be considered, as it may provide a useful model for
sustainability where central funding is difficult to obtain.
The small-scale mining component appears to have been a particularly successful intervention in this
difficult area. This component provide a valuable case study for successful techniques in the small-scale
mining sector in a Latin American context.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
On December 17, 1999, the World Bank Inspection Panel (IP) received a request for inspection from two
NGO's established in the Intag valley, in the northern part of the Western Cordillera. The complaint was
directed to the geological and thematic mapping component, carried out by DINAGE and the British
Geological Survey over the whole Western Cordillera area of Ecuador, and which included the survey of
the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve, located close to the valley (the survey of all protected areas of
- 20 -



this region were specifically included in the mapping program during appraisal). Among other claims
related to compliance with WB safeguard policies, the most important issue of the request was related to
the public release of the information and the negative impacts it would generate on the environment and the
community, as an unavoidable consequence of such release.
WB Management agreed with the findings of the IP as stated in their final report of February 2001, namely
that it was substantially in compliance with OPN 11.02 on Wildlands and OD 13.05 on Project
Supervision. With respect to Environmental Assessment, Management accepted the position stated in the
Panel report that a more expanded and robust EA concerning processing, geographical scope and baseline
data and consultation (OD 4.00, Annex A and OD 4.01) should have been undertaken during preparation.
With regard to the release of information, it was found that the geological and thematic mapping carried out
under the Project is ecologically neutral and thematic mapping is generally beneficial for the country, as it
increases its database of knowledge on its natural resources. It will also help identify areas that are
sensitive and that could be excluded from mining development. The information must be "carefully
managed so as not to generate adverse social and environmental consequences.." (for measures taken by the
GOE and the Bank in this regard, see section 4.2).
For details related to the IP investigation, please refer to the "Investigation Report on Ecuador Mining
Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project, Loan No. 3655-EC) (INSP/R2001-
1, February 23, 2001); and to the "Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the
Inspection Panel Investigation Report" (April 10, 2001).
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndIcator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR|                Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Increased private investment in mining.  Not applicable                 (i) Partially achieved. Investments increased
until start of economic and metal prices
recession (1997). Picking up in 2000.
(ii) More appropriate legal and regulatory                                  (ii) Achieved: Mining Law 126 and
framework                                                                    amendment enacted; General Mining
Regulations and amendment, Environmental
Regulations for Mining Activities and Health
and Safety Regulations for Mining Activities
approved.
(iii) Effective application and administration of                           (iii) Achieved. DINAMI and UAM are
legal/regulatory framework by public mining                                  operational
institutions
(iv) Enactment of environmental legal and                                   (iv) Enacted: see (ii). In addition: guidelines
regulatory framework in mining.                                              for relationships between mining projects and
communities under development.
(v) Improved environmental permitting and                                   (v) Achieved: staff of DINAMI and UAM,
control (incl. monitoring) by Govemment                                      including regional offices, trained;
authorities.                                                                 management systems and procedures
established and operational.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Institutional Strengthening        Not Applicable
(a) Designing new functions for management                                   Completed
of mining rights and environmental permits
(b) Passing necessary regulations/decrees to                                 Completed
establish required framework
(c) Elimination of corporate functions of                                    Completed
CODIGEM
(d) Rationalization of personnel                                             Completed
II. Technical Component
(a) Conducting environmental baseline                                        Completed
studies in mining areas of Southern Ecuador
(b) Building of dams to contain tailings                                     Completed
(c) Completing environmental management                                      Completed
master plan
(d) Publication of geological and geochemical                                Completed
maps
(e) Developing sector GIS                                                    Completed
(f) Developing a computerized Mining                                         Completed
Cadastre Administration System
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
I. Project Coordination                              0.80            1.26          157.5
2.1 Policy Management: MEM/SSM                       0.30            1.08           360
2.2 Policy Management: DINAMI                         1.00           0.90            90
2.3 Policy Management: DINAPA/UAM                    0.60            0.45            75
2.4 and 5 Policy Management: CODIGEM/DINAGE           0.70           0.43           61.4
3.1 Policy Implementation: Environmental Pollution and  3.00         2.42           80.7
Health Monitoring
3.2 Policy Implementation: Hazardous Mining Wastes    2.10           1.05             50
3.3 Pclicy Implementation: Geological Mapping         4.10           3.57           87.1
3.4 Policy Implementation: Thematic Mapping          2.80            3.74          133.6
3.5 Policy Implementation: Assessment of Ore Districts  1.70         1.12           65.1
3.6 Policy Implementation: Mining Information Systems  1.70          1.36             80
3.7 Policy Implementation: New Mining Cadastre       0.90            1.38          153.3
3.8 Policy Implementation: Small-scale Mining        2.00            1.79           89.5
Total Baseline Cost                                  21 70   |      20.55
Physical Contingencies                               2.30
Total Project Costs             24.00          20.55
Total Financing Required              24.00          20.55                   l
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      2.50                       1.30         0.20         4.00
(2.50)         ()          (1.00)        (0.00)      (3.50)
2. Goods                      2.30         0.50          0.00         0.00         2.80
(2.20)       (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (2.70)
3. Services                   6.00          1.20         0.00         7.60         14.80
(6.00)       (0.60)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (6.60)
4. lncr. Operating Costs      0.00         0.00          1.60         0.00         1.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.70)        (0.00)      (0.70)
5. Training and Education     0.00         0.00          0.50         0.30         0.80
Material                     (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)      (0.50)
6.                            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                      10.80         1.70         3.40          8.10        24.00
(10.70)       (1.10)        (2.20)       (0.00)       (14.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB           Other'        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        2.87           0.01          0.00           0.25          3.13
(2.44)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.44)
2. Goods                        2.02           0.10          0.00           0.10          2.22
(2.02)         (0.09)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (2.11)
3. Services                     4.70           0.60          0.15           6.30         11.75
(4.70)         (0.54)        (0.13)        (0.00)        (5.37)
4. lncr. Operating Costs        0.00           0.00          0.69           2.10          2.79
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.49)        (0.00)        (0.49)
5. Training and Education       0.00           0.00          0.61           0.05          0.66
Material                        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.59)        (0.00)        (0.59)
6.                              0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         9.59          0.71           1.45          8.80         20.55
(9.16)         (0.63)        (1.21)        (0.00)        (11.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Sub-component (in US$ million equivalent)
Perceniage Of Appraisal
Sub-component            Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Gout.     CoF.      Bank      Go%t.     CoF.     Bankl  Go% l. I CoF.
1. Project Coordination  0.85      0.25                 1.02      0.24              120.0  96.0
2.1 MEMISSM              0.30      0.05                 1.02      0.06              340.0  120.0
2.2 DINAMI                1.00     0.10                 0.82      0.09              82.0   90.0
2.3 DINAPA               0.40      0.05      0.20       0.33      0.02      0.10    82.5    40.0   50.0
2.4/5 CODIGEM            0.70      0.10                 0.39      0.05              55.7    50.0
3.1 Env. Monitoring       1.50     0.20      0.60       0.76      0.03      1.63    50.7    15.0  271.7
3.2 Hazardous Waste       1.40     0.20      0.70       0.69      0.01      0.35    49.3    5.0    50.0
3.3 Geological Mapping    1.75     0.25      2.50       0.74      0.04      2.79    42.3    16.0  111.6
3.4 Thematic Mapping      1.90     0.20       1.10      2.34      0.07      1.33    123.2   35.0  120.9
3.5 Ore Districts Assmt.  1.70     0.20                 1.12      0.00              65.9    0.0
3.6 M.I.S                 1.20     0.10      0.60       0.48      0.03      0.85    40.0    30.0  141.7
3.7 Mining Cadastre      0.50      0.05      0.40       0.73      0.05      0.60    146.0  100.0  150.0
3.8 Small-scale Mining    1.00     0.15       1.00      0.56      0.06      1.16    56.0    40.0  116.0
Total                    14.00      1.90     8.10      11.00      0.75      8.80    78.6    39.5  108.6
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/28-03/0, 1989            1   Mining Specialist
08/26-09/06, 1989           2   Mining Specialist, Mining Legal
Specialist
09/24-30, 1989              1   Mining Economist
10/10-15, 1989              1   Mining Economist
04/30-07/07, 1990           2   Mining Specialist, Mining
Economist
07/29-08/04, 1990           1   Mining Specialist
11/26-12/03, 1990           1   Mining Specialist
04/27-05/26, 1992           2   Operations Officer, Mining
Specialist
09/09-14, 1992              1   Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/30-12/17,                7   WB: Operations Officer,
1992                            Mining Economist,
Environmental Specialist,
Disbursement Specialist.
ODA: Economist,
Environmental Specialist.
SIDA: Mining Specialist.
05/25-26, 1993              1   Division Chief
Supervision
06/27-07/02,                 1  Operations Officer                 S            S
1994
11/15-17, 1994              2   Operations Officer, Economist      S            S
05/05-10, 1995              1   Mining Specialist                  S            S
06/12-22, 1995              2   Economist, Mining Specialist       U            S
08/07-10, 1995              1   Economist                          U            s
09/11-26, 1995              2   Economist, Mining Specialist       U            S
10/30-11/02, 1995           1   Mining Specialist                 U             S
02/20-03/01, 1996           4   Economist, Mining Specialist,      U            S
Energy Economist, Operations
Officer
04/29-05/03, 1996            1  Mining Specialist                  S            S
07/29-08/02, 1996           2   Energy Economist, Mining           S            S
Specialist
09/23-26, 1996               1  Mining Specialist                  S             S
10/18-26, 1996              6   WB: Energy Economist, Mining       S            S
Specialist. ODA: Environmental
and Mining Specialists; SIDA:
Project Officer and
Environmental Specialist.
03/31-04/05, 1997            1   Energy Economist                  S             S
- 26 -



05/09-16, 1997              3   Energy Economist, Mining          S            S
Specialist, Legal Specialist
06/16-20, 1997              2   Energy Economist, Mining          S            S
Specialist
10/03-10, 1997              2   Energy Economist, Mining          S            S
Specialist
11/10-14, 1997              6   Energy Economist, Mining          S            S
Specialist; ODA: 2 Mining
Specialist; SIDA: 2
Environmental Specialists.
03/10-13, 1998              2   Energy Economist, Mining          S            S
Specialist
09/07-11, 1998              1   Energy Specialist                 S            S
11/16-23, 1998              5   WB: Energy Economist, Mining      S            S
Specialist; DFID: Mining
Specialist; SIDA: Environmental
and Mining Specialists.
04/16-20, 1999              1   Mining Specialist                 S            S
04/23-25, 1999              1   Mining Economist                  S            S
06/21-29, 1999              1   Mining Specialist                 S            S
10/14-17, 1999              2   Mining Specialist, Social         S            S
Specialist
10/29-11/14, 1999           7   WB: Mining Specialist, 2 Social   S            S
Specialists; DFID: Mining
Specialist; SIDA: 2 Project
Officers and Environmental
Specialist.
06/06-17, 2000              6   Sector Manager, Mining            S            S
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist, 3 Social Specialists
ICR
08/29-09/06,                1   Mining Specialist
2000
10/29-11/02, 2000          3    Mining Specialist, 2 Social
Specialists
11/19-12/01, 2000          3    WB: Mining Specialist, 2 Social
Specialists; DFID:
Environmental and Mining
Specialists.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ 0OOO)
Identification/Preparation             48.7                      243.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                   20.9                      104.4
Supervision                             98.9                     494.6
ICR                                     9.6                         48
Total                                  178.2                     890.7
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
0 Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
E Financial                              O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
Cl Environmental                         O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction              OH    OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Gender                          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Other (Please specify)          O H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
L Private sector development             0 H  0 SU * M    0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M    0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
r Supervision                                       O HS    S    OQU   OHU
U Overall                                           OHS Os       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   Q HU
U Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s     0 U   0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum of the President for the Ecuador Mining Development and Environmental Control TA
Project, dated September 22, 1993 (Report No. P-5988-EC)
2. Environmental Assessment
3. Loan Agreement for the Ecuador Mining Development and Environmental Control TA Project, signed
October 20, 1993 (Loan 3655-EC)
4. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and PSRs
5. Project Quarterly Progress Reports;
6. Project Annual Audit Reports;
7. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project (ca. 200), including particularly (titles in italic
have been published; most of the others are available as open files at SSM):
1. Sector Legal and Institutional Reform (overall)
o   Reformas al Reglamento de la Ley de Mineria 126. SSM, June 1996
o   Fortalecimiento de las Instituciones Publicas del Sector Minero. Luis Bilbao, December 1996.
o   Estadistica Minera 1991-1996. Gregorio Roman, DINAMI, June 1998.
o   Diagnostico Institucional del Sector Minero de Ecuador y Recomendaciones para el Contenido
Institucional de la Nueva Ley de Mineria. 12C, December 1998.
o   Manual de Procedimientos y Catalogo de Funciones para la Subsecretaria de Minas con Base
en el Nuevo Modelo Institucional. Version Final de la Fase Conceptual. Maritza Rojas and
Yurina Zalumbide, October 1999.
o   Implementaci6n del Nuevo Modelo Institucional. Direcciones Regionales y Unidad de Soporte
al Sistema de Informacion Minera (USSIM). 12C, November 1999.
o   Evaluaci6n y Reforzamiento del Sector Minero. 12C, May 2000.
o   Reformas a la Ley de Mineria 126 (Ley para la Promocion de la Inversion y Participacion
Ciudadana). GOE, August 2000.
o   Ley de Mineria v Reglamentos. Version en ingles v espanol. SS'A, Juli 2001.
2. Sector Legal and Institutional Reform - Environmental Management
o   Resumen de las Disposiciones Legales e Institucionales Relacionadas a la Mineria y el Medio
Ambiente. Faith Halter (SES), August 1995.
o Reglamento de Salud y Seguridad Minera. SSM,..
O   Reglamento Ambientalpara las Actividades Mineras. SS.M, Septemtber 1997.
o   Evaluaci6n de la capacidad analitica de laboratorios nacionales. Consuelo Hemandez, Dinapa,
March 1998.
o   Propuesta de Desarrollo Institucional de la Direcci6n Ambiental Minera. Direcci6n Nacional
de Protecci6n Ambiental. Mark Kenber, Ftndacion Natura, May 1998.
3. Environmental Management and Monitoring
o   Exposure to mercury, lead and cadmium in miners in Ponce Enriquez, Portovelo/Zaruma and
Nambija in Ecuador. A preliminary report. Staffan Skerfving, SES, April 1995.
o   Caracterizaci6n de las zonas de Pijili, Ponce Enriquez, Santa Rosa y Portovelo. Anibal Vaca
et al., INAHMI, July 1996.
o   Diagn6sticos Ambientales de las ciudades de Portovelo y Zaruma. Santiago Espinoza, August
1996.
o   Viabilidad del Confinamiento, Neutralizaci6n y/o Destoxificaci6n de los Desechos Mineros,
Distrito Minero Bella Rica, Provincia de Azuay, Ecuador. Tom Lundgren, SES. October
1996.
o   Indicadores Biologicos de Contaminaci6n de la Mineria del Oro en Ecuador. Olof Sangsfors
and Lennart Lindestrom, SES/DINAPA, February 1997.
o   Memoria Tecnica de los trabajos ejecutados por Fundaci6n CENDA en la Regi6n de Ponce
- 30 -



Enriquez y Pijili. Fundacion CENDA, April 1997.
o   Estudio de prefactibilidad referente al confinarniento de los desechos mineros en el Distrito de
Ponce Enriquez. Bo Lundberg and Reidar Hoffner, SES, June 1997.
o   Estudio de Factibilidad y Disefio de las Obras para el Confinamiento de los Desechos de
Mineria. Informe de Fase I. Leoncio Galarza et al. September 1998.
o   La Mineria y La Comunidad. Resultados y conclusiones de la conferencia de mayo 1997 en
Quito. Gary MacMahon (editor), PRODEMINCA/BM, December 1998.
o   Homogeneizaci6n de la Influencia de "El Nifio" sobre las Precipitaciones de las Cuencas
Hidrograficas del Sector Minero comprendido entre Ponce Enriquez y Portovelo. Edison
Heredia et al., INAHMI, December 1998.
o   Plan Conceptual de Manejo de Desechos Mineros. Ricky Collins, SES, February 1999.
o   Monitoreo Ambiental de las Areas Mineras en el Sur de Ecuador. 1996-1998. SES/UAM,
April 1999.
o   Oro Limpio. Resumen y conclusiones del monitoreo ambiental en la zona Sur del Ecuador
(formato popular). PRODEMINCA/SES, April 1999.
o   Resultados de los Muestreos Bioacuaticos Complementarios en las Areas Mineras del Sur del
Ecuador. Olof Sangfords and Adriana Flachier, SES, May 1999.
o   Evaluaci6n Tecnica realizada en Areas Agricolas de Ponce Enriquez Afectadas por las
Actividades Mineras. Milton Carrasco and Adriana Flachier, June 1999.
o   Disefno de Obras Hidraulicas. Luis Cornejo et al. June 1999.
o   Trabajo en la Mineria del Oro, Exposici6n a Polvo Siliceo, Ruido y Metales Pesados y Salud
Ocupacional en Cuatro Areas del Ecuador. Raul Harari et al., June 1999.
o   Esquema de Gesti6n Ambiental Participativa para la Ejecuci6n y Mantenimiento de las Obras
de Mitigaci6n Ambiental en las Sociedades Mineras de Bella Rica y San Gerardo. Cecilia
Mantilla et al., September 1999.
o   Esquema de Manejo de Aguas (EMA). Luis Comejo, September 1999.
o   Manual de Operaci6n y Manejo del Agua en las Instalaciones Mineras. Luis Comejo, October
1999.
o   Plan de Obras a ejecutarse como Segunda Etapa del PMA. Luis Cornejo, October 1999.
o   Exposure to and Toxic Effects of Mercury in the Ecuador ian Gold Mining Industry. Lars
Gerhardsson et al, Lund University, October 1999
o   Sistematizaci6n del Plan de Capacitaci6n para los Comites de Gesti6n Ambiental de Shumiral
y Ponce Enriquez. Taller de Gesti6n Ambiental y Genero. Cecilia Mantilla et al., March 2000.
o   Medidas Ambientales Emergentes y el Establecimiento de un Plan Maestro Ambiental en el
Distrito Minero Portovelo-Zaruma y la Cuenca del Rio Puyango. Plan Maestro Ambiental.
Swedish Geological AB, April 2000.
o   El Proceso de Configuraci6n de la Gesti6n Ambiental Participativa en las Zonas Mineras de
Ponce Enriquez y Shumiral. Cecilia Mantilla et al. June 2000.
o   Curso de prevenci6n de las enfermedades ocupacionales en la mineria aurifera. Fernando
Carpio, August 2000.
o   La Salud de Nuestros Rios - Manual y Metodo Simple de Evaluacion de la Calidad de los
Rios. Adriana Flaschier, Ocotber 2000.
4. Geological Information Infrastructure
o   Geology of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 10 00' and 2 00' S. McCourt,
Duque and Pilatasig, CODIGEM/BGS, June 1997
o   Geology of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 20 00' and 30 00' S. Peter Dunkley
and Alina Gaibor, CODIGEM/BGS, June 1997
o   Geology of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 30 00' and 4 00' S.Warren T. Pratt,
Juan Figueroa and Bolivar Flores, June 1997.
- 31 -



o   Geology of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 0 00' and 10 00' S. R.Hughes and
R. Bermuidez, CODIGEM/BGS, June 1997.
o   Geochemical Reconnaissance Survey of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 2 00'
and 3 00' South. T M Williams, A. Gaibor and P.N. Dunkley, CODIGEM/BGS, November
1997.
o   Geochemical Reconnaissance Survey of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 3 00'
and 4 00' South. Williams, Gaibor and Dunkley. CODIGEM/BGS, June 1998.
o   Geochemical Reconnaissance Survey of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 10 00'
and 2 00' South. T M Williams, W. Castillo, E. Cruz and V. Acitimbay, CODIGEM/BGS,
June 1999.
o   Descripci6n Bioecol6gica y Socioecon6mica de los Distritos Mineros Estudiados por el
Subcomponente 3.5 de PRODEMINCA. Ruth Elena Ruiz et al., Fundacion Natura, April
2000.
o   Posiciones en tomo a la difusi6n de la Informaci6n Geoquimica generada por PRODEMINCA.
Informe Final.CEPLAES, April 2000.
o   Levantamiento Geofisico Aereo. Cordillera Occidental de los Andes Ecuatorianos. Informe
Final (versiones en ingles y espafiol). SIAL Geophysics, May 2000.
o   Geoscience in Integrated Resource Management. Volume 1: The Western Cordillera, Volume
2: Molleturo Protected Forest y Volume 3: Ecological Resreve Cotacachi-Cayapas.
PRODEMINCA/BGS, May 2000.
o   Geology of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between 000'and 100' N. Martin Boland et
al., DINAGE/BGS, June 2000.
o   Evaluacion de Distritos Mineros del Ecuador. Volumen 1. Potencial Minero Metalico y
Guias de Exploraci6n; Volumen 2: Dep6sitos Epitermales en la Cordillera Andina;
Volumen 3. Sulfuros Masivos Alojados en Volcanitas. Volumen 4. Depositos Porfidicos y
Epi-Mesotermales Relacionados con Intrusiones de las Cordilleras Occidental y Real.
Volumen 5: Dep6sitos Porfidicos y Epi-Mesotermales Relacionados con Intrusiones de la
Cordillera el Condor. Peter Pittfield et al., BGS. June 2000.
o   Manual de Exploracion de Depositos metaliferos en el Ecuador. peter Pittfield, BGS, June
2000.
o   Manual Tecnico Sistema GIMP (incluye CD con datos de GIS para aplicaci6n). Edgar Cruz,
DINAGE/BGS, June 2000.
o   Percepciones sobre la Informaci6n Geoquimica Generada por PRODEMINCA en la Zona de
Intag. CEPLAES, August 2000.
o   Breve Lexico Estratigrafico del Ecuador. Pablo Duque, October 2000.
o   Geochemical Reconnaissance Survey of the Cordillera Occidental of Ecuador between
000'and 1000' N. T.M. Williams et al., DINAGE/BGS, May 2001.
o   Geoquimica y Ambiente. T.M. Williams et al., Prodeminca, May 2001.
o   Mineria: realidades y perspectivas. PRODEMINCA, July 2001.
5. Management and Information Systems
o   Proyecto de Catastro Minero en Ecuador. Enrique Ortega, November 1995.
o   Documento de Planeamiento del Catastro Minero. F. Sarria, January 1996.
o   An Information Systems Strategy Scoping Study for Component Three of the Project to
Develop Mining And Control the Environment. Jeremy R.A. Giles, BGS, July 1996.
o   Catalogo de Informaci6n Tecnica. Martha Correa et al., CODIGEM/SES, May 1997.
o   Sistema de Administraci6n de los Derechos Mineros. Manual de Administraci6n del Sistema.
Luis Ofia, Marco Cazco, Juan Chamorro and Klas Lundquist, DINAMI/SES, December 1997.
o   SIGM - Informe Final. Krister Lindquist, SES, June 1999.
o   Manual de Administraci6n y Tecnico del Sistema de Administraci6n de Estudios Ambientales
- 32 -



Mineros. Washington Romero, UAM/SSM, November 1999.
o   Manual de Usuario del Sistema de Administraci6n de Estudios Ambientales Mineros.
Washington Romero, UAM/SSM, November 1999.
o   Formularios de Evaluacion de Impactos Ambientales Mineros y de Denuncias Ambientales
Mineras. Washington Romero, UAM/SSM, November 1999.
o Sistema de Registro y Notificaci6n de Enfermedades Mineras. Manual Tecnico y de
Administraci6n y Manual del Usuario. Juan Chamorro, SSM, November 1999.
o   GeoCampo. Base de Datos para Geologia de Campo. P. Duque, February 2000.
o   SIP. Sistema de Informaci6n de Proyectos (Estandares y Control de Calidad). P. Duque,
February 2000.
o   Manual de Normas y Diccionarios para Mapeo Digital (versi6n 2). P. Duque et al., February
2000.
o   Manual de Administraci6n. Sistema de Administraci6n Minera, SIM. Washington Rosero,
May 2000.
o   Manuales del Sistema de Informaci6n Geografica - Geol6gica - Minera. Manuales del
SIGEM. Tecservin Cia Ltda., May 2000.
o   Manual de Usuario. Interface SIP-SIGEM. Washington Rosero, June 2000.
O   Sistema de Administraci6n de los Derechos Mineros (SADMIN). Manual de Administraci6n
del Sistema y Manual de usuario. Luis Ofia and Juan Chamorro, DINAMI, June2000.
6. Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
o Preliminary proposal for a conceivable J/V agreement for a mining project in Ecuador. A.
Swartling, CODIGEM/SES, January 1995.
o Registro de plantas gravimetricas y de cianuraci6n en el area de Ponce Enriquez. B. Fagerberg,
CODIGEM/SES, June 1995.
o   Aspectos Sociol6gicos en la Mineria. A. Rundqvist, SES, June 1995.
O   Factibilidad de instalaci6n de un "Centro de Beneficio Mineral" en el area de Ponce Enriquez.
(Informe de Evaluaci6n). B. Fagerberg, SES, June 1995.
o   Investigaci6n. Relaci6n entre Pueblos Indigenas y Mineria Aurifera. Informe Final. Miguel
Carvajal, Natalia Wray and Rafael Mashinguiash, January 1996.
o   Investigaciones de laboratorio en muestras de mineral del area de Ponce Enriquez y evaluaci6n
de metodos para la eliminaci6n del proceso de amalgamaci6n. B. Fagerberg, SES, February
1996.
o   Catastro de sociedades mineras del Distrito Aurifero de Zaruma y Portovelo segun
coordenadas de localizaci6n territorial. N. Romero, May 1996.
o   Informe Final del Estudio Diagn6stico Socioecon6mico de Nambija. L. Pereira V. and Jaime
Espin D., May 1996.
o   Censo Minero de Zaruma y Portovelo. Memoria Tecnica. Universidad Central del Ecuador,
May 1996.
o   Estudio Socioecon6mico del Centro Minero Ponce Enriquez. Miguel Carvajal and Jose
Rivadeneira, May 1996.
o   Programa de capacitaci6n empresarial. Sector minero de San Gerardo. Provincia del Azuay.
Organizaci6n y administraci6n empresarial. F. Chango, October 1996.
o   Diagn6stico de la Mineria Artesanal de Oro en el Ecuador. Reidar Hoffner, Jorge Barragan,
Solange Izurieta and Alcides Sanchez, October 1996.
o   Investigaciones de Beneficio de Menas Auriferas de Ponce Enriquez para la eliminaci6n del
proceso de amalgamaci6n y mejoramiento en la recuperaci6n de oro. Bengt Fagerberg and Jose
Valencia, SES, April 1997.
o   Relacion entre pueblos indigenas y mineria aurifera. Miguel Carvajal et al., May 1997.
o   Perspectiva socioecon6mica de la Pequefia Mineria y la Mineria Artesanal (estudio de caso
- 33 -



de Nambija y Ponce Enriquez). Anders Rudqvist and Miguel Carvajal, May) 1997.
o   Inspecci6n tecnica y asesoria para la formulaci6n de recomendaciones preventivas ante el
fenomeno de El Nifio en areas mineras. L. Galarza et al., November 1997.
o   Documento de Apoyo para el Seminario-Taller sobre formulaci6n de Proyectos Sociales,
realizado entre el 8 y el 12 de diciembre de 1997. J.C. Cuellar, December 1997.
o   Censo Minero de Zaruma y Portovelo. SSM/PRODEMINCA, May 1998.
O   Estudio de canteras (6 voluimenes correspondientes a las provincias de Azuay, Cafar,
Chimborazo, Tungurahua, Bolivar y Loja). CODIGEM, July 1998.
o   Investigaciones de beneficio de menas auriferas de Los Ingleses y Muluncay. B. Fagerberg and
J. Valencia, SES, July 1998.
o   Curso de Seguridad Minera. W. Bonilla, August 1998.
o   Estudio Ambiental de las zonas de canteras (Diagn6stico Ambiental de explotacion de canteras
de materiales de construcci6n en la provincia del Guayas. Informe Ejecutivo). CODIGEM,
October 1998.
o   Procesamiento de Menas Auriferas en el Sur del Ecuador. B. Fagerberg and J. Valencia, SES,
November 1998.
o   Informe Final. Trabajo de Asistencia Tecnica a la Sociedad Jesus del Gran Poder. Escuela
Politecnica Nacional, June 1999.
o   Deslizamiento Area Minera "Fortuna". DINAGE, December 1999.
o   Estudio del Deslizamiento en la Parroquia San Francisco del Vergel, Cant6n Palanda,
Provincia de Zamora Chinchipe. DINAGE, December 1999.
o   Procesamiento de Menas Auriferas en el Sur del Ecuador - La Cianuuracion Industrial, 1ua
Alternativa a la Amalgamacion. Ximena Diaz, Ernesto de la Torre, Pedro Mantilla y
Antonio Bermeo, PRODEMINCA, November 2000.
8. Management Response to Request for Inspeztion Panel Review of Ecuador Mining Development and
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC). WB Management, January
2000.
9. Request for Inspection: Ecuador Mining Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 3655-EC). Inspection Panel, May 2000.
10. Investigation Report on Ecuador Mining Development and Enviromnental Control Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC). Report INSP/R2001-1), February 2001.
11. Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report.
WB Management, April 2001.
12. Borrower's Evaluation Report. MEM/SSM, July 2001.
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report
PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA PARA EL DESARROLLO MINERO Y SU CONTROL
AMBIENTAL EN ECUADOR (PRESTAMO BIRF 3655-EC)
Comentarios del Prestatario
1. Objetivos del Proyecto
1.1 Objetivos generales del proyecto
El proposito del Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica para el Desarrollo Minero y su Control Ambiental,
PRODEMINCA, fue:
a) atraer nueva inversi6n privada y apoyar un desarrollo sistematico para incrementar la producci6n
minera en el Ecuador cuidando el medio ambiente y las relaciones con las comunidades circundantes a
prospectos mineros; y,
b) detener y mitigar la degradaci6n del medioambiente que resulta del uso de tecnologia inadecuada por
parte de los mineros artesanales algunas operaciones mineras de pequenia escala en el Ecuador
1.2 Objetivos especiMicos del proyecto
Para lograr nuevas inversiones privadas en la mineria ecuatoriana y apoyar la producci6n de minerales en
condiciones amigables con la naturaleza y social y ambientalmente sostenibles se plante6:
* Un mejoramiento del marco legal e institucional, modemizando y fortaleciendo las entidades del sector
publico minero, a fin de mejorar e incrementar su capacidad de manejo del catastro minero, seguimiento y
monitoreo de las operaciones en sus aspectos tecnicos, fiscales y ambientales.
* Desarrollo de varios objetivos tecnicos, para establecer o incrementar la capacidad de monitoreo y
mitigaci6n de dafios ambientales por acci6n de cierta mineria de pequefia escala; para fortalecer la capacidad
de obtenci6n, manejo y difusi6n de informaci6n cartografica y geol6gica; para disponer de un catastro
minero y sistemas de informacion computarizados, y, para dar asistencia integral a los mineros de pequenia
escala
1.3. Cumplimiento de los objetivos de PRODEMINCA
Un enfoque integral y multidisciplinario
Si bien los objetivos del proyecto se han mantenido desde su inicio, el enfoque a cada uno de los aspectos
evolucion6 durante la implementaci6n, privilegiando intervenciones, metodologias y procesos
multidisciplinarios que integraron aspectos ambientales y sociales y permitieron una mayor participaci6n de
la sociedad civil y ong's.
En una pfimera etapa, esto se reflej6 en la preparaci6n de diagn6sticos socioecon6micos y ambientales en
varios subcomponentes, y posteriormente en el enfasis para impulsar soluciones integrales y participativas en
temas como salud ocupacional minera, remediaci6n ambiental y difusi6n de resultados.
Una descripci6n detallada de los principales logros del proyecto consta en varias publicaciones realizadas.
En las siguientes lineas los comentaremos solamente en forma breve:
Modernizacion del marco legal del sector. Al temnino del proyecto, el gobiemo del Ecuador (en adelante el
gobierno o el MEM), considera que cuenta con un marco legal adecuado y competitivo respecto a otros
paises que buscan recibir inversi6n minera en America Latina. Se logr6 mejorar el marco legal del sector,
- 35 -



generando mayor seguridad juridica a la inversi6n, mayores cuidados ambientales y comunitarios por parte
de los concesionarios mineros, y la eliminaci6n de areas para uso exclusivo del Estado. Se redactaron y
aprobaron:
a. Reformas a la Ley de Mineria, que entraron en vigencia entre agosto y diciembre de 2000, acogiendo
planteamientos como el titulo unico, que da seguridad a la concesi6n; la patente progresiva, que
disminuird la especulaci6n improductiva de 6reas, la eliminaci6n de las regalias, que permite mayor
competitividad y evita riesgos de corrupci6n, y la supresi6n de la inversi6n corporativa por parte del
estado, dejando la inversi6n de riesgo al sector privado. Estos fueron los principales postulados del
proyecto.
b. El nuevo Reglamento a la Ley de Mineria se dict6 en abril de 2001. Reformas al Reglamento de la
Ley de Mineria, se emitieron en dos ocasiones anteriores, estableciendo finalmente un adecuado
complemento a las nuevas disposiciones legales y agregando transparencia al proceso de otorgamiento
de areas mineras
c. Reglamento de Salud y Seguridad Minera; y,
d. Reglamento Ambiental para la Actividad Minera, cuya formulaci6n concertada fue la primera
experiencia participativa en propuestas legales en el Ecuador.
Durante el proyecto se prepararon varias versiones de una nueva Ley de Mineria, cuyos textos fueron
debatidos largamente con el parlamento y con actores sociales claves, sin lograr su aprobaci6n. Sin
embargo, las principales propuestas han sido recogidas en las reformas vigentes desde diciembre de 2000.
Con ello, puede considerarse que este objetivo ha sido cumplido muy satisfactoriamente y -salvo ligeras
modificaciones al reglamento ambiental- no se requeriran refonnas legales en un futuro cercano.
Instituciones P,tblicas Mineras. Se logr6 la transformaci6n y fortalecimiento de las instituciones puiblicas
mineras, acorde a principios modemos sobre el rol del estado como regulador y responsable del monitoreo de
la actividad minera. El sector estatal solamente realizara la investigaci6n geocientifica regional, a traves de
la recientemente creada Direcci6n Nacional de Geologia (DINAGE), que sustituy6 a la Corporaci6n de
Desarrollo e Investigaci6n Geol6gico Minero Metalurgica (CODIGEM); tambien se logr6 la reestructuraci6n
y fortalecimiento de la Direcci6n Nacional de Mineria (DINAMI) y sus oficinas regionales; asi como la
creaci6n de la Unidad Ambiental Minera (UAM). Los funcionarios recibieron capacitaci6n y preparaci6n
para sus nuevas funciones dentro de este nuevo marco institucional.
GestMn Ambiental Minera. La gesti6n ambiental debera ser multidisciplinaria, incluyendo aspectos como
condiciones ocupacionales y sociales, descentralizada y ejecutada con participaci6n de los gobiemos y
comunidades locales, bajo la politica y directrices del MEM. Para ello, se ha preparado a la Unidad
Ambiental Minera, responsable de la evaluaci6n y seguimiento de los Informes de Impacto Ambiental, y se
han logrado los siguientes resultados:
a. desarrollo y puesta en operaci6n de una red de monitoreo ambiental en el sur del pais, y amplia
difusi6n puiblica de sus resultados;
b. puesta en funcionamiento de un centro de salud ocupacional minera, en el distrito minero de Ponce
Enriquez
c. construcci6n de obras demostrativas de contencion y remediaci6n de la contaminaci6n en el distrito
minero de Ponce Enriquez;
d. apoyo al establecimiento de comites de gesti6n ambiental en el municipio de Pucara (distrito minero
de Ponce Enriquez);
e. preparaci6n de un plan maestro de gestion ambiental de la cuenca del rio Puyango afectada por el
- 36 -



distrito minero de Zaruna-Portovelo.
Mineria de pequenia escala. Durante el desarrollo del proyecto, y luego de un amplio debate y de diversas
experiencias a lo largo de seis anios con las organizaciones de pequefios mineros, se ha demostrado que
solamente un enfoque integrado, que incluya aspectos organizativos, legales, tecnicos, sociales y
ambientales, y procure incrementar la confianza de este sector con los organismos estatales, permite ordenar
y modemizar de manera sostenible la mineria de pequefia escala. Los resultados positivos logrados durante
el desarrollo del proyecto representan experiencias y lecciones valiosas que podran ser utilizadas tanto en el
Ecuador como en otros paises para mejorar las condiciones de este sector de la mineria, para superar la
informalidad, mejorar su rendimiento, reducir sus impactos ambientales y sociales negativos, e incorporarla
al sector de pequefia industria. Durante el proyecto, se ha logrado:
a. la legalizaci6n de la mayoria de asentamientos mineros de hecho, que existian en 1995 en mineria
aurifera (de 169, hoy solo quedan 3);
b. apoyar la creaci6n de asociaciones de pequefios mineros;
c. iniciar procesos de remediaci6n ambiental;
d. introducir tecnologias alternativas al uso de mercurio; y,
e. mejorar la relaci6n con las comunidades locales.
Informacion Geocientifica. Entre las actividades previstas en el proyecto, se incluia la recolecci6n de
informaci6n, producci6n y distribuci6n de mapas geol6gicos y bases de datos geoquimicos de un area de
36.000 km2 en la Cordillera Occidental de Los Andes. Este trabajo se realiz6 con apoyo del Servicio
Geol6gico BritAnico (BGS), y tecnicos ecuatorianos, tanto de DINAGE como independientes. El trabajo
supuso esfuerzos logisticos y tecnicos superiores a lo programado, sin embargo de lo cual se concluy6 en el
tiempo previsto, y con una calidad superior, ya que los mapas fueron publicados en escala 1:200.000
(inicialmente se previ6 hacerlo en 1:250.000), y se dispone de informaci6n digitalizada sobre geologia,
geoquimica (con un muestreo de sedimentos con densidad de 1 m/2.44 km2, mientras inicialmente se
esperaba 1/5 km2) y geofisica, asi como bases de datos multisectoriales que contribuiran a la planificaci6n
de uso de territorios en esta cordillera. La difusi6n de esta infornaci6n, que incluye zonas del patrimonio
nacional de areas naturales, se complementa con un sistema de monitoreo de la informaci6n que realizaran
los Ministerios de Ambiente y de Energia y Minas, con la colaboraci6n de dos de las mas prestigiosas ong's
ambientalistas: Fundaci6n Natura y CEDA, asi como con una publicaci6n sobre Geoquimica y Ambiente,
que resume los usos multidisciplinarios, principalmente relacionados a gesti6n de uso territorial y de aguas,
prevenciones ambientales, salud, infraestructura de caminos y obras civiles, riesgos naturales, de la
informaci6n tematica.
Se produjeron tambien estudios de alta calidad sobre varios tipos de dep6sitos minerales existentes en el
pais, en los que se sistematizan los principales modelos de yacimientos reconocidos. Este trabajo se resume
en un Manual de Exploraci6n, que incluye las principales condiciones legales, institucionales, tecnicas y
ambientales (esto ultimo con la cooperaci6n de Fundaci6n Natura) necesarias para realizar exploraci6n en el
pais.
Sistema de Informacion Minera. Al tennino del proyecto, debemos sefialar que el sector geol6gico minero
publico cuenta con una red de computaci6n que enlaza los sistemas ambientales, geol6gicos y de
administraci6n minera desarrollados en DINAMI y DINAGE, permitiendo la consulta tanto a funcionarios e
interesados, tanto del sector minero como ambiental o de otras entidades, mediante una red intranet y el
acceso de usuarios externos a traves de intemet. Nuestro parque informatico es uno de los mejores del sector
puiblico ecuatoriano, y es usado intensamente por funcionarios debidamente capacitados. La pagina web -
mineriaecuador. com - incrementa el numero de visitas y nos permite promocionar el sector especialmente
- 37 -



en otros paises.
Gestion de las concesiones minneras. Para garantizar la inversi6n minera y un adecuado monitoreo y control
del sector es imprescindible el funcionamiento transparente y eficiente de un Catastro Minero
computarizado. En el marco del Proyecto se estableci6 el Sistema de Administraci6n de Derechos Mineros
(SADMIN), para automatizar los tramites de otorgamiento, conservaci6n y extinci6n de derechos mineros,
aplicando las normas legales, la informaci6n de ubicaci6n geografica de las concesiones y sus restricciones
en areas protegidas. El SADMIN permite un control riguroso del proceso, reduciendo asi la discrecionalidad
e incrementando con ello la seguridad de los titulos. El sistema es accesible por internet (www.
mineriaecuador. com).
1.4. Modificaci6n de objetivos durante el transcurso del proyecto y fundamento de estos cambios
La formulaci6n inicial del proyecto tuvo suficiente claridad de objetivos, respecto al prop6sito general del
proyecto, y esto se mantuvo durante la ejecuci6n. Sin embargo, algunos mecanismos fueron modificados
durante el proyecto, siempre en el contexto del objetivo general.
Inicialmente, el proyecto suponia fortalecer la Direcci6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente, DINAMA y la
Corporaci6n de Desarrollo e Investigaci6n Geol6gico Minero Metaturgica, CODIGEM, las que, por efecto
del proyecto, han sido transformadas a Unidad Ambiental Minera, UAM, bajo la Direcci6n Nacional de
Mineria, DINAMI y Direcci6n Nacional de Geologia, DINAGE, desde marzo de 1999. Esta variaci6n en la
reforma institucional propuesta signific6 un mejor cumplimiento de los objetivos del proyecto, aunque
tambien mayores estudios y esfuerzos para lograrlo.
Los componentes relativos a aspectos ambientales, suponian inicialmente un rapido monitoreo ambiental con
aporte de entidades nacionales con capacidad de medici6n y analisis, lo que a la postre no fue posible
obtener. Los estudios sobre salud humana y su afectaci6n por actividades mineras de pequenia escala
requirieron mas tiempo del previsto, ya que cubrieron problemas derivados de la pobreza y condiciones
socioculturales imperantes en los distritos de pequefia mineria, lo que ampli6 los objetivos planteados
inicialmente y asi como sus resultados, hasta poner en funcionamiento una unidad de salud, en coordinaci6n
con otro proyecto del Banco Mundial en la zona (Proyecto Fasbase, del Ministerio de Salud), y con aportes
de la comunidad local.
Al inicio, no estuvo suficientemente valorada la necesidad de establecer una relaci6n de confianza con los
pequefios mineros, la que debi6 ser construida durante los primeros anos del proyecto, para lograr
condiciones de aceptaci6n de las propuestas tecnicas y ambientales generadas por los consultores. Sin
embargo, el clima de confianza logrado signific6 el exito de este proceso, no solo permiti6 cumplir los
objetivos trazados, sino incrementarlos con lecciones que podran ser aplicadas en otros paises, y con nuevas
propuestas para el sector.
Los aspectos de protecci6n ambiental fueron ligeramente modificados, ampliando la gesti6n y participacion
local de las comunidades que rodean las explotaciones mineras auriferas, estableciendo un centro de
diagn6stico y prevenci6n de enfermedades ocupacionales relacionadas con mineria en la zona de Ponce
Enriquez, y construyendo una de las obras de remediaci6n disefiadas durante el proyecto, como caso
demostrativo.
- 38 -



2. Temas relevantes en la evoluci6n de PRODEMINCA
Procesos de infonnaci6n y consulta
Este proyecto ha sido pionero en impulsar procesos de consulta (reconocidos en la Constituci6n de Ecuador
desde 1998), a partir de 1996, en que utiliz6 este procedimiento para preparar el reglamento ambiental para
actividades mineras.  Tambien permitio cambiar los criterios de difusi6n de informacion sobre
contaminaci6n (considerada "confidencial" antes del proyecto), y los de descentralizaci6n y desarrollo de
capacidades de gesti6n a nivel de comunidades y gobiernos locales. Todo esto ha permitido racionalizar el
debate entre conservaci6n de biota versus desarrollo minero, que ha marcado la evoluci6n del Proyecto en su
[ltima etapa.
Uno de los aportes importantes ha sido la publicaci6n y amplia difusion de resultados del proyecto, los que,
presentando de manera objetiva el balance entre ventajas y desventajas de la actividad minera, y sus
relaciones con aspectos ambientales, han contribuido a orientar un permanente debate sobre explotaci6n de
recursos naturales en un pais megadiverso.
Esto ha sido posible porque anteriormente se cumplieron algunas fases previas:
a) Difusi6n de informaci6n. La publicaci6n de los diagn6sticos iniciales, incluyendo la relaci6n de la
mineria con pueblos indios, al inicio del proyeeto, asi como de los resultados del monitoreo ambiental, de las
reformas legales promovidas bajo el proyecto y de las perspectivas de nuevos yacimientos, han superado un
vacio existente en el pais, incrementando la confianza e informaci6n indispensables para procesos de
consulta. Las publicaciones consideraron diversas audiencias, unas con enfasis tecnico y otras con interes
comunitario o ambiental.
b) Impacto de la difusion de informacion. En Ecuador no existe tradici6n de difusi6n masiva de resultados
sobre manejo de recursos naturales, por lo que hemos tenido diversas reacciones: amplia aceptaci6n en
universidades y en las principales ong's, por el valor que implica para el desarrollo de investigaci6n y tesis
de grado, y para planificaci6n y desarrollo; clima de confianza en los distritos mineros, ya que al conocer los
resultados de su situaci6n de salud y de la contaminaci6n causada en su entomo, logramos condiciones para
establecer comites locales de gesti6n ambiental que superan los niveles de denuncia y realizan actividades de
remediacion con aportes importantes de cada comunidad. La difusi6n de los datos geoquimicos tambien ha
generado expectativas en algunas organizaciones del norte de Ecuador, por su supuesta influencia en la
presencia de mineros en areas protegidas. Ante ello, se realiz6 un estudio sobre las percepciones que la
poblaci6n del valle de Intag (zona relativamente aislada al Occidente de Cotacachi), cuyos resultados fueron
devueltos en una publicacion a la comunidad, y se encarg6 a dos ong's representantes de la sociedad civil, et
monitoreo del uso de la informaci6n generada por Prodeminca en areas naturales protegidas, por un periodo
de dos afios a partir de enero de 2001. Tambien se incrementaron las publicaciones sobre uso de las
geociencias y su relacion con eventuales yacimientos mineros.
c) Mineria depequenia escala. La informaci6n y consultas a actores sociales claves - grupos de
comunidades afectadas, trabajadores, duefios de los negocios informales y autoridades locales - permiti6
establecer procedimientos para monitorear y remediar impactos en la salud y el ambiente. Publicar sus
resultados dio seriedad y asegur6 la toma de conciencia, definici6n de competencias y apoyo a las acciones
de remediaci6n. Las iniciativas de mejor relaci6n con la comunidad, de incorporaci6n de mejor teenologia
apropiada, y de apertura a criterios de calidad ambiental, han sido posibles gracias a un amplio trabajo
social que ha pernitido transferir conceptos tecnicos y fortalecer la actuacion de gobiemos locales en el
control ambiental.
d) Consultas para reformas legales. Todas las reformas legales y reglamentarias estudiadas en el sector,
durante la vigencia del proyecto, se han discutido ampliamente convocando a los principales actores sociales.
- 39 -



En el proceso, debe destacarse el Reglamento Ambiental para actividad minera, en cuya discusi6n, con ong's
ambientalistas, comunidades y entidades mineras, se ratific6 el consenso de no realizar actividades mineras
en areas protegidas, hoy incorporado en el nuevo Reglamento.
e) Consulta Previa a la actividad minera. Bajo el proyecto se realiz6 una primera etapa de infornaci6n del
marco legal que regularia los procesos de consulta previa a actividades mineras. Al finalizar Prodeminca, el
MEM, con apoyo del Banco Mundial, desarrolla una Guia de Relaciones Comunitarias, para proporcionar
lineamientos, concertados entre los actores sociales claves (empresarios mineros, pequefios mineros,
comunidades, ong's ambientales y de desarrollo, gobiemos locales y nacional) que permitan que la actividad
minera se realice en armonia con las comunidades.
Desarrollo de capacidades locales e institucionales.
Se han enfatizado esfuerzos para construir capacidades locales para la gesti6n sostenible de la mineria de
pequefia escala, logrando la participaci6n de las comunidades locales y sus gobiernos seccionales. Al inicio
de 1999 el Proyecto colabor6 en la conformaci6n de dos Comites de Gestion Ambiental en Ponce Enriquez y
San Gerardo, con la participaci6n de miembros de cada comunidad como profesores, habitantes locales,
centros de salud y lideres formales e informales. La formalizacion y adecuado registro de organizaciones
mineras, reconocidas por el MEM, facilita su participaci6n en mejoras tecnicas, sociales y ambientales en su
ambito de influencia. Los municipios de Pucara (Ponce Enriquez), Portovelo y Santa Rosa, destacan a la
fecha por su interes en gestion ambiental relacionada con mineria de pequenia escala.
3. Principales observaciones y lecciones
Protecci6n Ambiental y desarrollo minero sostenible.
Durante estos seis afios, el proyecto ha incrementado el debate sobre protecci6n ambiental, desarrollo
minero, y condiciones de sostenibilidad en explotaci6n de recursos no renovables, a proposito de la amplia
difusi6n de sus resultados. El criterio de las principales ong's sefiala que la mineria es parte importante del
proceso de desarrollo del Ecuador, ya que el pais necesita de estos recursos, especialmente en areas remotas
con oportunidades econ6micas muy limitadas, cuyos gobiemos y comunidades locales requieren
infraestructura y optimizaci6n de sus finanzas. Varias instituciones centran sus esfuerzos en establecer vias
innovadoras para asegurar una mineria ambiental y socialmente responsable, con participaci6n de la
comunidad y la sociedad civil en el manejo y monitoreo de los impactos sociales y ambientales. Prodeminca
ha demostrado a traves de su trabajo en sectores de mineria de pequefia escala que esto es posible si se
involucra a la comunidad local en estas tareas. La consulta previa y publica, acompaniada de suficiente
informaci6n, llevada a cabo por el proyecto en sus principales acciones, ha permitido identificar mecanismos
nuevos de participaci6n de la sociedad civil en el manejo y toma de decisiones que pueden afectar a las
comunidades, en el contexto del desarrollo minero, lo que resulta ejemplar incluso para otras industrias.
Inestabilidad politica y estabilidad del provecto.
La inestabilidad politica del Ecuador afect6 el plan de implementaci6n y multiplic6 los esfuerzos para
explicar a sucesivas autoridades los alcances y limites del mismo. En una oportunidad (agosto 96 - febrero
97) se lleg6 a una discrepancia con respecto a los objetivos del proyecto y la imposibilidad de apoyar una
politica minera distinta de la defmida originalmente. Estos factores afectaron principalmente las actividades
relacionadas al fortalecimiento institucional, capacitaci6n y difusi6n del proyecto, que solo se iniciaron con
determinaci6n a fines de 1998. Sin embargo, estas situaciones pudieron controlarse gracias a la relativa
estabilidad de autoridades sectoriales comprometidas con los objetivos del Proyecto durante periodos
comparativamente largos (por ejemplo 95-96; 98-2000), a la fuerte estabilidad de la unidad de coordinaci6n
(1995-2000) y del personal contratado, y a la presencia comprometida de las misiones de asistencia tecnica
sueca y britanica.
- 40 -



Relaci6n entre componentes tecnicos e institucionales.
Durante la planeaci6n del proyecto se previ6 dos partes claramente diferenciadas: una (comnponentes "2")
relativa al fortalecimiento institucional, que en varios periodos tuvo afectaciones por la inestabilidad politica,
y otra (componentes "3") referida a ejemplos de aplicaci6n tecnica, en aspectos ambientales, de obtenci6n y
difusi6n de informaci6n geocientifica y de gesti6n de sistemas informaticos, asi como de asistencia a pequena
mineria, cuyo avance marc6 el ritmo del proyecto. Quiza un sistema de codirecci6n en las entidades
participantes en el proyecto, DINAMI y DINAGE, a fin de que sus funcionarios asuman las nuevas visiones
que guiaron la implementaci6n de los componentes tecnicos, la gesti6n de consultores nacionales y
extranjeros con mayor criterio multidisciplinario incremento sus capacidades de manejo de proyectos, habria
permitido una mejor proyecci6n para el futuro de estas entidades. De igual manera, los objetivos en aspectos
como salud, debieron dimensionarse al contexto social de las zonas de intervenci6n, incrementando la acci6n
en aspectos generales (desnutrici6n, pobreza, alcoholismo) que afectan al sector rural, para que no aparezca
la actuaci6n como excluyente solo para el sector minero.
Situaci6n general y riesgo pais.
Si bien hemos desarrollado todos los elementos necesarios en el sector minero, esto es: marco legal mas
seguro, mejores instituciones y un sistema de catastro transparente, mayor informaci6n geocientifica, mejor
contexto social y ambiental, el principal objetivo del proyecto, lograr mayor inversi6n en mineria, solo podra
ser medido en los pr6ximos afios. Factores como la caida de precios de los metodos y de las inversiones a
nivel mundial a partir de 1997, la inestabilidad politica en este periodo en el pais, la crisis econ6mica que
aun preocupa a los inversionistas extranjeros y la falta de confianza en los 6rganos judiciales, completan este
marco general negativo para la inversi6n extranjera en Ecuador. Sin embargo, en las primeras semanas
posteriores a la emisi6n de las reformas a la Ley de Mineria, importantes empresas mineras del mundo, como
RTZ, BHP y Noranda, han visitado el pais o han solicitado nuevas areas mineras.
4. Seguimiento de PRODEMINCA
Actividades de seauimiento del Provecto.
La influencia del proyecto en el desarrollo del sector, la confianza lograda por el catastro minero o por las
acciones con mineros de pequefia escala, y las necesidades crecientes de gesti6n ambiental multidisciplinaria,
Ilevan a considerar varias acciones posteriores al cierre de Prodeminca, para las cuales actualmente se han
formulado nuevos proyectos y se busca recursos principalmente no reembolsables. Entre estas se puede
mencionar:
Monitoreo de uso de la informacion en areas protegidas. Esta actividad, iniciada bajo el proyecto con
participaci6n de dos ong's de alta credibilidad, ha mostrado que, en el carnpo, se requiere muchas mas
acciones de protecci6n ambiental, no respecto a la informaci6n generada por el proyecto o a mineria en
general, sino a todo lo referente a protecci6n y mejor conocimiento de las areas naturales protegidas. Por
tanto, esta etapa de monitoreo deberia complementarse con otras acciones de caracter mas general, asi como
con nuevas investigaciones geocientificas en estas zonas.
Relaciones cumunitarias y consulta previa a actividades mineras. El Ministerio de Energia y Minas ha
conformado una unidad de coordinaci6n para continuar con esta actividad, procurando una formulaci6n
concertada de una guia de relaciones comunitarias que pueda conducir estos procesos en proyectos mineros
en marcha, en Ecuador. El Banco Mundial, que apoya un proceso similar para hidrocarburos, esta
colaborando con el MEM en este esfuerzo.
Mineria de pequefia escala. Debe aprovecharse las condiciones de confianza y aceptaci6n que deja el
proyecto, para consolidar la institucionalizaci6n de los procesos alcanzados y extenderlos a areas nuevas. Se
requiere de recursos de la cooperaci6n intemacional, con enfoque al continuo mejoramiento social y
-41 -



ambiental del entomo de las actividades mineras de pequeina escala, incluyendo temas como salud general y
ocupacional, igualdad de derechos a la mujer y la erradicaci6n del trabajo infantil, disminuci6n de la
contaminacion por desechos mineros y malas practicas ambientales, fortalecimiento de esquemas
empresariales y asociativos que permitan un mejor aprovechamiento de los recursos, y aplicaci6n de nuevas
tecnicas e implementos que permitan disminuir la contaminaci6n, incrementar los indices de recuperaci6n de
minerales y dar mejores condiciones de vida y trabajo a los pequefios mineros. con alta participaci6n de
actores y gobiemos locales.
Gesti6n ambiental descentralizada. Diversos actores, tanto mineros como no mineros, coinciden en que es
imprescindible fortalecer y desarrollar la gesti6n ambiental con participaci6n de actores y gobiemos locales,
en un proceso descentralizado que permita el dialogo y el control durante todas las etapas de actividad
minera, desde la consulta previa a exploraci6n hasta las condiciones de cierre de minas, con suficiente
coordinaci6n con el MEM. Esto supone acompaiar un proceso de fortalecimiento institucional, a nivel de
los cantones y parroquias con mayor actividad y/o perspectivas mineras, aprovechando la situaci6n
favorable desarrollada en torno al proyecto.
Promocion Minera.    La amplia aceptaci6n a las ultimas reformas legales establecidas en Ecuador,
refrendada por la presencia de tres de las principales empresas mineras en el pais, a partir de 2001, obligan a
realizar esfuerzos para difundir las condiciones que deja Prodeminca al final del proyecto, a fin de atraer
nuevas inversiones para una mineria sostenible. El MEM ha establecido un programa a cumplirse durante
2001, para difundir las ventajas e informaci6n que hoy ofrece el Ecuador.
Nuevos provectos a partir de estudios realizados bajo el Proyecto.
Se han identificado al menos cuatro proyectos nuevos, a partir de estudios realizados por Prodeminca:
a. La ejecucion del plan maestro ambiental del rio Puyango, que establece propuestas de remediaci6n
ambiental por montos superiores a los 15 millones de dMlares, como unica opci6n para controlar la
contaminaci6n en los afluentes de este rio, que drena el distrito minero de Zaruma Portovelo.
b. Obtenci6n de informaci6n y condiciones socioecon6micas para el aprovechamiento de recursos naturales
no renovables en la zona de frontera entre Ecuador y Peru, en las provincias de El Oro, Loja y Zamora. Fue
entregado al Banco Mundial y a DFID durante esta revisi6n, a fin de que sean considerados para futuros
financiamientos.
c. Evaluaci6n de los recursos minerales, mediante muestreo geoquimico, en la zona de frontera suroriental de
Ecuador con Pern, a fin de cooperar a un adecuado ordenamiento territorial, incluyendo la definici6n de
nuevas areas protegidas.
d. Mejoramiento integral de la gesti6n de pequefia mineria metalica en la zona sur de Ecuador, considerando
que esta es una altemnativa principal entre las actividades econ6micas de la zona.
e. Apoyo y seguimiento en la formnulacion y aplicaci6n de la Guia de Relaciones Comunitarias, la que podria
ser probada en varias zonas con operaciones mineras en exploraci6n.
5. Actuaci6n y desempenio del BIRF en el proyecto
5.1 Evaluaci6n de la actuaci6n del BIRF en la identificaci6n, preparaci6n, evaluaci6n y supervisi6n del
proyecto.
El Banco ha demostrado una amplia experiencia en este tipo de proyectos, con un significativo despliegue de
recursos tecnicos y ec&-n6ricos dlurante todas las fases de Prodeminca. La actuaci6n del Banco fue oportuna
y flexible para aceptar cambios de estrategia y ajustes durante toda la vida del proyecto.
Durante las diferentes fases del proyecto, se tuvo suficiente apoyo y colaboraci6n de los oficiales del BIRF
- 42 -



asignados al mismo. Debemos destacar la presencia y constancia del Sr. Gotthard Walser, especialista
minero del Banco, durante estos seis anios.
5.2 Diligencia y eficiencia demostrados y tecnicas administrativas, financieras y ambientales empleadas
El Banco actu6 con la debida diligencia y eficiencia y de conformidad con las mejores tecnicas
administrativas, financieras y ambientales acordadas en el convenio de prestamo No. 3655 EC, suscrito con
la Repuiblica de Ecuador. El departamento de Desembolsos fue un apoyo a la Unidad de Coordinaci6n de
proyecto.
5.3 Calificaci6n del grado de apoyo y compromiso del BIRF en el proyecto
El Banco apoy6 permanentemente las solicitudes del proyecto, y las misiones de evaluaci6n aportaron
oportunamente con sugerencias que ayudaron al cumplimiento de los objetivos propuestos. Se percibi6 que
el Banco tuvo con Prodeminca especial deferencia e interes.
5.4 Panel de Inspecci6n
La aceptaci6n de una denuncia de una ong poco representativa, y una larga investigaci6n de la misma por
parte de un panel de inspecci6n, pudo afectar innecesariamente el normal desarrollo del sector minero en el
pais y las relaciones entre la Republica del Ecuador y el Banco, en especial para futuros proyectos. Si bien
el gobiemo de Ecuador considera objetiva y adecuada la actuaci6n del IP, y coincide con sus sugerencias y
observaciones, tambien cree que estas instancias deben ser muy rigurosas al calificar la representatividad y
validez de denuncias que, como la presente, consideramos desproporcionada. En nuestro pais, cada vez con
mas frecuencia, se tiende a acudir a tribunales intemacionales con denuncias que buscan notoriedad, sin
mayores pruebas ni posibilidades de exito, lo que resulta nocivo para proyectos de desarrollo.
6. Actuacion de la Republica del Ecuador como Prestatario
6.1 Evaluacion general del prestatario
El gobiemo de Ecuador cumpli6 con los terminos del convenio de prestamo, cuya participaci6n se refleja en
el exito del proyecto y cumplimiento de sus objetivos.
6.2 Evaluaci6n del MEM como agencia responsable de implementar el proyecto
El MEM cumpli6 plenamente su rol de agencia responsable de la implementaci6n del proyecto. La
estabilidad de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n fue importante en esta gesti6n, lo que se refleja en el cumplimiento
en cada componente del proyecto.
El proyecto deja, adicionalmente, un grupo de profesionales que han perfeccionado sus destrezas en manejo
y administraci6n de proyectos, que podria apoyar a otras actividades del Banco Mundial en el pais.
6.3 Evaluacion de la actuaci6n de las entidades ejecutoras
La participaci6n de las entidades ejecutoras ha sido variada. La reforma institucional que se realizo en el
uiltimo anlo del proyecto, y que incluyo disminuci6n de personal, afect6 el involucramiento de funcionarios y
determin6 diferentes actitudes ante el proyecto. Sin embargo, de manera general, se considera que las
entidades bajo la Subsecretaria de Minas, DINAMI, DINAGE, UAM, USSIM, estan adecuadamente
preparadas para atender al sector de inversionistas mineros con agilidad, transparencia y seguridad.
La presencia de consultores de largo aliento financiados por creditos no reembolsables que acompanaron al
prestamo fue muy importante en la relaci6n con las agencias ejecutoras.
6.4 Tecnicas administrativas, financieras y ambientales empleadas y provisi6n de fondos, servicios y
recursos segun requerimientos del proyecto
-43 -



Se cumplieron satisfactoriamente las tecnicas y normas administrativas, financieras y ambientales que rigen
la administraci6n pfiblica en Ecuador. En aspectos ambientales para mineria, incluso realizamos actividades
pioneras en el pais, tanto en legislaci6n, participaci6n de actores sociales claves, como en monitoreo y
remediaci6n.
7. Evaluaci6n de resultados
A criterio del gobiemo de Ecuador, y de las principales empresas mineras y camaras de producci6n minera,
los resultados pueden calificarse como altamente satisfactorios.
Los objetivos se han logrado. A la conclusi6n del proyecto, se tiene un marco institucional mas adecuado
para el control y seguimiento de la inversi6n, informaci6n puiblica sobre sitios prospectivos, mejores
herramientas para la relaci6n con la comunidad y para el control ambiental.
En el afio 2001, hemos iniciado una nueva etapa de interes e inversi6n de empresas mineras en el pais, sin
duda relacionada con las mejores condiciones logradas por el proyecto, y a pesar de que las condiciones
generales recien comienzan a mejorar y estabilizarse.
Igualmente, el prestatario ha logrado mejores condiciones de monitoreo y remediaci6n ambiental
especialmente en las zonas con pequefia mineria. Existen ahora profesionales que laboran en las agencias
ejecutoras con mejor capacitaci6n en gesti6n ambiental, y se ha logrado comites de gesti6n locales en dos de
los distritos en que labora la mineria de pequefia escala.
Queremos expresar un especial agradecimiento al Sr. Gotthard Walser, especialista en Mineria del Banco
Mundial, quien con su constancia, entusiasmo y capacidad, contribuy6 para el exito de este proyecto.
Para las autoridades del Ministerio de Energia y Minas, resulta altamente satisfactorio emitir comentarios
positivos respecto a este proyecto que, estamos seguros, contribuira a la inversi6n minera, y con ello, a
mejores condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n ecuatoriana.
Cesar Anibal Espinosa Garces
Subsecretario de Minas
Ministerio de Energia y Minas
Julio, 2001
-44 -



MAP SECTION






r  oi I' -  '   1                      -                      -,
P A C       fC               ,
OCEAN    ~     ~     .                    .      , ,I....
;A, .1  '     -I-.
uuL~~~~~~~~ '**~                   ,J$~                        , .  -,,- !- -lI i.  -r '-' 
r- t ''  --                                                                 - 
.~~/.                                                                             --ml:,:,v Fd'i
<i~  ~   ~   C /-                          t--             -    -   -,
-  -1 -I,:l|             \ F}             ! 
! JD0tOj+ i ,41_ ' C E A N 
er-s~  ~    ~~     \,   L-% Il- .                 ' -  -       CO   T    LTEHIA
1A~~~~~~~
Cult of    ita' ;. /. t J  ^ c  <z         u4                            ECUADOP.
Gu>aoa qu    '                         -i              /      .                 MINING     DEVELOPMENT
AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTROL TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
F F F l! / A > /; >  .PAr _t . -c I' ild ... 'LAND  I'  I  I
1'                                                                   *   I **..III1.  II  11111'-1 ieii'
Z et/   -  -  '-                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11.'._1
P. PORTS
Th, o-p coos prodo-ed by thR
Mop Dosigo U   of Th Wold B-k.                                                        RIVERS
Th.  -od,  -nRot inns dcoc i                   'ba                                --    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
thsmop o notImply. onf  portlof                                                        NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The World -Bo   Gnoop, -ny i-dgonci
ccon tbe Iegolstotos ofoccy tenrctocy, onr                                  I .                                    cc
o-y edors-emet o r oonoof                        :     .
-'ohtcooccdoccc.



