21870 vol 1.
April 9, 2001
MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE
INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
ECUADOR MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NUMBER 3655-EC)
1.   Attached for consideration by the IBRD  Board of Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the Inspection Panel
Investigation Report on the Ecuador Mininlg Development and Environmnental Control
Technical Assistance Project (Investigation Report on Ecuiador Mining Developnient andi
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project, Loan No. 3655-EC) (INSP/R200 1-
1, February 23, 2001).
2.   It is recommended that the IBRD Board of Executive Directors approve the actions
and next steps set out in Section VI of the attached Management Report.
Sven Sandstrom
Acting President
FILE COPY



MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE
INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
ECUADOR MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NUMBER 3655-EC)
CONTENTS
Abbreviations and Acronyms ...........................................................3
I. Background ...........................................................4
II. Conclusions in the Panel Report and Management Report .....................................5
III. Findings with Regard to Material Adverse Effects .................................................6
A. Impact of the Public Release of Map and Mineral Data ......................................6
B. Impact of Mapping Activities ...........................................................7
C. Impact of Project Supervision Activities ............................................................8
IV. Findings on the Environmental Assessment Process .                            .............................................8
V. Findings on the Consultation Process ............................................................9
A. Timing of the Consultations in the North ......................................................   9
B. Quality of the Consultations .....................................................               10
VI. Actions and Next Steps ..........................................................                      11
A. Remedies .....................................................                                  11
B. Ensuring the Effective Use and Monitoring of Mapping Information ............... 1 1
C. Development of Consultation Mechanisms .....................................................  12
D. Support for Conservation and Environmental Management in Ecuador ........... 12



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACRI                  Asociaci6n de Caficultores Organicos Rio Intag (Association of
the Coffee Growers of Rio Intag)
BITS                   Government of Sweden's Agency for International Techlnical and
Economic Cooperation (later Sida)
BTO                    Back to Office (Report)
CEDENMA                Comite Ecuadoriana Para la Defiensa de la Naturaleza y el Medio
Ambiente (Ecuadorian Committee for the Defense of Nature
and the Environment)
CODENPE                Consejo de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades y Pueblos del
Ecuador (Ecuadorian National Council of Indigenous
Nationalities)
DECO N                 Defensa y Conservaci6n Ecol6gica de Intag (Defense and
Ecological Conservation of Intag)
DFID                   Government of the United Kingdom's Departnent for
International Development
DINAGE                 Direcci6n Nacional de Geologia (Ecuadorian Geological
Directorate)
EA                     Environmental Assessment
GEF                    Global Environment Facility
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                    International Development Association
IEPS                   Initial Executive Project Summary
LCR                    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
NPAS                   Ecuador's National Protected Areas System
OD                     Operational Directive
ODA                    Government of the United Kingdom's Overseas Development
Agency (later DFID)
OP/BP                  Operational Policy/Bank Policy
OPN                    Operational Policy Note
PATRA                  Ecuador Environmental Management Technical Assistance Project
PID                    Project Information Document
PRODEMINCA             Ecuador Mining Development and Environmental Control
Technical Assistance Project
Sida                   Swedish International Development Agency
TA                     Technical Assistance



MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE
INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
ECUADOR MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN NUMBER 3655-EC)
I. BACKGROUND
1.   The Project.  The Ecuador Mining Development and Envirolnmental Control
Technical Assistance Project (Loan Number 3655-EC) (PRODEMINCA, the Project),
closed last December 31, 2000. It was officially requested by the Government of
Ecuador twelve years ago, on March 14, 1989. The Initial Executive Project Summary
(IEPS) was issued on April 9, 1990 and the project appraisal was completed on
December 17, 1992. The project was approved by the IBRD Board of Executive
Directors on October 21, 1993.
2.   At Approval, PRODEMINCA was a relatively small technical assistance loan, with
IBRD Commitments of US$ 14.0 million, and was cofinanced by the Govenment of
Sweden's Agency for International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS)', and
by the Government of the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Agency (ODA)2 for
a total of US$ 8.1 million equivalent.
3.   The Request for Inspection. On December 17, 1999 the Inspection Panel (the
Panel) registered a Request for Inspection3 for PRODEMINCA  filed by DECOIN
(Defensa y Conservaci6n Ecol6gica de Intag), a non-governmental organization (NGO)
located in the Intag Valley of Ecuador and by four members of AACRI (Asociaci6n de
Caficultores Organicos Rio Intag) in the same region (the Requesters). On January 18,
2000 Management prepared a response to this Request4. After a field visit to Ecuador,
the Panel prepared a memorandum entitled Request fo7 Inspection: Ecuador Mininig
Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC)
(INSP/R2000-5) which it sent to the IBRD Board of Executive Directors on May 3, 2000.
4.   On May 15, 2000 the Board authorized the Panel to conduct an investigation into
whether the Bank had violated its operational policies and procedures in the design,
I Now Sida, the Swedish [nternationial Developmenit Agency.
2 Now DFID, the Department for International Developmenit.
'DECOIN and four members of AACRI, "Request for an Inspection Panel on the Mining Development
and Environmental Control Teclnical Assistance Pro ject (PRODEMINCA)," (Ecuador, December 6,
1999), IPN Request RQ99/7. in Request/tbr Inspection: Ecuador Mining Development and
Envilronmeental Contrlol Technical Assistance Projecl (Loan 3655-EC), Inspection Panel, (Washington,
D.C., May 3, 2000), Atnex 1.
4 "Management Response to Reqaest for Inspectioni Panel Review of Ecuador Mining Development and
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC)," (Washington, D.C., January 18,
2000), in Request ,f- Inspection. Ecuador Mining Development and Environtmental Control Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC, Inspection Panel, (Washington, D.C., May 3, 2000), Annex 2.



appraisal, and  supervision  of the  Project, specifically  OD  4.0  Annex  A5  on
Environmental Assessment (EA), OPN  11.02 on Wildlands6, and OD  13.05 on Project
Supervision7.  After carrying out the investigation, on February 23, 2001 the Panel
submitted to the Board a report entitled Investigation Report on Ecuador Mining
Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3655-EC)
(INSP/R2001-1) (Panel Report). On the same day, the Panel delivered copies of the
Panel Report to the President.
5.   This Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection
Panel Investigation Report is submitted to the IBRD Board of Executive Directors
pursuant to paragraph 238 of the Resolution establishing the World Bank Inspection
Panel9.
6.   Management would like to take this opportunity to thank the Inspection Panel for
the thorough and professional way in which it conducted the investigation, for the broad
range of stakeholders it consulted, and especially for its efforts to accommodate the
request of the Borrower with respect to the timing of the field visits.
II. CONCLUSIONS IN THE PANEL REPORT AND MANAGEMENT REPORT
7.   Panel Report. The Panel Report concludes "that Management is substantially in
compliance with the provisions of OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment (formerly OD
4.00, Annex A) except as noted below; OPN 11.02 on Wildlands (now OP/BP 4.04 on
Natural Habitats), and OD 13.05 on Project Supervision. The Panel finds, however, that
Management was in apparent violation of certain provisions of the policies and
procedures on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A and OD 4.01) conceming
processing, geographical scope, baseline data, and concerning consultation during
preparation." 10
8.    Management Report.  Management agrees with the Panel Report that it was
substantially in compliance with OPN  11.02 on Wildlands and OD  13.05 on Project
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex'A: EnvironmentalAssessment, was issued on October 31, 1989 and
was applicable to all projects that reached the IEPS stage after October 15, 1989. OD 4.00 Ainex A was
replaced by Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment, which was issued on October 3,
1991 and was applicable to all projects that reached the IEPS stage after October 1, 1991. OD 4.01 was
replaced by Operational Policy/Bank Policy 4.01: Env ironnmental Assessment, which was issued in
January 1999 and was applicable to all pro jects reaching the Project Information Document (PID) stage
after March 1, 1999.
6 Operational Policv iVote 11.02: Wikllands: Tlheir Protection and Management in Economic Development
was issued on June 2, 1986. It was converted to Operational Policy/Bank Policy 4.04: Natural Habitats
in September 1995, and was applicable to all projects reachinig the PID stage after October 15, 1995.
7 Operational Directive 13.05: Project Supervision was issued in March 1989.
"Within six weeks from receiving the Panel's findings, Managemenit will submit to the Executive
Directors for their consideration a report indicatinig its recomimienidations in response to such findinigs."
The World Bank Board of Executive Directors, "The World Bank Inspection Panel," Resolutioni No. 93-
10, Resolution No. IDA 93-6, (Washinigton, D.C., September 22, 1993).
lU The World Bank Inspection Panel, Investigation Report on Ecuiador Mining Development and
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project (Loan Number 3655-EQ. (Washington, D.C.,
February 23, 2001), Executive Summary, paragraph 92.



- 6 -
Supervision. Management accepts the positioni stated in the Panel Report that a more
expanded and robust EA and consultation process should have been undertaken. The
Management Report describes the actions that are being taken on the issues raised in the
Panel Report.
9.   The Management Report is organized as follows:  Section III summarizes the
findings in the Panel Report with respect to the claims made by the Requesters with
regard to material adverse effects. Sections IV and V discuss the findings in the Panel
Report with respect to the concems raised by the Requesters regarding compliance with
the EA process and consultations. Section VI explains the actions that are being taken on
the issues raised in the Panel Report.
III. FINDINGS WITH REGARD TO MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECTS
10.  As  required  by  the  Resolution , and  further  explained  in  the  Second
Clarifications'2, the Panel Report discusses the claims made by the Requesters with
regard to material adverse effects in the following areas: (a) impact of public release of
map and mineral data; (b) impact of mapping activities; and (c) impact of project
supervision activities. As detailed below, in each case the Panel Report indicates that
there were no material adverse effects caused by Bank failure of compliance with its
policies and procedures.
A.   Impact of the Public Release of Map and Mineral Data
11.  The Panel Report notes that the Requesters claim "that the public release of maps
with mineral data collected under the Project's Geo-information component will attract
mining companies and 'infonrnal' miners. In their [the Requesters'] view, this would
have a destructive impact in the areas where they live and on the protected areas and their
b'uffer zones. It would also prevent local communities from continuing to work on their
traditional farming and ecotourism activities, and trigger grave social problems within
their communities. They [the Requesters] maintain that mining activities in these areas
would be unavoidable should the geo-infonnation maps and data reveal the existence of
mining potential in the region, and would result in significant degradation of critical
natural habitats, including the ecosystem of El Choc6 and the Cotacachi-Cayapas
Ecological Reserve. The latter is recognized as one of the world's richest remaining
natural habitats and threatened biodiversity hotspots."'3
" See footnote 9 above.
12 World Bank Board of Executive Directors. "Conclusionis of the Board's Second Review of the inspection
Panel," (Washington, D.C., April 20, 1999). Paragraph 13 states: "As required by the Resolutioni, the
Panel's report to the Board will focus oni whether there is a serious Bank failure to observe its operational
policies and procedures with respect to project design. appraisal and/or implementation. The report will
include all relevant facts that are needed to understanid fully the conitext and basis for the panel's findings
and conclusions. The Panel will discuss in its written report only those material adverse effects, alleged
in the request. that have totally or partially resulted fi-om serious Bank failure of compliance with its
policies and procedures. If the request alleges a material adverse effect and the Panel finds that it is not
totally or partially caused by Bank failure, the Panel's report will so state without entering into analysis of
the material adverse effect itself' or its causes."
13 Inspection Panel. Panel Rep7ort, Executive Summary, paragraph 7.



12.  The Panel Report states that after having considered expert advice and examined
the evidence, it would be "reasonable to conclude that the maps alone, even in
conjunction witlh the geochemical data, are insufficient in themselves to locate ore
deposits. The geochemical data and the geologic maps would be useful reconnaissance
tools in narrowing the search area for further exploration, especially when used in
conjunction with other available maps, papers, and reports, but they should not lead
directly to mining activity.14 ...The geochemical data and maps are a good starting point
for further studies of the mineral potential of this region of Ecuador, but any interested
company would have to do much more work, primarily detailed mapping and drilling,
before any detailed exploration could begin. This would take considerable time and may
cost millions of dollars."''
13.  As a result of this analysis of the mining life cycle and the role of thematic maps,
the Panel Report concludes that "the eventuality that the Project may come to cause harm
(i.e. material adverse effects) to the Requesters is, in all likelihood, very remote. First,
the Requesters reside in an area that has been excluded from the thematic mapping sub-
component of the Project (see Map [in Panel Report]) and, hence, no mining activity in
the area could be regarded as a direct consequence of the Project. Second, Ecuador's
legislation only permits mining activities in protected areas (such as the Cotachachi-
Cayapas Ecological Reserve) by exception. Even when pernitted, these activities are
subject to strict environmental controls. In meetings with the Panel, the Government of
Ecuador's mining and environmental authorities confirmed their commitment to prohibit
any kind of mining activities in protected areas. Finally, officials of local government in
Ecuador (such as the Municipality of Cotacachi), representatives of civil society and local
(such as DECOIN and CEDENMA) and intemational NGOs appear fimnly committed to
protect Ecuador's very rich biodiversity."' 6
14.  Management is pleased to note that the Panel Report indicates that "tlhe Panel
accepts that the geological and thematic mapping carried out under the Project is
ecologically neutral and agrees that thematic mapping is generally beneficial for the
country, as it increases its database of knowledge on its natural resources. It will also
help identify areas that are sensitive and that could be excluded from mining
development."'7  Managemenlt agrees with the Panel Report that the information
contained in the geological and thematic maps must be "carefully managed so as not to
generate adverse social and environmental consequences,"18 and measures taken in this
regard are detailed in Section VI-B below.
B.  Impact of Mapping Activities
15.  The Panel Report notes that the Requesters claim that during the mapping exercise,
carried out by the British Geological Survey and the Ecuadorian Geological Directorate
(Direcci6n Nacional de Geologia, DINAGE), and cofinanced by ODA/DFID, "damage
14 Ibid., paragraph 77.
'5 Ibid., paragraph 78.
'I Ibid., paragraph 84.
7 Ibid., paragraph 85.
" Ibid.



- 8 -
has already been done to the areas mentioned by paths being opened up for personnel
engaged in prospecting and then being used by people who have nothing to do with the
project as access route to the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve." 19
16.  The Panel Report indicates that the Panel "did not receive any evidence to support
the Requesters' claim that the Cotacachi-Cayapas reserve suffered substantial or
permanent damage as a result of the sampling activities carried out under the Project."'20
C.   Impact of Project Supervision Activities
17.  The Panel Report notes that the Requesters claim that "the Bank has not monitored
the PRODEMINCA project carefully enough, and that lack of control and surveillance
has done harm to the parties involved (OD 13.05).''21
18.  The Panel Report indicates that "the Panel found that frequent missions were
undertaken and that there was considerable follow up by the Bank on outstanding issues.
Moreover, it appears that the composition and scope of the missions evolved with Project
requirements. On the basis of the evidence reviewed, the Panel finds the Bank in
compliance with OD 13.05."22
19.  Given these findings in the Panel Report, Management is not proposing any
remedial efforts with regard to the claims made by the Requesters.
IV. FINDINGS ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
20. As noted in the Panel Report, "the Requesters claim a number of violations of OD
4.01 on Environment Assessment,"23 although the Requesters do not claim that any harm
or damage was done as a result. The Panel Report indicates "that a more expanded and
robust EA process should have been undertaken."24 Management accepts this position.
21. After a decade of experience and knowledge accumulation within the Bank and in
the community of practice, the limitations of the EA are more apparent.  Seen in
historical perspective, this was the first EA for a mining technical assistance project in
the Bank. Furthermore, OD 4.00 Annex A had been in effect for less than six months
when the IEPS for PRODEMINCA was issued on April 9, 199025. The project's EA
category was changed from a Category B26 to a Category A on June 27, 199027, and the
"9 Ibid., paragraph 61.
24) Ibid., paragraph 74.
2t Ibid., paragraph 87.
22 Ibid., paragraphs 90-91.
23 Ibid., paragraph 17.
24 Ibid., paragraph 24.
25 Stefan Alber-G, Memorandunm "ECUADOR - Mininig, Technical Assistance and Environmienital Control
Project: Initial Executive Project Summary," (Washington, D.C.. April 9, 1990).
26 Lending Operations Timetable, February 14, 1990.
27 Peter M. Fozzard, Memorandum "ECUADOR: Mining Development and Environmnental Control Project:
Environmental Assessment Category," (Washington. D.C., June 27, 1990).



- 9 -
consultants financed by the Government of Sweden's BITS started work on December 3,
28                                                        2
199() . OD 4.01 was issued almost a year later on October 3, 1991  , and had been in
effect for just a year by the time the EA studies had been completed and reviewed on
October 9, 199230. The EA Summary was finalized by the Government and issued to the
IBRD Board of Executive Directors on January 7, 1993 (Report Number SECM93-25).
22. Despite the limitations of the EA, Management is pleased to note that the Panel
Report indicates that material adverse effects to the Requesters from the Project may be
considered as remote31. The Project focused on the establishment of the conditions
allowing the development of the mining sector, including the development of information
systems, mining cadastre and geological and thematic mapping, which, as recognized in
the Panel Report (and detailed in Section III above) have negligible or non-existent direct
environmental impacts. However, Management accepts the position in the Panel Report
that a more comprehensive EA process "would have enabled the Borrower and Bank
management to better understand and prepare for potential adverse impacts derived from
the Project as a whole"32 and better positioned the Government of Ecuador for the
coming stages in the development of its mining industry and for the sound management
of the environmental and social consequences of an expansion of private sector mining in
the future.
23.  In retrospect, a more comprehensive sectoral EA should have been carried out with
many of the characteristics called for in the Panel Report - namely a broader scope
covering the entire project area; an analysis of the natural environment including on
biodiversity conservation, human health and safety, and social issues; greater emphasis
on the role of local public entities and civil society in addition to institltional, legal and
regulatory strengthening at the national level; and a broader and deeper consultation with
community-based, non-governmental and local, state and national government entities.
V. FINDINGS ON THE CONSULTATION PROCESS
A.  Timing of the Consultations in the North
24.  The Panel Report correctly notes that consultations about the thematic mapping
activity did not take place in the northern part of the country at the time of project
preparation or as part of the EA process. Instead, the British Geological Survey and the
Ecuadorian Geological Directorate, working on behalf of the Project, followed the
standard international practice used by geological survey organizations. Prior to entering
an area to carry out the mapping exercise, the standard intemational practice is to meet
with local government authorities and community leaders (such as religious leaders and
2X Peter M. Fozzard. Mission Back to Office Report, "ECUADOR: Mining Developmenit and
Environmienital Con-trol Project, Project Preparation, Mission BTO 26 Nov - 3 Dec, 1990," (Washington,
D.C.. December 13, 1990), paragraph 6.
2' See footnote 5 above.
George Ledec, Memorandum "ECUADOR - Miniing Developmenlt and Environmiiienital Control TA
Project -- Comments on Environmenital Assessment Report," (Washington, D.C., October 9, 1992).
i' Inspection Panel, Paniel Report, Executive Summary, paragraph 84.
I2 Ibid., paragraph 24.



- l() -
village heads) in the area that will be mapped, describe the nature of the mapping activity
and the anticipated timeframe, and introduce members of the mapping team. In the case
of Ecuador, this practice was applied as the mapping activity progressed from south (late
1995) to north (1998).
B.  Quality of the Consultations
25.  Management agrees with the Panel Report that given the "strongly expressed
fear, "33 the "misinforrnation,"34 and the history of the "traumatic event"35 related to the
removal of a mining company from the area, the consultations in the area around the
Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological Reserve could have been improved to address "the
legitimate needs of potentially affected people for information about the Project" and
"could have led to a better understanding about what was intended, allayed latent fears,
and provided feedback that would have improved the Project and increased community
cooperation in implementing it."36
26.  Following the attention drawn to the mapping work and the ensuing controversy, in
November 1999 the Govermnent and the Bank recognized the necessity of further
consultations, and the dissemination of more detailed information.  A consultation
program was immediately designed and implemented, targeting local authorities and
residents of the Intag Valley (which is a buffer zone of Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological
Reserve), as well as other stakeholders at the national level. The purpose of the program
was to (i) present the interested parties with information in an accessible manner, based
on scientific facts, through a series of public fora and popular assemblies: (ii) give them
th-e opportunity to discuss the information with representatives of the Project; and (iii)
propose ways for disseminating and tracking the use of the information. A sociological
assessment of the Intag Valley was carried out by a well known community development
NGO on the views of stakeholders regarding thematic mapping. The results were
published and disseminated to the residents and authorities of the Intag Valley and the
Cotacachi area. Books and brochures were published, to inform local communities on
the use of the information for planning and resources management purposes.
27.  Management is pleased that the Panel Report recognizes these efforts, and notes
that "the Panel commends the November 1999 initiative to strengthen and enhance,
however late, the consultation process related to geo-information and thematic
mapping."37
33 Ibid., paragraph 54.
34 Ibid., paragraph 56.
35 Ibid.
;6 Ibid., paragraph 57.
i7 Ibid., paragraph 59.



- 11 -
VI. ACTIONS AND NEXT STEPS
A. Remedies
28. As discussed in Section III, given the findings in the Panel Report, Management is
not proposing any remedial efforts with regard to the claims made by the Requesters.
B.  Ensuring the Effective Use and Monitoring of Mapping Information
29.  PRODEMINCA  is closed, but Bank staff will continue to work with the
Government and local NGOs to implement actions agreed on under the Project,
especially with regard to the use of the geological and thematic mapping information
produced by the Project. To prevent adverse social and environmental consequences and
to ensure that the information is used in favor of development effectiveness, the
following activities will be undertaken, as detailed below: (a) participation of NGOs in
monitoring the use and application of the information generated under the Project ; (b)
enforcement of the standard license agreements for the use of the information; and (c)
publication of brochures, and workshops, on the use of geo-information.
30. Monitoring of Information Use. In order to monitor the use of geological and
thematic information in protected areas, and to prevent unauthorized activities in such
areas, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy and Mines have awarded
a two year contract to a group including two enviromnental NGOs. This group was
selected through a competitive process, based on terms of reference developed in
consultation with a broad and representative range of environmental NGOs. In each key
community, at least seven local resident observers will be trained to watch the protected
areas, and to provide information to local communities so as to assure their involvement.
Trainiing will also be provided to local Protected Area Managers. Procedures to channiel
complaints have been set up, and work is underway on launching a web site. Status
reports will be published twice a year, and a public conference will be organized once a
year to inform and assess the situation. Management is pleased that the Panel Report
indicates that "the Panel views this as a very positive development."38
31.  Enforcement of License Agreements.  Any organization, corporation, or
individual wishing to purchase the thematic and geological mapping information has to
sign a license agreement with the Ministry of Energy and Mines. hi doing so, the
purchaser acknowledges that it knows the laws and regulations regarding the
development of mining activities within the National Protected Areas System (NPAS),
agrees to follow the regulations regarding the use of this information, and will
communicate with both the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Energy and
Mines regarding the use of such informnation in protected areas. Management is pleased
that the Panel Report also considers that these are "strict"39 conditions that will promote
sound management.
R Ibid., paragraph 82.
Ibid.



- 12 -
32.  Additional Publications and Workshops.  Additional brochures are being
published and workshops are being organized, aimed at further facilitating the
understanding and use by a broader audience of the geo-infonnation produced by
PRODEMINCA. This activity will be continued under the coordination of the Ministry
of Energy and Mines.
C.  Development of Consultation Mechanisms
33. The development of consultation mechanlisms for mining activities in Ecuador has
been initiated and is linked to that of other extractive industries. A govenmmental
coordination committee has been established, including the Ministry of Government, the
National Council of Indigenous Nationalities (CODENPE, the Consejo de Desarrollo de
las Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador), Ministry of Enviromnent, and Ministry of
Energy and Mines, and advised by national consultants and Bank staff. The legal and
sectoral frameworks for the consultation process have been reviewed, and in November
2000 a series of workshops were organized with all stakeholders to define the scope and
procedures to develop consultation mechanisms.
D.  Support for Conservation and Environmental Management in Ecuador
34.  The findings documented in the Panel Report underscore the importance of the
Bank and the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR) investing further in
sectoral and strategic EAs in the coming years. Such an approach is recommended in the
proposed corporate Environment Strategy and in LCR's recently approved Regional
Envirolnmenital Strategy. LCR will seek the opportunity to support its clients in carrying
out strategic EAs - sectoral, regional and policy-based - in upcoming operations. LCR
will also promote training for staff on strategic EAs in collaboration with the World Bank
Institute.
35. Although PRODEMINCA has now closed, the Bank continues to be engaged in
several activities in Ecuador that allow the Bank to continue the policy dialogue and
support for environmentally sustainable development through conservation and
strengthening of environmental management capacity.
36.  Country Assistance Strategy. In recognition of the unique biological and natural
resources, and the different ecosystems represented in Ecuador - wlhich is one of the 17
megadiverse countries of the world - as well as the wide range of environmental issues
faced by the country, the Bank has made support to environmental strengthening
activities a priority for its country assistance strategy. This was documented in the
Country Assistance Strateg) of May 5, 1993 (Report No. P-5657-EC), and reconfirmed in
the Country Assistance Strategy of June 1, 2000 (Report No. R2000-102) which was
recently discussed at the Board.
37.  Conservation. The first project to support the NPAS in Ecuador was a US$ 7.2
million equivalent Global Environment Facility Biodiversity Protection Project, (GEF
Grant 28700-EC), which was under preparation at the same time as PRODEMINCA, and
was approved six months later on May 9, 1994. The project closed on September 30,
1999. The objective of the grant was to support the restructuring and strengthening of the



- 13 -
institutionlal capacity and overall policy and legal framework of the NPAS. Eight of the
eighteen protected areas in the system, including the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological
Reserve, were included for direct assistance.
38.  Among project outcomes achieved with grant assistance are: support to the
Ministry of Environment, created in 1996, which improved the visibility of the
environmental agenda in Govermment policies and decision and elevated the status of
protected areas within the Government structure; preparation of a ten year Strategic Plan
of the National Systenm qf Natutral Protected Areas of Ecuador, which was officially
presented in October 1999; completion of the Protected Aieas Biodiversitv Assessment
and the Socio-Economic AssessmenZt; inputs into the fonnulation, and support for the
National Strateg  tbr the Protection and Sustainable Use of Wildlife in Ecuador, the
Special Biodiversit- Law, and the National Biodiversity Strategy (under preparation);
creation of a Biodiversity Information Center with input from four academic institutions,
and initiation of a database on Ecuador's biodiversity and the production of vegetation
maps; highly participatory management planning exercise in four protected areas;
upgrading of infrastnicture and equipment, and training of key personnel in the NPAS.
39.  The Government of Ecuador has requested Bank assistance for the second stage of
coniservation activities. The Strategic Plan prepared under the first GEF project is the
basis for a second GEF project which is now in the early stages of preparation, and which
is intended as the US$ 8 million three-year first phase of a 15-year program of support. It
has the objective of contributing to the improved sustainable and equitable management
of Ecuador's biological diversity through the effective management and financial
sustainability of the NPAS, and of conserving and sustainably managing globally
important forest and freshwater ecosystems in Ecuador. As currently designed, the
project would support the effective management of the Cotacachi-Cayapas Ecological
Reserve and two other protected areas, through: participatory development of a
management plan; identification and implementation of co-management mechanisms,
training and other institutional capacity building activities; and legal and regulatory
reforms to create sustainable mechanisms to finance park management activities. In
addition, the project would capitalize a Protected Areas Fund that would secure long-term
fuiding for six protected areas that have little opportLnity to use market-based
mechanisms to mobilize resources to finance management activities.
40.  Strengthening of Environmental Institutions. Also prepared at the same time as
PRODEMINCA, the USS 15 million Environnmental Managentent Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 3998-EC, PATRA) which was approved on April 4, 1996, had the
objective of providing support for the ongoing process of implementing the National
Environmental Management Strategy by strengthening the Ministry of Environment and
environmental units in other ministries, and in assisting the Government in building up
enviromnental management capacity in three priority geographic areas. Implementation
of this project was problematic and the project was restructured in early 1999. The
Goverrnent has reaffirmed its commitment to the objectives of the project, and the Bank
is working closely with its counterparts to achieve these project objectives.



