Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 25715
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
ECUADOR
MINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3655 EC)
April 7,2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Sucres
Exchange Rate at Project Appraisal (December 1992):  US$1=  1,850 Sucres
Exchange Rate at Completion (December 2000):         US$1 = 25,000 Sucres
Exchange Rate as of July 2002:                       US$1 = 25,000 Sucres
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASM            Artisanal and Small-scale Mining
CAAM           Presidential Environmental Advisory Commission (Comision Asesora Ambiental de la
Presidencia da Republica)
CEPE           Ecuador State Petroleum Corporation (Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuadoriana)
CEPLAES        Social Planning and Study Center (Centro de Planificacion y Estudios Sociales)
CODIGEM        Corporation for Geological, Mining and Metallurgical Research and Development
(Corporacion de Desarrollo y Ivestigaciones Geologicas y Mineras)
DFID           Department for International Development (UK)
DINAGE         National Geological Directorate (Direccion Nacional de Geologia)
DINAMA         National Directorate of the Environment (Direccion Nacional de Medio Ambiente)
DINAMI         National Directorate of Mines (Direccion Nacional de Minas)
ES             Evaluation Summary
FDI            Foreign direct investment
INEFAN         Ecuador Forestry Institute for Natural Areas and Wildlife (Instituto Ecuatoriano
Florestal de Areas Naturales y Vida Silvestre)
INEMIN         Mining Institute of Ecuador
LATEN          Latin America and the Caribbean Region Environment Department
MA             Ministry of the Environment (Ministerno del Ambiente)
MEM            Ministry of Energy and Mines (Ministerio de Energia y Minas)
MOP            Memorandum of the President
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
PATRA          Ecuador Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Proyecto de Asistencia recnica
para la Gestion Ambiental en el Ecuador)
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SSM            Under-secretariat of Mines (Sub-secretaria de Minas)
UAM            Mining Environmental Unit (Unidad Ambiental Minera)
Measures and Equivalents
Metric System
lFiscal Year
Government:            January 1 to December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)  : Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                         : Mr. Andres Liebenthal



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
GREGORY K INGRAM
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 7, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Performance Assessment Report on Ecuador
Mining Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 3655-EC)
Attached is the Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department on the above project. The loan of US$14 million equivalent was approved in fiscal
1994, and closed in fiscal 2001. An amount of US$3 million out of the Bank loan was cancelled.
The project objectives were to (a) assist the government in the implementation of its
mining law, and thus attract new pnvate mining investment and support the systematic
development of increased, yet environmentally sound, mineral production; and (b) arrest and
mitigate mining-related environmental degradation that results from the use of primitive and
inadequate technology by artisanal and small-scale mining operations.
The project's outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. It established a modern regulatory
framework for the mining sector and strengthened and restructured the public mining institutions.
It made significant contnbutions in several areas: documenting the extent and impact of pollution
created by artisanal and small-scale mining; increasing local awareness of environmental
degradation; mobilizing affected communities; promoting less-polluting technologies and
organizational models; implementing a demonstration common liquid effluent settling pond; and
proposing comprehensive management plans in the two most critical areas. While relevance and
efficacy are high, however, efficiency is modest. Country risks and depressed market conditions
for gold and other metals and ores have prevented significant increases in pnvate sector interest
in the sector, and no significant discovery has been made so far. Also, even in the pilot area,
small-scale miners have not invested in the treatment facilities that would be required to
significantly reduce pollution from tailings.
Sustainability is rated unlikely on balance, though marginally so. Long-term
environmental sustainability of mining sector development is uncertain as long as potential
conflicts of interest exist within the Under-secretanat of Mining of the Mmistry of Energy and
Mines between its promotion of development and its responsibility for environmental
monitoring, control, and enforcement. Insufficient capacity to monitor environmental
performance of mining concessions and enforce regulations is also a constraint. Long-term
sustainability will also depend on the development of oversight capacity by the Ministry of the
Environment and on effective participation of local communities. Sustainability of environmental
achievements in the small-scale mining sector is unlikely because technical assistance to promote
replication of measures put in place under the project has been discontinued; monitoring of
pollution in rivers has been interrupted; and local environmental committees no longer receive
financial support.
Bank and borrovwer performance are both rated satisfactory, but quality at entry is rated
unsatisfactory. The project's objectives were overly ambitious regarding the ability of a technical
assistance project to "arrest and correct " negative environmental impacts from a complex and



2
diverse artisanal and small-scale gold mining sector. Also, the appraisal did not identify the
potentially large impact of cyclical downturns in ore and metal markets on the resilience of
project benefits. Finally, the Environmental Assessment (EA) carried out during preparation had
important gaps, whuch led to an Inspection Panel investigation. The EA had a limited
geographical scope and did not adequately cover the possible impact of increased mming
activities on the country's natural areas. Also, consultations with stakeholders were insufficient.
The partial failure to comply with environmental assessment guidelmes has not resulted in
adverse impacts, and the shortfalls in design were addressed during supervision, therefore overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
The main lessons learned from this project are:
Technical assistance that aims to encourage pnvate investment in extractive industries requires
the preparation of comprehensive EAs with a countrywide focus, with special attention given to
the review of the adequacy and sustainability of regulations and institutional mechanisms for
protecting sensitive ecosystems and communities. The EA should be prepared as early as possible
after project identification, its recommendations should be reflected in project design, and
extensive consultations with all potential stakeholders are critical. Finally, appropnate mitigation
rules and enforcement institutions should be developed as early as possible.
>  When most environmental responsibilities are delegated to a sector ministry, as in Ecuador,
it is important to reduce potential internal conflicts of interest between the sector ministry's
roles as investment promoter and environmental control and enforcement agency, by
clearly separating the responsibility for these functions. Furthermore, sector oversight
capacity also needs to be built up within the Ministry of the Environment, and support of
local communities needs to be secured.
>  Projects and programs involving natural resources extraction need to be carefully and
proactively managed. The participation of NGOs and potentially affected local
community associations in the monitoring of impacts was effective in Ecuador.
>  For technical assistance projects addressing complex environmental, social and
regulatory issues, continued Bank involvement beyond project closure would enhance the
likelihood of sustainability. In Ecuador, the abrupt cut- off of the Bank's and
cofmanciers'support resulted in program discontmuity and lack of replication of project
achievements., m particular in the ASM program.
>  Programs aiming at reducmg or eliminating negative impacts from artisanal and informal
small-scale mmning require continuity over-time, flexible timing, and a comprehensive
approach oriented toward addressing social, financial, and managerial aspects as well as
legal and technical aspects.
Attachment



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to venfy that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from expenence. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. Assessments are conducted one to seven years after a project has closed. In selecting
operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant
to upcoming country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested
assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches
selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are incorporated into the document that is sent to the
Bank's Board. When an assessment report is released to the Board, it is also widely distnbuted within the Bank
and to concemed authorities in member countries.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the Worid Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arnve at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation cntenon (complete definitions and descriptions of factors
considered are available on the OED website: http://wbln1O23.woridbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/
232d43aeO9e87ac985256966007cc257/acaeb95358e99e578525698cO0519Oda?OpenDocument).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the projects objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.
Sustalnability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact. The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which denves from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensunng adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatistactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings .......................                                                     iii
Key Staff Responsible ....................... iii
Preface ....................... .v
Background .1.......................
Country Economic Background ....... .....  ........................ .....I.... .  ............... ..........j. I
The Mining Sector .. ........ ..................................................... ............  .......................... I
Objectives and Design                                     .2
Implementation                                         .3
Outcome.4
Ratings .4
Relevance- Substantial ....  ........... .................4............ ...............................  4
EJficacy: Substantial ............. ..............S..................... ubsaa.......... ................ ................. .......... ....... 5
Overall Objectives ..........................................................................5.................................................. ...5
Specific Objectives ............   . ................ . .................. ........ ... ... .. ............5
Efficiency - Modest ........ ...... ................................. .. ......... .. ..........  .......... . .. ............. . 9
Institutional Development Impact Substantial ...1.1.. ................ .. ..... .. .. .  .. ............... 11
Sustainabillty Unlikely ..............   . ..    ................... .... .. . ........... ....... . . ..... 12
Borrower Performance. Satisfactory .....    ............ .......... ................ .  .. .... ....14
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .17
Annex B. Table of Specific Objectives and Components .19
Annex C. Main Features of Ecuador's Mining Law .29
Annex D. Environmental Aspects .31
Annex E. Statistical Indicators .36
This report was prepared by Andres Liebenthal (task manager) with Charles Dahan and Domimque
Babelon (consultants), who assessed the project in July 2002. The report was edited by William
Hurlbut and Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.






Prinmcipall Ratings
ICR'                       ES                         PPAR
Outcome                      Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                     Likely                     Unlikely
Institutional
Development Impact            Substantial                Substantial                Substantial
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently venfy the findings
of the ICR
Kiey Stafi Responsible
Project                           Country Director           Division Chiefi             Task
Sector Director        Manager/Leader
Appraisal                        Ping-Cheung Loh              Paul Meo             Aura Garcia de
Truslow
Completion                        Isabel Guerrero         Peter van der Veen       Gotthard Walser






v
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Ecuador Mining
Development and Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project, for which the Bank
approved a loan (Loan 3655 EC) for US$14 million equivalent on October 21, 1993. The credit
closed on December 31, 2000, eighteen months after the original date.
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the
LAC Region (Report no. 22365, December 26, 2000), the Memorandum and Recommendation of
the President (Report no. P5988-EC, September 22, 1993), the Loan Agreement, project files,
economic reports from the Region, and discussion with Bank staff. An Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) mission visited Ecuador in July 2002 to review the long-term impact of the
project and discuss the project results and effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with
representatives of the government, mining associations and companies, NGOs, and local
communities. The cooperation and assistance of current and former government officials in the
Ministry of Energy and Mines are gratefully acknowledged.
A year and a half after project completion, this PPAR seeks to validate previous ratings
of the project in light of events since completion and to assess the longer-term economic, social,
institutional, and environmental sustamability and impact of the activities supported by the
project.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the borrower
for comments but none were received.






1
BACKGROUND
Country Economic Background
1.    Ecuador is a small-size economy with an estimated population of about 12 million. It is
characterized by great geographical, ethnic, and cultural diversity between its Pacific coast (the center
of agricultural exports and commerce, with the major port of Guayaquil), the Andean Highlands
(based on traditional small-scale agriculture, and where the capital city, Quito, is located), and the
sparsely populated Amazon region (where petroleum development took place). Incidence of poverty
is very high, with close to 70 percent of the population living in poverty (1999), including 34 percent
in extreme poverty. Income distribution is highly skewed.
2.     The economy is highly dependent on a few export commodities, predominantly oil, but also
bananas and shrimp. Petroleum development had an especially deep impact on the economy. Oil was
discovered in the 1960s and fueled a major economic boom in the 1970s. The collapse in oil prices in
the early 1980s had severe consequences: since then overall growth has been low or negative and
there have been recurring debt crises and a series of stop-and-go restructuring and reform attempts. In
March 2000, following a major economic crisis in 1999, the government announced an economic
adjustment and reform program anchored in the full dollarization of the economy.
3.     Because of regional and racial tensions, the central government, especially the office of the
president, is relatively weak. Furthermore, the political system is highly fragmented, and getting
legislation passed requires constantly shifting coalitions and alliances between a large number of
parties and interest groups. This has resulted in the frequent changes in administration and ousting of
ministers by Congress.
The Mining Sector
4.     Ecuador does not have a long or significant tradition in mining and does not have a
significant commercial-scale mining industry. In the early 1990s, the only commercial-scale operation
was the Portovelo-Zaruma mine, a gold and silver mine that had been in operation since 1880 and that
had just been closed down. The mine had been private until its closure, when the concession expired
and it fell into the government's hands. It had then been invaded by informal workers. The
government intended to privatize the mine after resolving outstanding labor and social issues
associated with its operation (related to the mine's large number of informal workers). The
government did not hold large interests in other mining operations or rights to large reserved areas.
5.     During the 1980s, a gold rush by informal miners in southern Ecuador had led to the
development of significant artisanal and small-scale mining activities. This affected not only the
Portovelo-Zaruma area but also the areas around Ponce-Enriquez (in the South-Western Cordillera,
near the banana and shrimp farming areas on the coast) and Nambija (in the southeast, bordering the
Amazon region). By 1990, up to 40,000 persons originating from poor Andean rural areas were
engaged in informal mining for gold, with significant adverse effects. Besides being unstructured,
unregulated, and untaxed, these low-technology activities were inefficient (recovering only 50 to 70
percent of the gold contained in the ore). They also risked contaminating rivers, endangering
downstream population centers as well as major agricultural and acquacultural export areas (banana
and shrimp). They also posed serious health hazards to miners and neighboring communities.
6.    In the early 1990s, favorable world metal prices and a booming market worldwide stimulated
interest from international mining companies for prospecting commercial-scale metallic ores in many
countries. The Government of Ecuador started viewing the development of the private commercial



2
mining sector as potentially important to achieve export diversification, halt environmental
degradation, and increase govemment revenues.
The Institutional IFramework
7.     The World Bank became involved in Ecuador's mining sector in 1989, through economic and
sector work carried out in parallel with the preparation of the Mining Development and
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project. Bank assistance contributed to the design of a
new mining law, passed in 1991, and a new institutional structure. The law, while a substantial
improvement, still imposed a number of requirements with significant discretionary elements for the
periodic renewal of concessions or their transformation, it lacked clarity with respect to criteria for
cancellation of concessions, and it imposed a relatively high tax burden on concessions compared to
laws in neighboring countries.
8.     Before the 1991 Mining Law, the institutional framework in place was unsuited to the tasks
needed to effectively promote and develop the sector. All data gathering and regulatory functions had
been concentrated in the same semi-autonomous government institution, but the same agency was
also investor and promoter of private investments, creating strong conflicts of interest. Mining
information was non-existent and the concession process was characterized by long titling registration
times, pre-emptive speculation, and corruption. The new Mining Law redefined the mandates,
responsibilities, and functions of the different public mining institutions to better match functions of a
modem state as a regulator and provider of basic information infrastructure. Concessioning and title
registration functions were assigned to a National Directorate of Mines (DINAMI), under the
Undersecretariat of Mines. Corporate and mining sector promotion functions were assigned to a
Corporation for Geological, Mining, and Metallurgical Research and Development (CODIGEM).
Environmental functions were assigned to the National Directorate for the Environment (DINAMA),
under MEM' s Environmental Undersecretariat. This framework was generally along the lines
recommended by the Bank, except for CODIGEM (which still presented conflicts of interest between
its corporate and geological and mineral research functions).
OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
9.     The overall objectives of the project were to (a) assist the govemment in the proper
implementation of the Mining Law, and thus attract new private mining investment and support the
systematic development of increased, yet environmentally sound, mineral production'; and (b) arrest
and mitigate mining-related environmental degradation that results from the use of primitive and
inadequate technology by artisanal and small-scale mining operations.
10.    The specific objectives included (a) assisting the govemment in implementing its l99IMining
Law by strengthening sectoral institutions both at the policy and core function levels; (b) upgrading
the technology used by small-scale miners; (c) instituting applicable environmental standards and
a monitoring system; (d) helping contain and possibly detoxify mining-related hazardous wastes; and
(e) monitoring mining-related health issues among the mining communities.
11.    To achieve these objectives the project had three main components:
(a) Policy Management - This component consisted of technical assistance, support, and in-
service training to help apply and revise the Mining Law and associated regulations, develop
1. The overall objectives are as listed in the Loan Agreement. In the Memorandum of the President, the wording of this objective
is as follows: "to attract new pnvate mining investment and support the systematic development of increased, yet
environmentally sound, mineral production."



3
environmental regulations, and structure and strengthen sector institutions. Recipient
institutions were MEM, DINAMI, DINAMA, and CODIGEM (later renamed DINAGE). The
component focused on policy, legal, institutional, technical, and management aspects. It was
expected at appraisal to cost US$2.6 million (actual cost was US$2.86 million).
(b) Policy Implementation - This component included (i) environmental management activities,
with the assistance of the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), to develop
systematic environmental monitoring and data baseline of the environmental pollution and
health hazards caused by mining, and to implement methods to rehabilitate areas that had been
environmentally degraded by mining activities and prevent further environmental degradation;
(ii) the development of a geological information infrastructure, with the assistance of the
Department for International Development2 (DFID, UK), including regional geological maps
and regional thematic maps of Ecuador's Westem Cordillera, and appropriate prospection
methodologies; (iii) the development of information and management systems, with SIDA
assistance, including a mining information system that would provide public access to mining
documentation and databases, and implementation of an improved mining cadastre; and (iv)
technical assistance to the artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) sector, with SIDA
assistance, with emphasis on demonstrating the use of simple, yet effective, equipment and
techniques for improving ore recovery and reducing environmental contamination, and
identification of suitable potential private partners for joint ventures in mining. The component
was expected at appraisal to cost US$18.3 million (actual cost was US$16.43 million).
(c) Establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage and coordinate project
activities. The component was expected at appraisal to cost US$0.8 million (actual cost was
US$1.26 million).
12.    Under the Loan Agreement, strong limitations were agreed to the State's direct involvement in
mining. The government agreed to (a) separate the corporate and promotion functions of CODIGEM; (b)
not create new or expand special mining zones and/or mining reserve areas, and not to start new
operations outside these areas, directly or through CODIGEM; and (c) divest the Portovelo mine and
other CODIGEM interests.
13.   During implementation, there was no formal revision of the.original project objectives or of the
components. However, some components were refocused to reflect new priorities. In particular, (a)
considerably more effort was put into reforming the Mining Law than planned at appraisal; (b)
environmental management was extended to promote greater involvement of local communities and
balanced relationships between mining and the community; and (c) assistance to artisanal and small-scale
mining shifted from a purely technical and economic approach toward a more comprehensive approach
including legal and managerial assistance to miners and their associations, assistance to local
communities in the establishment of environmental committees, and health care and monitoring and
awareness programs.
IMPLEMENTATION
14.   The project closed in December 2000, eighteen months beyond the original date. The loan
became effective only in July 1994, after a nine-month delay due to late establishment of the Project
Coordination Unit. Further delays occurred during implementation. These were attributed to (a) slow
finalization of co-financing arrangements with BITS, of Sweden (later integrated into SIDA) and ODA
(which later on became DFID) (b) frequent changes in government and MEM administrations, which led
2. Formerly Overseas Development Administration (ODA)



4
to uneven commitment to the project objectives, at times, political interference in project management
and allocation of funds, occasional backsliding and policy reversals (in particular during the period from
mid-1996 to early 1998), and delays in processing of required legal and institutional changes.
15.    Despite a generally unstable environment, the project was essentially implemented as planned.
Annex B presents the project-specific objectives, detailed associated components, together with
achievements, outputs, and outcomes. Actual project costs (US$20.55 million) were 14 percent less than
planned at appraisal (US$25 million). An amount of US$3 million out of the Bank loan was cancelled (21
percent of the loan amount).
OUTCOME
16.    The project outcome was moderately satisfactory. Project objectives were substantially relevant to
current and past Bank assistance strategy, in particular as they relate to private sector-led growth and
environmental management. The project substantially met its objectives of establishing a modem regulatory
framework for the mining sector and of strengthening and restructuring the public mining institutions. It also
made important contributions to documenting the extent and impact of pollution created by artisanal and
small-scale mining on the environment and on the health of miners and surrounding communities; to
increasing awareness of environmental degradation and mobilizing and training affected communities to
work toward reducing these impacts; to promoting changes to less-polluting technologies and organizational
models among miners; to implementing a demonstration common liquid effluent settling pond; and to
proposing comprehensive management plans in the two most critical areas. However, efficiency was
modest, as depressed market conditions worldwide for gold and other metals and ores, and country risks,
have prevented significant increases in private sector interest and investments in the sector, and no
significant discovery has been made. Also, while the project prepared the ground for arresting and reducing
pollution from small-scale mining, it did not achieve it on a large scale, as was originally intended. The
project design proved overly ambitious in this respect and failed to identify the impact of economic
constraints (particularly as gold prices decreased substantially) on the willingness and ability of small-scale
miners to invest in sub-regional common disposal facilities , especially in the absence of long-term
financing at reasonable terms and of pressure from environmental authorities.
RATINGS
Relevance: Substantial
17.    The project was consistent with the Borrower's development priorities and with Bank assistance
objectives as spelled in out the 1993 CAS for Ecuador.3 Bank strategy at the time had three broad
objectives: improving basic services targeted to the poor; reforming the public sector and strengthening
public finances; and strengthening the basis for private sector-led growth. The project was fully consistent
with the third objective, as it sought to reduce vulnerability of the economy by diversifying its productive,
revenue, and export base through private sector-led growth in a new sector; and to maintain current export
performance (by avoiding environmental damage to traditional exporting areas).
18.    The project is also substantially consistent with the current Bank CAS4 objectives, which are to
(a) protect the poor; (b) restore macro-financial stability and growth recovery (by improving fiscal and
public sector management, rehabilitating the banking system, and expanding the role of the private
sector); and (c) support sustainable development and poverty reduction (including by improving
environmental management). Although the mining sector is no longer the subject of specific Bank
3. Report P-5657-EC, dated May 5, 1993.
4. As spelled out in the Joint IBRD/IFC Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, dated June 1, 2000 (Report 20444)



5
attention, the project remains generally consistent with the objectives of expanding the role of the private
sector, and improving environmental management.
Efficacy: Substantial
19.   Efficacy in reaching most overall and specific objectives is rated substantial, although the project
has not had the intended effects of attracting private mining investments and its contribution to arresting
mining-related environmental degradation from artisanal and small-scale mining was modest. An overall
"substantial" rating is nevertheless justified because (a) depressed metal and mineral markets have, since
1997, substantially reduced interest in new exploration worldwide, a factor external to the project, which
may reverse itself in the future; and (b) the objective of arresting environmental degradation and
mitigating damage from small-scale mining was unrealistic under a technical assistance project, given the
magnitude of investments required, the large number of artisanal small-scale miners, and the difficulty for
them to reach agreement on common systems required to reduce costs.
Overall Objectives
20.   Implement the Mining Law, thus attracting new private mining investment - Efficacy: Substantial.
The investment environment was significantly improved through the reform of both legal and institutional
frameworks according to best practice, as further detailed in the paragraphs below. However, due to the
worldwide slump in the mining sector by the time these frameworks became operational, and high
country risk due to severe national economic and political difficulties in the late 1990s, the anticipated
increases in mining production and diversification were not achieved, and exploration efforts for larger
projects did not materialize. However, this is not necessarily an indication of project failure, because,
when world markets recover, Ecuador will be in a position to compete on equal footing with its neighbors
to attract new investment in exploration.
21.   Arrest mining-related environmental degradation - Efficacy: Modest. Environmental regulations
and standards were developed, and the institutional capacity of MEM for their enforcement has improved.
Furthermore, although late, comprehensive consultation mechanisms for the mining sector are being
developed. However, effectiveness of monitoring and enforcement remains hampered by insufficient
staffing and budget and questionable administrative reporting lines (para.33). With respect to the ASM
sector, the project helped demonstrate the feasibility of reducing ASM-related contamination; succeeded
in promoting change to less-polluting processing technologies; and increased environmental, health, and
safety awareness among miners, local governments, and affected communities, and increased their
environmental management capacity. However, the overall project objective of "arresting" degradation
and mitigating damage from inadequate containment of tailings proved unrealistic, in the absence of
supportive market conditions, financing mechanisms, and stronger enforcement.
Specific Objectives
22.    The project generally achieved its specific objectives. Details on achievements and outcome of
activities related to each one of these objectives are presented in Annex B.
23.   Assist in implementing the mining law by strengthening sector institutions - Efficacy: Substantial.
Although with some delays, the project achieved important results in both the establishment of a legal
framework and institutional strengthening:
> The country now has a modem mining law, complemented by regulations needed to enforce it, as
also stated by the ICR. The regulations are suitable to attracting private sector investment and
supporting the systematic and environmentally sound development of industrial scale mining



6
production. The law provides a competitive legal basis for mining activities (its main features are
summarized in Annex C) and is close to best practice. It is simple, flexible, transparent, and non-
discretionary, and discourages speculative holding. In line with recommendations made by
project advisers, the 1991 law was amended in August 2000 in several important respects, in
order to increase private sector interest and institutional sustainability: royalties were eliminated,
concession fees were increased (with a schedule of progressively increasing fees overtime),
security of tenure was increased (by specifying non-payment of concession fees as the only
ground for cancellation of concessions besides voluntary relinquishment) and stability of legal
and tax rules was enhanced. Finally, the amendment allocated the proceeds of concession fees
and other mining revenues in priority to public mining institutions, helping to ensure their
financial sustainability.
>  Regulations were prepared with project assistance and approved: general regulations to the law,
which were issued in 1991, were revised in April 2001; mining safety regulations were issued in
July 1996; and environmental regulations were issued in September 1997. The preparation of the
mining environmental regulations was the first participatory experience in legal proposals in
Ecuador. Further details on applicable environmental regulations are presented in Annex D.
>  The institutions were further restructured and their capacity was strengthened. As mentioned in
the ICR, the role of the government as owner and operator of mines was discontinued:
CODIGEM's corporate functions were eliminated, and all state interests were privatized. In 1999,
CODIGEM was transformed into DINAGE (National Geological Directorate), a department
under SSM, with functions limited to production of geo-based information and promotion
materials. A Mining Environmental Unit (Unidad Ambiental Minera, or UAM) was created under
SSM to perform environmental monitoring functions and carry out a first review of
environmental impact studies and environmental management plans submitted by concessionaires
(approval authority remaining with MEM's Undersecretary of Environment). Staffing of all SSM
departments was rationalized and reduced from 240 to 120 persons.
>  State-of-the-art maps and databases were developed for the Western Cordillera (35,000 square
kilometers, versus 24,000 planned at appraisal), which as mentioned in the ICR, can also be used
for land use planning and management, management of water resources and the environment,
prevention of natural disasters, and other uses, as well as for mining sector development
(geological and thematic mapping of the Westem Cordillera). Furthermore, as a result of an
investigation by a Bank Inspection Panel (in response to concern of stakeholders on the use of
geo-data, see Box), a formal system to monitor the use of geo-data has been put in place.
>  A Mining Cadastre Administration System was developed. By allowing transparent and up-to-
date management of mining concessions and property rights, it is likely to be a key factor to
attracting and sustaining mining investments, monitoring sector activities and optimizing sector
contribution to regional development. The system was highly praised by all those consulted as
efficient, fair, and corruption-free. The set-up of an efficient mining cadaster based on a
transparent set of regulations is central to good sector governance and is a major achievement of
the project. .It has led to the relinquishment of substantial areas previously held preemptively for
speculation purposes. As shown in Table E-1, while the number of titles granted in July 2002 was
three times as many as in May 1991, the total area conceded was only about 30 percent of that
conceded in 1991 (and the average concession size was only 10 percent of pre-project average
size). Total area conceded so far (10,160 square kilometers) accounts for only about a third of all
areas investigated under the geo-information component.



7
>  The ASM sector is now largely fonnalized. As mentioned in the ICR, of the 169 ASM groups
that existed before 1995, all have now been formalized as associations or cooperatives and 166
have been granted a legal title. New land invasions by informal miners have not occurred in
recent years. A Chamber of Small-scale Mining has been established.
>  Awareness of public authorities of the need to improve community consultation and participatory
processes in mining activities grew substantially during implementation, particularly from 1997
onward, after an international conference in Quito on the subject in May 1997. A first study was
carried out under the project in 1996 (and published in 1997 for the Quito Conference) of
relationships of small-scale gold mining activities to indigenous communities, to be used as a
basis for the development of consultation and conflict resolution mechanisms. Later, an
assessment of community perceptions in the Intag valley was carried out in connection with the
Bank Inspection Panel investigation (Box). Comprehensive guidelines for consultations with
affected communities are currently being developed for the mining sector.
24.    Upgrading small-scale mining technology - Efficacy: Substantial. Artisanal and small-scale gold
muning technologies were improved in the pilot area of Ponce Enriquez (where mining is done more by
small-scale mining enterprises than by artisan families). In parrallel with managenal and organizational
improvements and with legalization, the project successfully promoted the switching to cyanidation
processes and reduced, safer, and more efficient use of mercury, which increased efficiency of ore
recovery, lowered use of mercury, and reduced negative environmental impacts and safety and health
hazards. SSMs visited and most stakeholders met in the Ponce Enriquez mining region confirmed that
use and pollution from mercury have significantly been reduced in the region.
25.   Instituting applicable environmental standards and monitoring system - Efficacy: Substantial.
>  Mining Environmental Regulations were passed in September1997, completing existing norms
under the Water and Contamination Prevention and Control laws and their regulations, and the
Mercury Use in Mining norm (Annex D). However, the national environmental limits for
effluents discharged to natural watercourses, still do not include criteria for metal contents.
Modifications to the Mining Environmental Regulations, which are under preparation in the
Undersecretariat of Environmental Protection of MEM, are expected to address this issue.
>  Extensive monitoring of the four most important southern mning areas took place dunng the
period 1996-99, and an Environmental Information System with extensive baseline data on
environmental quality was developed (containing information on waters soils, river sediments,
and biota). The extensive publication and diffusion of the monitoring results helped raise
environmental awareness in society, local authorities, and mining communities. The monitoring
program helped define the principal contaminants (mercury, cyanide, and heavy metals) and their
origin; and pointed to the need for adequate contamment facilities, with priority given to the most
affected regions of Ponce Enriquez and Portovelo-Zaruma. This work also demonstrated that,
while the biota in rivers and estuaries was affected, downstream banana and shrimp farming
activities had so far not been affected. Participation of small-scale miners and local communities
in environmental monitoring and management was ensured through local environmental
committees established in two municipalities under the project. These local conrmttees were
trained in simple biological monitoring methods that were developed under the project
>  The workload imposed by the review of a large number of environmental assessments led UAM
to discontinue monitoring activities after 1999 (Annex B). This monitoring work was not
contracted out either. Also, the sustainability of local environmental management committees is
uncertain in the absence of strong continued assistance and collaboration from the regional
offices of DINAMI, and of independent and regular financial resources.



8
Box. Inspectiom PaneRl
In December, 1999, the Inspection Panel registered a request for inspection by an NGO and a farmers' association from the Intag
valley (northern Ecuador) claimung that the public release of maps with mineral data collected under the project's geo-inforination
component would attract mining companies and informal mniners. The requesters maintained that mining activities in these areas
would be unavoidable-should the geo-informatbon maps and data reveal the existence of mining potential in the region, and would
result in significant degradation of critical natural habitats, including the ecosystem of El Choco and the Cotacachi-Cayapas
Ecological Reserve.
The Panel concluded that Bank management had been substantially in compliance with Bank safeguard policies (including on
Environmental Assessment, except in some respects, and Wildlands) and Project Supervision Policies. It concluded that the maps
alone, even in conjunction with the geo-chemical data, were insufficient to locate ore deposits. Furthermore, Ecuador's legislation
only pernuts mining activities in protected areas by exception, subject to strict environmental controls, and the Intag Valley, adjacent
to the Cotacachi-Cayapas reserve, was excluded from the thematic mapping sub-component of the project. The Panel did not find any
evidence that the Cotacachi-Cayapas reserve suffered substantial or permanent damage as a result of the project's sampling activities.
Nevertheless, the Panel found that the environmental assessment (EA) had covered only southern Ecuador, focusing on the
environmental and social impacts of existing small-scale muning activities. The EA did not address the broader issue of the likely
impact of increased mining activity in the country as a whole, including the north, and, therefore, in limiting the spatial/geographical
scope oftheEA, the Bank was not in compliance with the relevant provisions of OD4.01 and OD4.00, Annex A. Furthermore, theEA
focused on pollution caused by artisanal mining activities, but did not address issues of the living environment (possible impact on
Ecuador's nch biodiversity). Finally, there had been no nationwide consultation process carred out on the basis of the draft EA with
communities that could be affected by mining activities or their representative associations. Consequently, the Bank was not in
compliance with the requirements of OD4.01 concenming both the provision of adequate baseline environmental data tn the EA report
and consultation dunng the preparation of the project.
Shortly before an Inspection Panel request was received by the Bank, the Project Coordination Unit asked a well-known community
development NGO to perform a sociological assessment of the Intag Valley and gather the views of stakeholders on thematic
mapping. The assessment found that opposition to muning-related activities stemmed from a deep-rooted fear among small rural
tenants and landowners with no secure tenure to their land, that muning activities on their lands could lead to their expulsion. Other
segments feared that incipient eco-tounsm activities associated with the reserve could be deeply affected. Finally, relationships with
mining companies had been very tense in the region because of a heavily polluting cement plant present in the area (Selva Alegre)5 )
and of refusal by a foreign company to provide any information about its exploration activities in the Junin area between 1991 and
1997 (the company was eventually ousted by the community). The study recommended that (a) information campaigns should be
carned out aiming at informing communities about the muning activity, its risks and benefits, life cycle, environmental aspects, legal
framework, and nghts and obligations of the State, the muning companies, and the population; (b) that the 1998 constitutional
provisions requiring prior consultations with the population should be applied; and (c) a system to register purchasers of the geo-data
and maps, and to monitor their use should be designed and established
After loan closing, in January 2001, the Ministry of the Environment and MEM awarded a two-year contract to two reputable
environmental NGOs to monitor the use of geological and thematic information in protected areas of the Westem Cordillera and prevent
unauthonzed activities in such areas (seven national parks and ecological reserves, including Cotacachi-Cayapas). The temis of Reference
forthis contract weredraftedin concertation with NGOs. TheBank also providedffunding forthisprojectthroughtheCivil SocietyFund.
A network was set up whereby trained local residents (seven focal points, one in each area) would report suspicious mining-related
activity to a central monitoring center. Procedures to channel complaints and investigate them were set-up. Well-founded encroachments
are reported to MEM and MA for action. All complaints and status reports are available on the Internet. Finally, all purchasers of the
thematic and geological mapping information have to sign a license agreement with MEM in which they commit to follow regulations
regarding the use of the infonnation and to communicate the use of this infornation to both MEM and the Ministry of the Environment.
Over the past 18 months, three complaints were received, but only one was related to mining. Tlus recent complaint concerns a quarry in
operation at the limit of the Pululahua Geo-botamcal Reserve. After field investgation, it was found that, while the company was indeed
exceeding the boundaries of its concession according to MEM coordinates, there was uncertainty whether these operations were or not
within the boundaries of the Reserve, given lack of precision of limits in the decree establishing the reserve This case raised the need
again for MA and MEM to establish better consistency and accuracy in defining boundaries of protected areas and concessions6. The
matter was referred to both ministries for action (MEM was about to perform another verification). The momtonng system thus appears to
be working. However, the contract expires in January 2003 and it is uncertain at this point whether this important contract will be
extended, and with which financing source
5 The Selva Alegre case was eventually resolved between 1998 and 2000 through a dialogue process with the cement company,
which was facilitated by an NGO contracted by the affected indigenous community-This case was presented in June 2002 at a
World Bank- sponsored muning seminar on communities as a best practice case.
6 The concessions are located using differential GPS methodologies. The theme of a more precise definition of protected
boundanes has reportedly been discussed many times by MEM and INEFAN and later MA, but much remains to be done



9
26.    The recognition of the importance of proper community consultation and participation to long-term
sustainability of mining activities led the munistry to contract the NGO that had performed the sociological
assessment of the Intag Valley to coordinate the work of a Technical Committee to prepare Guidelines for
Consultation with Communities for the Mining sector. This work has a strong participatory approach and is
based on extensive workshops with stakeholders (state and local govemments, NGOs, indigenous and other
communities) as well on detailed assessments of five case studies (including that of the Intag Valley). Draft
guidelines are expected by November 2002. If well received, these could later be used as the basis for
consultation regulations similar to those under preparation for the oil sector.Helping contain and possibly
detoxify mining related hazardous wastes. Efficacy: modest. The substantial reduction in the use of
mercury has also substantially reduced toxicity of tailings and effluents, in particular in the Ponce
Enriquez and Portovelo-Zaruma areas,. With project assistance, some individual mines in Ponce Enriquez
have also improved their tailing containment facilities and are recycling water. However, the
effectiveness of these measures in the rainy season has not been verified. A small demonstration common
liquid effluent settling pond was built and some reforestation activities are being implemented with the
participation of producers. However, the major joint investments needed for an effective containment of
tailings and water/liquid effluent management systems, which were identified under two comprehensive
environmental management plans prepared for the two areas still most critically affected by ASM (Ponce
Enriquez and Portovelo-Zaruma7) were not implemented. Major constraints are lack of incentives
associated with low intemational prices of gold, lack of appropriate financing sources and terms, the
difficulty in reaching agreements between a large number of stakeholders of different sizes and
technological levels, and, given the difficult social issues involved, still weak enforcement by MEM.8
27.    Monitoring mining-related health issues among the mining communities - Efficacy: Substantial.
Baseline data, methods, and procedures for mining occupational health hazard investigation were
developed and prevention measures were proposed, especially for diseases related to mercury, silicosis,
and deafness. A Mining Occupational Health Hazard Information System (SIREM) was established and
results were extensively published and distributed. About 700 miners were provided with their individual
health diagnostics and information campaigns and training programs were organized to reach muners and
their families in all areas and train them in safety and prevention of health hazards. The Cooperative of
Bella Rica in Ponce Enriquez is still providing medical follow-up to workers. A health center specialized
in mining-originated diseases was built in Ponce Enriquez and specialized equipment, including X-ray
equipment for silicosis diagnosis was financed under the project. However, as of mid-2002, this
equipment was still not operational, casting serious doubt on the efficiency of the health center. The
mission was unable to verify the satisfactory operation of the health center, which was inoperative
because the center's health personnel were on strike. Nevertheless, in all ASM areas, it appears that
among mine owners and workers and their families, awareness of health and safety risks associated with
mining and of prevention measures has considerably increased. In Ponce Enriquez, representatives of the
local Environmental Management Committee reported that exposure to mercury vapors from archaic
amalgam buming processes had virtually disappeared in the area.
Efficiency - Modest
28.    A major objective of the project was to attract new private mining investment and support the
systematic development of increased mineral production, resulting in increased exports and fiscal
contributions. At appraisal,9 the estimated production potential of metallic minerals (in 1991 prices) was
estimated to increase from US$144 million (including US$140.8 million for a total estimated production
7. Operations at Nambija, an area where development of informal artisanal nmning had been very chaotic, appear to have stopped
for all practical purposes.
8. Enforcement may improve, however. Dunng the assessment mission, the Regional Director of MEM/DINAMI stated thatlS
ASMs soon could be closed for non-compliance with their environmental management plans.
9. Annex 1, Table 3 of the MOP



10
of gold of about 12 tons per year) to US$607 million by 2000 (including US$500 million for a production
of 42 tons of gold per year). Despite the considerable improvement in the legal and institutional
framework, these benefits failed to materialize:
)> Production from mining activities has stagnated (Table E-6) and no new major discovery was
made. Formal production of gold (reported by enterprises) has substantially declined.
>  After increasing to US$13.4 million in 1995, investments in exploration and production declined
to US$4.6 million in 1999 (Table E-8). Foreign direct investment has remained minimal (Table
E-9) and foreign companies have tended to withdraw from Ecuador. There are some indications
of recovery in the domestic mining sector since 2000 (particularly in the construction materials
sub-sector), and increasing curiosity from some foreign companies interested in large projects (in
particular with respect to gold and potential for copper deposits), but investment levels remain
very modest. Foreign investors who had bought the rights of ASM miners in Nambija (where one
investor has bought over 95 percent of the titles) and in Portovelo-Zaruma (where an international
company has entered into sharing arrangements with many small concession holders) have
performed some exploration activities but have not yet reported any plan to start exploitation.
>  Govemment revenues from patents and other fees reflect the development of the sector (Table E-
10). After increasing to US$2.1 million in 1997, they decreased to about US$0.85 million by
2001. Elimination of royalties largely contributed to the decrease.
29.    The main reasons for these disappointing results follow, in order of importance:
>  Changes promoted by the project came too late for Ecuador to take advantage of the world
mining boom of the early 1990s (while the project was being prepared). This boom, brought
about by high metal prices on the world markets, had caused exploration investments worldwide
to double, in particular by "junior companies." This boom ended in 1997, following a major
scandal involving ajunior company (BRE-X) and its subsequent bankruptcy as well as the failure
of many other junior companies. Also, world prices fell starting 1997 (the Bank index of metals
and minerals prices for the period January-July 2002, in current terms, was still only 73 percent
of its 1990 value). As a result, exploration investments worldwide have fallen by as much as 60
percent. Large, established companies have focused on the development of their existing, known
deposits, and have refrained from exploring new areas and countries.
>  Official gold production and exports in Ecuador have been in steady decline since 1996, as the
international price of gold fell by about 30 percent, from US$389 per ounce in 1996 to US$271 in
2001 (Table E-7). Official gold statistics are highly unreliable due to large unreported production
and sales."' Nevertheless, reported gold production, which had increased significantly from less
than 1 ton a year before 1994 to more than 7 tons a year in 1995-96 (reflecting increasing
formalization of the small-scale sector rather than increasing production, estimated at appraisal at
about 12 tons per year) fell sharply to less than 3 tons by year 2000. Although this may in part
reflect an increase in tax evasion (in particular, the value-added tax), industry experts and
representatives consulted by the assessment mission concurred that a large part of the small-scale
sector had been deeply affected by the conjunction of the fall in world gold prices; the decline in
ore reserves; and higher cost of mining due to increasing difficulty of ore recovery, lower gold
content, and increased costs of labor and inputs since dollarization. Many of the smallest-scale
mining operations had stopped, as in Nambija, or were barely surviving. In the absence of a
10. Due to the illicit use of gold in money laundering and tax (value-added tax) evasion. Small-scale and artisanal miners sell
their output to domestic traders, who are unwilling to export officially and therefore to pay value-added tax that they will not
recover.



11
substantial increase in gold prices, in the medium term, only the operations able to gain scale by
buying the mining rights of others were expected to survive.
>  The country's political instability, unreliable judicial system, and the 1999 economic crisis act as
disincentives to investment, as the country risk is high-among the five highest in the world.
>  Widespread opposition to extractive activities of large segments of NGOs and rural and
indigenous communities, lack of formal consultation procedures and of clear compensation rules,
may have led some reputable international companies to abandon the country and others to shy
away from further involvement, given less contentious alternatives.
30.    This does not mean, however, that the project will not have the intended effects in the future,
when the world economy and international ore prices become more favorable to resumed exploration
activities, since Ecuador now has a very favorable incentive structure, comparable to its neighbors.
31.    Regarding efficiency of pollution reduction measures, although no rate of return is available,
economic returns to miners of technological changes promoted under the project (switching to
cyanidation and improvements in amalgamation) are likely to be high, as they also greatly improve ore
recovery. Their efficiency probably explains the encouraging adoption rates reported by the ICR in areas
where these technologies were demonstrated. Overall efficiency in terms of reducing pollution of soils
and rivers in the pilot area cannot be assessed because monitoring campaigns were stopped after 1999
(para. 25), so progress relative to the baseline data produced under the project cannot be measured.
Representatives of the Ponce Enriquez local environmental committee, which until 2001 continued to
perform regular biological measurements (based on simple counting of organisms and animal life),
indicated to the assessment mission that one of the most critically affected rivers in the area was showing
signs of recovery. However, UAM did not have the willingness nor the resources to resume testing of
rivers and estuaries for their heavy metal content, as under the Swedish monitoring program.
Institutional Development Impact: Substantial
32.    The institutional framework was restructured and capacities were considerably strengthened. The
Mining sector law was passed and later amended to reflect best practice worldwide. The mandates,
responsibilities, and functions of the different public mining institutions were redefined and staffing was
rationalized and trained. These institutions are likely to be sustainable, as they are funded in large part
from fees derived from mining rights, and this proportion will increase as more concessions are granted.
State-of-the-art maps and databases were developed, available for mining sector development as well as
for land use planning and management. A Mining Cadastre Administration System was implemented,
allowing efficient and transparent management of mining concessions and property rights. Significant
progress is being made toward the development of comprehensive consultation and participation
mechanisms with affected communities.
33.    Adequate environmental and safety regulations were issued and the capacity to monitor the sector
environmental performance and assess environmental impacts was substantially improved within MEM.
The primary responsibility for ensuring that the mining industry is environmentally sustainable was kept
with the sector ministry. This came at a time when there was no overall environmental law; there was just
an environmental coordinating office within the Presidency with no legal enforcement capacity; and there
was an urgent need to establish a capacity to provide a timely response to the on-going mining sector
development (particularly to face the small-scale mining issues). These are areas, however, where further
improvements are necessary and remaining gaps need to be closed: (a)The capacity of UAM to monitor
the environmental performance and compliance with environmental management plans of mining
concessions and apply penalties upon defaulters need to be substantially strengthened; (b) although there
are clear budgetary advantages to locating UAM and the regional environmental engineers under SSM



12
(exclusive dedication to mining, eligibility for funding through proceeds of patent and other fees), there
are also potential conflicts of interests involved because the work assignments of UAM and the regional
environmental engineers depend on a hierarchical structure (Sub-secretariat of Mines) which also has
policy making and mining development promotion functions, and whose budget depends for a large part
on patent fees paid by concessionnaires.. Perhaps UAM and the regional environmental engineers would
be better located under a separate mining environmental division, reporting to MEM's Undersecretary of
Environment. (c) Most importantly, an appropriate oversight capacity of MEM activities should be built
within the newly created Ministry of the Environment" and local communities. (d) Finally, there is some
fragility in all environmental regulations applicable to mining in protected areas, because all of them
(prohibition of mining in protected areas, boundaries of protected areas) are incorporated under
ministerial decrees rather than laws (Annex C).
Sustainability: Unlikely
34.    On balance, sustainability overall is rated as unlikely, though marginally so. Resilience of
regulatory and institutional achievements is substantial, but resilience of environmental achievements is
uncertain. Current uncertainties regarding the ability of MEM to adequately monitor and enforce
compliance with environmental regulations and discontinuity in the program of assistance to the ASM
sector, affect replicability of project outcomes.
35.    Regulatory and institutional achievements aimed at promoting private sector investments in the
mining sector are likely to be sustainable, as they are incorporated in laws, which are difficult to reverse,
and as the State has relinquished its rights to reserve areas and has privatized its mining interests. The
institutions have already been restructured to eliminate unnecessary functions and excess staffing. The
automatic allocation by law of proceeds of concession fees in priority to the two key mining institutions
(DINAMI and DINAGE) should ensure their financial sustainability independently from government
fiscal constraints.
36.    Long-term environmental sustainability of mining activities is uncertain. Heightened
environmental consciousness and the presence of strong and active environmental NGOs is likely to
guarantee environmental sustainability. However, although UAM is struggling with implementation of
recently enacted environmental regulations, its effectiveness can be hampered by inherent conflicts of
interests within the SSM structure and insufficient capacity to monitor environmental performance of
mining concessions and enforce regulations. Long-term sustainability will also depend on the
development of an oversight capacity in the Ministry of the Environment, as well as on effective
participation of local communities. Finally, it will depend on the ability of the government to develop
rules for community consultation and participation that can be accepted by all parties, incorporated into
regulations, and effectively be adopted as rules of conduct by the industry.
37.    Sustainability of environmental and social achievements in the small-scale mining sector is
unlikely, because the program was essentially discontinued after the project closed. Technical assistance
to promote replication of measures promoted under the project has been discontinued; monitoring
campaigns of pollution in rivers has been interrupted (the last campaign was in 1999); local
11 The project task manager considers that the move of UAM under the Under secretary of Environment of MEM would be
counterproductive. At project start, the mining environmental capacity was under the Under-secretanat of Environment, which
was, however, dominated by the hydrocarbon sector, with the consequence that very little attention was paid to mining and
resulted in important delays in the start-up of all environmental components. This was the reason why UAM was eventually set-
up under DINAMI. He further considers that, since UAM and the regional environmental engineers administratively report to
DINAMI, and DINAMI does not have promotion functions, but regulatory ones, the administrative reporting lines are not
inadequate. In the authors'opinion, however, conflict of interests may still exist because DINAMI is not an independent agency
but only a department of the Under-secretariat of Mines. Furthermore, according to the January 1998 Environmental
Regulations, the environmental responsibility for the muning sector rests with MEM's Under-secretariat of Environment



13
environmental committees no longer receive support and are without funds to implement their activities.
Furthermore, in Ponce Enriquez, MEM has not been responding to reports of non-compliance sent last
year. Finally, the health center did not appear to function properly. Only legalization achievements are
self-sustainable, and these will facilitate the ongoing restructuring of the ASM sector, which is driven by
current economic incentives to increase scale and maximize ore recovery (by switching to more efficient
technologies that are also less polluting). This in tum will facilitate environmental control, monitoring,
and enforcement. But this process may take a long time and may slow considerably if intemational gold
and copper prices increase again. Widespread replication of measures promoted under the project would
require continued special programs of technical assistance and training from MEM, regular monitoring
campaigns, financial and political support for local environmental committees, a stronger enforcement
strategy, and better coordination with the Health Ministry. It is also likely to require a program that
provides credit at reasonable terms to help miners implement the required larger tailing containment
measures, particularly in the critical areas of Ponce Enriquez and Portovelo-Zaruma, where common
management plans were developed under the project but not implemented due to lack of adequate
financing (Portovelo-Zaruma) and absense of agreement between SSM associations, the processing mills
and the local/regional/national govemments. The development of programs to provide altemative
economic opportunities in ASM areas to deal with unavaidable mine closures would also contribute to
sustainability.
Bank Performance: Satisfactory
38.    Quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The project was and continues to be consistent with country
and Bank priorities, and was grounded in substantial economic and sector work. The project was complex
and had a large number of components, but all these components constituted a set of coherent actions
required in order to achieve the project's objectives. The difficulty involved in changing environmentally
unsound practices employed by artisanal and small-scale miners was properly identified as a risk. Risks
associated with frequent changes of government and shifting coalitions in Congress were also well
identified (including the possibility of reversing commitments of the government not to expand into
mining operations, and of sustaining institutional improvements brought about under the project).
39.    However, the project's overall objectives were over-ambitious regarding the ability of a technical
assistance project, by itself, to "arrest and correct" negative environmental impacts from a complex and
diverse ASM gold mining sector, particularly in the absence of parallel investment financing mechanisms,
social programs, and well defined enforcement strategies.'2 Furthermore, the potentially large impacts of
cyclical downturns in ore and metal world markets on the resilience of project benefits were not identified.
The main flaw in project design, however, was the lack of a comprehensive environmental assessment (EA)
process and of a consistent communication and public participation strategy. As recorded in the Inspection
Panel report, the EA should have covered the possible impact of increased mining activities in the entire
country (not just the south, where existing mining activities are concentrated), in particular on the country's
vast cntical natural areas. Furthermore, appropriate consultations with stakeholders were not held during
preparation of the EA, particularly with respect to the geo-science component. Yet, during preparation, these
issues were raised intemally and by DFID, one of the co-financiers, but they were largely ignored. An
environmental specialist was not brought on missions until appraisal and no social scientist participated in
any mission from identification through Board approval.
40.    Supervision was Satisfactory. Supervision missions were frequent, averaging 4.5 missions a year,
and their composition had an appropriate skill mix, except for Bank environmental specialists and social
scientists. Social scientists did not participate in missions until late 1999. Bank environmental specialists
did not participate until 2000, but this was due to the presence of DFID and SIDA environmental
specialists in the field, and their participation in Bank missions as well. There was good continuity, the
12 The wording of the specific objectives was more realistic. They call for " upgrading small-scale mining technology" and
"helping contain and possibly detoxify mining related hazardous wastes".



14
government credited the project's success in part to the presence of the same Bank mining specialist for
six years starting May 1995 (who also became the task manager in February 1999). Continued assistance
by the long-term consultants provided by the co-financiers was also essential. The Bank adequately
addressed issues arising during implementation, except that the Bank was initially slow to follow up on
issues raised by DFID regarding the inability of MEM's environmental department to properly monitor
and enforce regulations. Relationships with the government and co-financiers were good and
constructive. The Bank provided expert assistance in the review of proposed legal changes and
regulations. The Bank promoted increased awareness of the importance of preventing adverse impacts of
mining on the community by organizing an international conference on the subject under the auspices of
the Government of Ecuador in May 1997. When the issues leading to the review by the Inspection Panel
arose, the Bank considerably stepped-up consultations with NGOs and communities. Although this
process came late during project implementation, it has had subsequent positive outcomes, including the
establishment of a monitoring system for protected areas and the development (underway) of consultation
guidelines.
41.    Despite the unsatisfactory rating for quality at entry, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory because partial failure to comply with environmental assessment guidelines has not resulted
in adverse impacts, and because these shortfalls were addressed during supervision.
Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
42.    Project preparation by the government was satisfactory overall, despite fluctuations in
commitment and delays, all due to frequent changes in sector ministers and undersecretaries. As
mentioned in the ICR, a change in administration in 1992 substantially lowered commitment in 1992 and
most of 1993. Nevertheless, the passing of the new Mining Law and its general regulations in 1991 and
the creation of new institutional structures during preparation were substantial achievements.
Commitment at working level remained strong throughout the preparation phase.
43.   Implementation was satisfactory overall. Although with some delays, and despite considerable
political instability and several changes in ministers and undersecretaries during implementation, the
government succeeded in implementing important legal and institutional reforms in the sector, and
managed to ensure the financial self-sustainability of some key institutions. This is indeed a remarkable
performance. Furthermore, the government undertook in earnest to implement all the recommendations of
the Inspection Panel, and went further into the design of comprehensive consultation guidelines. In the
implementation of the small-scale mining component, it gave considerable attention to securing the
participation of local communities and to the integration of socio-economic and cultural considerations in
the component's approach. It is unfortunate that discontinuity in the small-scale mining technical
assistance program and some remaining weaknesses in the institutional arrangement for environmental
management threaten the sustainability of project achievements.
44.    The government complied with all major covenants, although with delays. As stated in the ICR,
these delays were mostly due to political instability and to varying degrees of commitment to the project
objectives by the successive administrations. Delays were also due to resistance of some agencies
(CODIGEM) to proposed changes in their functions. Initially, the project was also affected by shortages of
counterpart funds and physical resources.
45. The Project Coordination Unit performed its procurement, financial management, reporting, and
accounting functions well, and addressed initial deficiencies in inter-institutional coordination, consultant
selection, and project accounting. The ICR states that continuity in project coordination was excellent,
with the same project coordinator remaining in its function for more than five years (August 1995 to
December 2000). This project coordinator played a very active role in ensuring satisfactory project
implementation and provided continuity in the midst of frequent changes in MEM. Long-term specialists



15
financed by the co-financiers, who assisted MEM throughout implementation, were also very important to
project success.
LESSONS
> The preparation of comprehensive environmental assessments with a countrywide focus is a very
important step in the preparation and design of technical assistance projects aiming at
encouraging private investments in extractive activities. It is not an additional hurdle in the
process of preparing a project, but a necessary tool to optimize project design and facilitate
implementation, which should be reviewed and updated regularly Also, consultation mechanisms
have to be set up as early as possible during project preparation. In Ecuador, the EA failed to
include a review of the adequacy and sustainability of regulations and institutional mechanisms to
prevent impacts and protect sensitive ecosystems; to assess whether adequate and enforceable
rules existed to protect affected communities; and to organize extensive information campaigns
and consultations with all potential stakeholders countrywide. The sources of opposition to
mining activities which led to the request for an Inspection Panel investigation might have been
identified and addressed during project design if the consultation and information process had
been more robust at the time of preparation of the EA and during the first phases of
implementation..
>  Ideally, strong and independent environmental protection institutions should be responsible for
ensuring that mining development is environmentally and socially sustainable . In countries like
Ecuador, where such an institution is still very weak, a mixed approach has been adopted which
delegates most environmental responsibility to the sector.ministry. However, potential internal
conflicts of interest between the role of MEM as investment promoter and environmental control
and enforcement agency undermine the credibility of the institution with society and with
investors.. Allocating these functions to different vice-ministers would be a step in the right
direction, but it is also likely to be insufficient if the Ministry of the Environment does not also have
appropriate oversight and recourse functions and capabilities. Also, promoting the participation of
civil society and local communities is of fundamental importance.
>  Staffing, resources, and training requirements of departments and units in charge of activities
such as EA review, monitoring, and enforcement need to match each one of the functions
assigned to them. through the design and periodic review of detailed institutional plans that take
into account expected workloads after project completion. Otherwise, as in Ecuador, it is likely
that monitoring activities will receive last priority in the allocation of available managerial,
human and financial resources, and may be abandoned altogether under tight budget constraints.
>  Effective communication, consultation, and stakeholder participation strategies need to be
designed early during preparation and maintained throughout implementation of extractive
industry projects, as stated in the ICR. Ecuador's experience with the participation of NGOs and
potentially affected local community associations in the design and implementation of a
participatory monitoring system to detect and report any encroachment by mining activities in
seven natural reserves, shows that such partnerships can be effective . With respect to geo-
scientific mapping activities, early information and extensive consultations regafding inclusion or
exclusion of ecologically sensitive areas could have effectively alleviated fears of NGOs and
potentially affected communities, including of the Intag valley, and allowed timely adoption of
remedial measures.
>  Programs aiming at reducing or eliminating negative impacts from artisanal and informal small-
scale mining require continuity, flexible timing, and a comprehensive approach oriented toward
addressing social and managerial aspects as well as legal and technical aspects. A single technical



16
assistance project, such as this one, implemented over five years, cannot be expected to resolve
such complicated issues. At best, it succeeds, as in this case, in raising awareness of health and
environmental issues in a pilot area, performing and publicizing baseline diagnosticF, pressing for
legalization, and identifying, demonstrating, and promoting technical and organizational
solutions. Considerably more time and efforts would be required to generalize the adoption of the
recommended measures. The need for an integrated approach to technical assistance
incorporating legal, organizational, and participatory aspects, is highlighted in the ICR as a
lesson. However, in addition to technical assistance, financing at acceptable terms for the larger
investments, such as containment and water/liquid effluent management systems, also needs to be
available. Finally, enforcement would have been much easier if it had coincided with more
favorable gold prices and if programs had been implemented in parallel for the development of
alternative activities able to absorb laid-off workers
>  The involvement and balance of foreign specialists together with national expertise reinforce
capacity building impact and sustainability of TA projects, as stated in the ICR. Under the
project, the involvement of long term foreign specialists, most of them funded by DFID and
SIDA, has contributed to introduce cutting edge methodologies and technologies in Ecuador.
However, the incorporation of a large number of national consultants has helped to insert the
project into the country's reality, and permitted the transfer of technology, contributing to the
sustainability of project results.
>  For technical assistance projects addressing complex environmental, social and regulatory issues,
continued Bank involvement beyond project closure would enhance the likelihood of
sustainability. In Ecuador, the abrupt cut- off of the Bank's and cofmanciers'support resulted in
program discontinuity and lack of replication of project achievements, in particular in the ASM
program. On the other hand, continued Bank involvement after completion to resolve issues in
the Cotacachi-Cayapas area contributed to the design and establishment of a monitoring system
which was also extended to other protected areas.



17                                          Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
MEXINING DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT (L 3655-EC)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal estimate    Actual or current    Actual as percent of
estimate          appraisal estimate
Total project costs                            24 0                20 55                   86%
Loan amount                                    14 0                 11.0                   76%
Cofinancing                                    8.1                  8 8                   109%
Cancellation                                                        3 0
Date physical components completed
Economic rate of retum                    Not applicable        Not applicable
Project Dates
Original                        Actual
Identification  .                                                                  February 1989
Preparation                                                                 August 1989-September 1992
Appraisal                                                                         December 1992
Negotiations                                                                         May 1993
Board Presentation                                                                October 21, 1993
Signing
Effectiveness                                      January 1, 1994                 July 18, 1994
Project Completion
Project Closing                                     June 30,1999                 December 31, 2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Total
Up to Appraisal                   48.7
Appraisal to Board                20 9
Board to Effectiveness
Supervision                       98.9
Completion                         9.6
Total                             178.2



18                                      Annex A
Mission DL)2ta
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance  Rating
Month/Year                Number                Specialty              Implementation  Development
Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation:
03/89                        1                     MS
08/89                        2                   MS, MLS
09/89                        1                     ME
10/89                        1                     ME
05/90                        2                   MS, ME
08/90                        1                     MS
11/90                        1                     MS
05/92                        2                   00, MS
09/92                        1                     00
Appraisal/Negotiations:
12/92                        7            00, ME, ES, DS (Bank);
E, ES (ODA), MS (SIDA)
05/93                        1                     DC
Supervision
06/94                        1                     00                        S              S
11/94                        2                    00, E                      S              S
05/95                        1                     MS                        S              S
06/95                        2                    E. MS                      U              S
08/95                        1                      E                        U              S
09/95                        2                    E, MS                      U              S
10/95                        1                     MS                        U             S
02/96                        4                E, MS, EyE, 00                 U              S
04/96                        1                     MS
07/96                        2                   EyE, MS                     S              S
09/96                        1                     MS                        S              S
10/96                        6         EyE, MS (Bank), ES, MS (ODA)          S              S
PO, ES (SIDA)                  S             S
04/97                        1                     EyE
05/97                        3                 EyE, MS, LS
06/97                        2                   EyE, MS
10/97                        2                   EyE, MS                     S              S
11/97                        6                EyE, MS (Bank)                 S              S
MS(2) (ODA)                   S              S
ES(2) (SIDA)                  S              S
03/98                        2                   EyE, MS                     S              S
09/98                        1                     EyS
11/98                        5                EyE, MS (Bank)
MS (DFID)                    S              S
ES, MS (SIDA)                  S              S
04/99                        1                     MS                        S              S
04/99                        1                     ME
06/99                        1                     MS
10/99                        2                   MS, SS
11/99                        7               MS, SS(2) (Bank)                S              S
MS (DFID)                    S              S
PO(2), ES (SIDA)                S              S
S             S
06/00                        6               SM, MS, ES, SS(3)               S              S
ICR
08/00                        1                     MS
10/00                        3                  MS, SS(2)
11/00                        3         MS, SS(2) (Bank), ES, MS (DFID)
MS: Mining Specialist; MLS: Mining Legal Specialist; ME: Mining Economist; 00: Operabons Officer; ES: Environmental
Specialist, DC: Division Chief; E. Economist; EyE: Energy Economist PO: ProJect Officer; LS: Legal Speciafist; EyS:
Energy Specialist; SS: Social Specialist



19                                                      Annex B
Annex B. Table of Specific Objectives and Components
Objectives     I Components       I Related Activities      Output                                     Outcome
(a) - Assisting the government in Implementing its new Mining Law  Achieved - The project achieved important results in both the establishment of a legal framework
passed in 1991, by strengthening sectoral institutions both at the policy  and insttutional strengthening.
and core funcUfon levels                                    The county now has a modem mining law, completed by general, health and safety, and
environmental regulations to enforce it. The law was recently further improved through an
amendment, and a new general regulation, which provide a sustainable and competitive framework
for the development of the mining sector.
Institutions were restructured and their capacites were strengthened, often according to best
practice. The mandates, responsibilities and functions of the different public mining institutions
were redefined to mach functions of a modern state as a regulator of sector activities (mining and
environment) and provider of basic information infrastructure. The role of the Government as owner
and operator of mines was discontinued. The Natonal Mining Directorate (DINAMI) has now 7
regional offices and an Environmental Mining Unit (UAM). Finally, staffing was rationalized and
reduced from 240 to 120 persons.
State-of-the-art digital maps and data bases were developedwhich, in addibion to mining sector
development, are being utilized for land use planning and management Furthermore, as a result of
an investigatfon by the Bank Inspectfon Panel, (in response to concern of some stakeholders on the
use of geo-data), awareness of public authorites about the need to improve consultation and
participatory processes in mining activities increased, and a formal system to monitor the use of
geo data has been put in place. Also, five natural reserves and two parks of the western cordillera,
which were totally or partially included under the thematic mapping component, are currently
monitored by a participative network of seven local community representatives and two important
NGOs.
A Mining Cadastre Administration System was developed. By allowing transparent and efficient
management of mining concessions and property rights, it is likely to be a key factor in attracting
and sustaining mining investments, monitoring sector activities and optimizing sector contribution
to regional development
A modem and powerful mining, geological and environmental information system was developed
and cooperation fostered between DINAMI, DINAGE and UAM.
The Artisanal and Small Scale Mining (ASM) sector is now largely formalized. 99% of miners have
formal mining rights directly or through associations (cooperative or condominium which have
jointly been granted a legal title), and land invasions by small-scale miners have not been reported
in the past few years.
Finally, there has been significant progress towards the development of more comprehensive
consultation mechanisms for the mining sector.
Outcome.
Project exploration activities had been growing significantly until 1997 and resulted in an increase
in formal gold production from 1 tly to7 tly. But formal gold production decreased afterwards to
about 2.8 tons in 2000. Exploration efforts for larger projects did not mature, due to severe national
economic and political difficulties, worldwide slowdown in the mining sector due to low prices of
metals, high domestic costs due to dollarisation, and contentious relatfonship with local



20                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components          Related Activities        Output                                         Outcome
communities.
A-Policy Management
A-1 Legal Framework   Technical assistance to  A mining law (law 126) was prepared and passed in  Achieved - The project achieved important
MEM in the            May 1991. Three regulabons to the 1991 mining law  results The country now has a modem mining
administrabon and     (law 126) were prepared and approved. They Include:  law, completed by regulations to enforce it,
refinement of the     (a) general regulations (October 1991): (b) mining  which provide a sustainable and compebbve
regulatory framework.  safety regulations (July 1996); and (c) environmental  framework for the development of the mining
regulations (September 1997)                   sector.
A draft new mining law, improving on fiscal,   Significant progress Is being made in the
environmental and social aspects, and further  development of more comprehensive
simplifying and strengthening mining rights was  consultation mechanisms for the mining sector.
prepared and subjected to an open and broad
consultation process. It was presented to Congress
early In 1999, but not debated due general polibcal
difficultes at the time. Instead, most of the elements of
the draft law were incorporated In an amendment to the
Mining Law and passed by Congress in August 2000
(annex C).
Finally, amended general regulations to the mining law
were published in April 2001.
The new mining framework is now simple and
transparent and provides considerable secunty and
stability to investors. Titles are granted on first come
first served basis' and discretionary elements in
approval of concessions were eliminated. The mining
concession gives a real property right to the
concessionaire and a single btle which can be divided.
The concession cannot be cancelled, except for
voluntary relinquishment and non payment of patent
fees. Royalties were eliminated. As a result,
speculation on ttles was considerably reduced.
Remaining for optimization of the mining legal
framework are the consolidation of the mining law, and
critena for beeter qualification of consultants for the
preparation of EAs and environmental audits
With assistance from an NGO, the Social Planning and
Studies Center (CEPLAES), MEM is preparing
guidelines for communities' consultation for the mining
sector. These guidelines are expected to be completed
by the end of November 2002 and may be used as a
basis for future consultation regulatons in the mining
sector.
1. Recently a bidding process was introduced whereby, if two parties apply for a title to the same area within the same hour, the title will be granted to the party that offers the
highest administrative fee.



21                                                            Annex B
Objectfves        Components           Related Activities         Output                                          Outcome
Substanbal improvements were made to the Inibal
A -2 Instituional      Technical Assistance to  reorganization of MEM denved from the 1991 Mining  The projectas insttutonal Development Impact
Strengthening           -   MME               law, which had eliminated the Mining Institute of  was substantial. The insttutional framework was
Ecuador (INEMIN) and created DINAMI and         restructured and capacities were strengthened
-   DINAMI            CODIGEM. An institubonal study was camed-out under  according to best practce. The mandates,
-   DINAMA (now       the project which resulted in the definition of a modem  responsibilities and functons of the different
UAM)              institubonal model for the sector. As a result, an  public mining institutons were modemized and
-   CODIGEM (now     ?opbmized insttutional structure was established and  streamlined and clarfied, to fit with the functons
DINAGE)          implemented, with modemized mandates and
functons. It became fully operabve at the end of 1999.  acibvies (mining and environment) and provider
- The new set of sector entities under the      of basic informaton infrastructure.
In-service training to  Undersecretary of Mining includes: (i) the National  The role of the Govemment as owner and
Ecuadorian staff       Mining Directorate (DINAMI), responsible for the  operator of mines was discontnued
administation of mining nghts and environmental  Personnel was reduced from 240 to 120
permits through the National Mining Cadastre, its 7  persons. However, as a result of the legal
Provision of office and  regional representabons, and a newly created  changed promoted by the project, UAM is
laboratory minor works  Environmental Mining Unit (UAM), (ii) the National  currently overworked by the review of a large
and equipment,         Geological Directorate (DINAGE), focusing on earth  number of Environmental Assessments and
informatics and transport  sciences information management UAM processes the  Management Plans leading to interruption of
vehicles.              environmental permits and maintains the sector  monitonng actvities after 1999 Control and
environmental informabon system, but the        enforcement activites have been weak To
environmental permits are issued by the         address these issues, MEM is currentiy
Undersecretary of Environmental Protecbon.      reorganizing UAM with the assistance of the
- CODIGEM was dissolved, thus eliminabng the    former project coordinator.
corporate functon of the state in the mining sector;
- MEM mining personnel was rabonalized,
- Procedures established,
- Operabonal manuals were prepared;
- Training programs were implemented; and
- Modern office infrastructure, vehicles and equipment
(including computer hardware and software for SIM
and SADMIN) were provided and are being kept up to
date,
- Financial autonomy of these insbtutions was
strengthened through prionty allocation of mining fees
and penalties for their operations.



22                                                           Annex B
Objectives       Components           Related Activities         Output                                        Outcome
B- Policy Implementation
B 2 Geological        Technical assistance of  Geological and thematic maps of 36,000 km2 of  In addition to their use in the development of the
Informabon             DFIC to DINAGE        Ecuador Westem Cordillera were prepared and    mining sector, these state-of-the-art digital maps
Infrastructure        (formally CODIGEM) for  published (including the three major gold mining  and data bases can be utilized for land use
the preparation of    regions of the country)                        planning and management. However, only 3 sets
geological and thematic  100% of the planned regional geological, geochemical,  of maps were bought until mid-2002, and MEM
maps at a scale of    geophysical maps of known ore districts maps were  is considering lowering pnces to attract potential
1 '250,000, covenng a  published by mid-2000                         users
total area of 28,000 km2 
of Ecuador's westem   A series of books and brochures were published and
cordillera.           workshops organized to inform the public (NGOs,  Furthermore, in response to expressed concern
Analysis of known ore  communties, universities, schools) on the potential use  of NGOs regarding the use of geo-data for
distncts in Ecuador and  of the geo-informabon for land use management.  mining actvities in protected areas, and as a
proposal for prospection  Systems were established and techniques developed  result of a Bank Inspection Panel invesbgabon,
methodologies         for the production of maps and geo scienbfic projects in  awareness of public authorities on the need to
Spt digital forms. Most essential professional staff from  improve consultabon and participatory process
Specialized equipment  DINAGE was trained in the use of these tools.  involvin mining acties Increasd A  ormL
and software; vehicles;                                              system to monitor the distribution and use of geo
data, map, imagery and                                               data has been established by inter-ministerial
remote sensing                                                       decree between MEM and ME. The five natural
services.                                                            reserves and two parks of the western cordillera
which were totally or partially included in the
themabc mapping component are being
monitored by a participative net of seven local
community representabves, linked to a
monitoring center maintained by a consortium of
two reputable NGOs, which were competitively
selected. Two complains were received recently
and were processed, demonstrating that the
model functions well
B 3 Improvement and   Technical Assistance to  A computenzed Mining Cadastre Administration  The Mining Cadastre Administration System, in
implementation of a    DINAMI; and computer  System was developed and is operational in all  support of the regulatory and insbtutional
mining cadastre        hardware and software.  DINAMI central and regional offices The informaton,  framework, allows transparent and fast
updated daily, is available to the public on the intemet  processing and management of mining rights
The system is linked to the environmental data base  and is key to attract and sustain mining
and to the geological information system      investments, monitor sector activities and
Up-to-date maps showing the location of mining  optimize sector contribubon to regional
concessions and of protected areas are also available.  development. Corruption, which was pervasive
prior to 1991, appears to have been eliminated
Title requests can be made in any of DINAMI' s 7
regional offices and are processed within 2-3 weeks by
the interested regional office.                99% of the Small Scale Mining (SSM) sector is
now formalized, either individually in the case of
small and medium enterprises, or through
associabons (cooperatives or condominium) of
Artisan and small scale miners, which have been
granted joint legal tites. Land invasions by
informal miners were not reported dunng the last
years However, a large part of the gold
produced by SSMs continues to be sold
informally, due to the value added tax involved.



23                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components          Related Activities         Output                                          Outcome
Processing bme of mining concession
applications was reduced from an average of 10-
12 months to 3 weeks, significantly lower than
the four month appraisal target
Considerable areas have become available for
exploration, which were previously taken by pre-
empbve speculators. As of July 2002, 1,866
concessions had been granted for a total of
about 1 016 million of Ha and 547 (about
370,000 Ha) were being processed. In
companson, in May 1991, the total number of
concessions was only 616, but accounted for
about 3 52 million of Ha The average area per
concession of 545 Ha in 2001 is about ten times
lower than it was in 1991(5,700 Ha per
.________________________ _ .concession).
B3 Development and     Technical assistance to  Three main data bases were established. (i) a  Modern and powerful mining, geological and
operabon of a mining   DINAMI, DINAGE and    bibliographic information system, (in) a project  environmental information systems were
information system     UAM                   informabon data system on mining operabons, and (iii)  developed The first application was the
a geographical informabon system including geological,  production of thematic digital maps, which
mining and environmental Informabon.           required the establishment of specific norms and
DINAGE was equipped with advanced computer     standards
hardware and software, local network, links to intemet  Cooperabon between DINAMI, DINAGE and
and intranet                                    UAM was enhanced.
15 technicians from DINAMI, DINAGE and UAM were
trained as monitors and cooperabon between these
institubons was enhanced
A number of publicabons and technical documents,
and user's manuals, were prepared.
(b) upgrading small-scale miners' technology                     Satisfactorily achieved Artisanal and small scale gold mining conditfons were improved in the pilot
area in terms of efficiency, environmental impact and mitigation, and safety and health hazards.
Training in technical,legal, managerial, safety and occupational health aspects was given toa large
number of small scale miners. Participation of small scale miners and local communities in
environmental management was enhanced through the creation of Environmental Management.
Committees and the establishment of an ASM chamber of mines. Finally, environmental
management master plans were prepared for the most impacted mining regions of Ponce Enriquez
and Zaruma/Portovelo.
B - Policy
Implementation -
B-1 Environmental     B 1 (ii) Implementation  With SIDA assistance and national consultants.  Awareness of environmental and health impacts
Management             of methods to         Socioeconomic stdies were cared out and helped  has considerably increased throughout the
rehabilitate           Soi-cnmcsuiswr           are   u  n   epd      mingaes
environmentally        understand the functioning of artisanal and small scale  i
environmentally        mining. As a result, remedial measures were    In the pilot mining area of Ponce Ennquez, near
| degraded areas by    developed and implemented in the pilot area of Ponce  the SW coast of Ecuador where risks to impact
mining actvities and   Ennquez They include                           other economic actvibes (shrimp and bananas)



24                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components           Related Activities        Output                                          Outcome
prevent further        (i) Demonstraton of the feasibility to replace mercury  are significant, 40% of gold processing plants
environmental          amalgamation by cyanidatbon of gravimetric     are now using more effective cyanidation
degradabon.            concentrates;                                  processes. Most remaining amalgamation plants
of metliurgial  to educe are now only adding mercury in amalgamation
(di) Improvement of metallurgical processes to reduce  drums where only concentrates from gravimetnc
Implementatbon of a pilot  mercury use, improve efficiency and decrease  treatment are processed, and are processing
demonstrabon project   environmental impact;                          gases (previously, mercury was added directly in
(iii) Training of small scale miners in management,  the mills). Other works, such as water recycling
technical and safety and occupational health aspects  and improvement of tailing/amalgamation
(45 courses to a total of 1600 participants took place  deposits, were completed and/or were under
unbl 1999)                                     implementation
(iv) publication of a large number of informabve  Mercury use was substanbally reduced through
publications, user friendly manuals and guidelines.;  more effective processes and/or replacement by
(v) Creation of local Environmental Management  cyanidation.
Committees (as part of the Decentralized National  Liquid effluents from 22 ASM plants, members of
Environmental Management System), and their training  the Bela Rica Cooperative, are being treated In a
in the monitonng of environmental and socio-economic  demonstrative pilot common effluent setling
impacts from mining;                           pond.
(vi) Provision of training and information to the  Most importantly, communities have become
indigenous communifies of Shuar and Ashuar in the  involved in monitoring environmental and socio-
Nambijia gold mining area in the Ecuadorian Southern  economic Impacts from mining through
Amazon area,                                    Environmental Management Committees and
(vi) Construction of a small demonstration settling pond  their environmental monitoring groups.
(3 meter-high and about 2.5 meters water depth) for  an ASM chamber of mines has been
the settling of water effluents from mines and  established.
gravimetric plants, before they are disposed of in the
river.
(vii) Preparation of a comprehensive environmental
management master plan for the Portovelo Zamura
area, and of a collectve environmental management
system for the Ponce Enriquez area.
(c) Instituting applicable environmental standards and monitoring  Satisfactorily achieved Mining Environmental Regulations were passed. However, the national
system                                                           environmental limits for effluents discharged to natural water courses, still do not include criteria
for metal contents. Modifications to the Mining Environmental Regulations are being prepared by
the Under-secretariat of Environmental Protection of MEM and are expected to address this Issue.
Extensive monitoring of the four most important southem mining areas took place during the
period 1996-1999, and an Environmental Information System with extensive environmental baseline
data on environmental quality(containing information on waters soils, river sediments and biota)
was developed. The environmental capacity developed within UAM to monitor the sector
environmental performance and assess environmental impacts is substantial. The extensive
publication and difusion of the monitoring results helped develop an environmental awareness
within society, authorities, and mining communities. The systematic monitoring performed with
SES assistance helped define the principal contaminants and their origin and pointed to the need
for adequate containment facilites (with priority to be given to the most impacted regions of Ponce
Enriquez and Portovelo/Zaruma) to reduce signiflcant pollution from mercury, cyanide and heavy
metals. This work also demonstrated that, while the Blota in rivers and estuaries is impacted



25                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components          Related Activities        Output                                         Outcome
downstream, banana and shrimp farming activities have so far not been affected.
However, the work load imposed by the review of a large number of EAs obliged UAM to
discontinue monitoring activties in the last 18 months. Also, the sustainability of local
Environmental Management Committees, which were trained in simple biological monitoring
methods and are involved in environmental monitoring, is uncertain in the absence of strong
assistance and collaboration from the regional offices of DINAMI and of independent and regular
financial resources.
A-Policy Management
A-1 Legal Framework   Insttutng applicable   Mining Environmental Regulations were passed in  Partially achieved - Mining Environmental
environmental standards  September 1997, complementing existng norms under  Regulabons were passed, but there are still a
the Water and the Contaminabon Prevention and  few important gaps (i e. lack of limits for metals
Control laws and their regulabons, and the Norm on  in liquid effluents discharged to natural water
Mercury Use in Mining Mining Regulations specify  courses).
that, in additon to presenting Environmental   Modifications to the Mining Environmental
Assessments, Environmental Management Plans and  Regulabons, and new National Environmental
annual Audits, concessionaires are obliged to protect  and Control Regulabons are being prepared
and minimize impacts on biodiversity, forests, local  respectvely by MEM and MA, and are expected
communities, and cultural heritage. To that effect, the  to address this Issue
Mining Environmental Regulations include norms for
the handling and storage of solid wastes and handling
and treatment of liquid effluents. The limits permitted
are those established under the Natonal
Contamination Preventon and Control Regulations
(1989), which include norms for water, soil, air, noise,
and solid wastes
However, these regulations establish maximum
concentrabon limits for contaminants in superficial and
marine water for uses such as dnnking, imgabon,
agnculture and sports, but not for fauna and flora
protecbon Also, although there are criteria for the
quality of effluents discharged to natural water courses,
they do not include critena for metals Finally, there are
no sampling and analysis criteria.
To address these issues and other, the Under
Secretariat of Environmental Protection of MEM is
preparing additions to the Mining Environmental
Regulations which would indude specific cnteria for the
mining sector. Also, new National Environmental
Regulations are being prepared by MA
B- Policy Implementation
B-1 Environmental     B 1 (i) Development of  With Swedish Internabonal Development Agency  An extensive environmental baseline data on
Management            systematic            (SIDA) assistance, contamination caused by, and  environmental quality, containing infommation on
environmental         impact of, mining activities in southem Ecuador were  waters, soils, river sediments and biota was
monitonng and data    evaluated 7 times during 1996 and 1999 in the most  developed
baseline of the       important gold mining areas of Ponce Enriquez (near  The SES monitonng report has demonstrated
environmental pollution  the bananas and shnmps farming activities) Santa  . , \   h  I       + -. ,,,,o,



26                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components          Related Activities         Output                                        Outcome
and health hazards     Rosa, Zaruma/Portovelo (near the Peruvian Border)  that (i) the pnncipal contaminants are mercury,
caused by mining,     and Nambija (in the Amazon). Water from rivers and  cyanide and heavy metals; (in) the most impacted
estuanes, sediments from nvers and aquabc fauna  regions are Ponce Enriquez and
were investigated Bio-aquatic investgabon studies  Portovelo/Zaruma, (iii) contaminaton is mainly
were also implemented in 1996 and 1998 in the rivers  due to direct or indirect discharge of tailings from
and estuanes of the above areas                Inadequate deposits of cyanidabon plants and
A full set of environmental monitoring guidelines,  gravimetry-amalgamation operations; (iv)
including specific sampling and analysis procedures  mercury and heavy metals are incorporated in
were prepared and integrated to UAM actvibes The  the Biota in the rivers and estuaries but banana
1999 monitoring program was executed without SES  and shrimp farming activities are not impacted
support.                                       by the mining activity; and (v) if pnority is given
to the Ponce Enriquez and Zaruma-Portovello
Environmental baseline studies were completed, and  mining areas, most contamination problems from
results were published and presented at seminars and  mercury, cyanide and heavy metals would be
workshops.                                     resolved with proper storage of tailings in
An environmental monitoring network and an     adequate deposit systems, and rehabilitation of
environmental information data base were developed  the rivers could be very quick, due to favorable
natural conditions
In addibon, as already commented, a network of
Environmental Management Committees were created  The wide publication of monitoring results helped
(as part of the Decentralized Nabonal Environmental  develop an environmental awareness within
Management System). Simple biological monitoring  local society, authonties, and mining
methods were developed. The committees were    communities.
trained in their use and became involved in the  Environment control and enforcement remain
monitoring of environmental and socio-economic  weak. The environmental monitoring capacity
impacts from mining                            developed within UAM could permit constant
monitoring of the sector environmental
performance and of implementation of
Environmental Impact Assessments and
Environmental Management Plans. However,
the workload imposed by the review of a large
number of EAs has led UAM to discontinue the
monitoring program in the last 18 months
Furthermore, there are potential conflicts of
interest in UAM and the regional environmental
engineers reportng to DINAMI administratively
They would be better located under MEM's
Undersecretary of Environmental Protection.
The environmental informabon system is an
important information and reference tool for
UAM The informaton has been already used
under the project in a number of studies and in
the preparation of thematic maps. It is also an
important Information source and reference for
scientific and research actvities and for
interested mining companies.
Environmental Management Committees are In
place but their sustainability will depend on
whether they receive strong backing and
collaboration from MEM's regional offices and
independent and regular financial resources are



27                                                           Annex B
Objectves         Components        | Related Activites         Output                                         Outcome
.   ,  [                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ensured to them (which was not the case in
I                     l~     ~    _                                                          Ponce Ennquez).
(d) Helping contain and Possibly detoxify mining-related hazardous  Significantly achieved - Tools to help improve environmental performance of the ASM sector were
wastes                                                          developed and tested in a pilot area. Mercury use (and consequently mercury content in wastes)
was reduced. Some ASMs have improved their containment facilites. A demonstrative pilot
common liquid effluent settling pond was built
Ambitious Environmental Management Master Plans were prepared for the important gold SSM
mining areas of Ponce Enriquez and Zaruma/Portovelo, including substantial investments in
tailings containment. However, due to the magnitude of investments needed, lack of financing, low
internatonal prices of gold, the difficulty in reaching agreements between a large number of
stockholders involved, and the still weak control and enforcement capacity and willingness of MEM,
the proposed common facilities have not yet been implemented.
A- Policy             B 1 (in) Implementation  Following the preparabon of a pre-feasibility and a  The project promoted the use of more efficient,
Implementation    of methods to         feasibility study prepared with SES assistance, a  less polluting, processing technologies, water
B-1 Environmental     rehabilitate           conceptual waste management plan was prepared by  management systems, better and
Management            environmentally       intematonal experts for the pilot mining area of Ponce  environmentally sound containment systems; and
degraded areas by     Enriquez in February 1999 This plan included a water  beHter effluent control.
mining activibes and  management system; a transport network for tailings  Liquid effluents from 22 ASM plants, members of
prevent further       from individual gravity/amalgamation plants,  the Bela Rica Cooperative, are treated in a
environmental         constructon of common cyanidabon tailing dams (15 to  demonstratve pilot common effluents settling
degradabon            30 meters high); and improvement of existing   pond, built under an agreement between the
gravimetry/amalgamabon tailing deposit facilities (prior  cooperative, the municipality and MEM.
to being sent to cyanidabon plants). A formal EA was
recommended by the study.                      Mercury use was reduced (1-2 Kg of Hg per Kg
of Au recovered compared to about 8Kg in Peru)
Due to the level of investments involved, the lack of  and many plants have installed cyanidation
financing, and the difficulty in reaching an agreement  facilities for their gravimetnc concentrates
between the Bella Rica Cooperative and the largest
cyanidabon plants, this common waste management  Under community pressure, some small and
plan has not yet been implemented. In lieu, a small  medium-scale operations have improved their
demonstrabon settling pond was constructed (plastic  tailing containment facilities and started to
lined, 3 meters-high dikes, about 2.5 meter water level)  implement some reforestabon near their
for the setling of water effluents from 22 of the existing  operations.
50 ASM mines and gravimetric plants, before they are  The Ponce Enriquez Environmental
disposed of in the nver The pond is part of the  Management Committee reported to the
complete Environmental Management Plan which   assessment mission that turbidity in one of the
needs to be implemented by the Bela Rica Cooperative  region's impacted river had been reduced and
according to Environmental Regulabons The small  that animal life had started to reappear.
pond was built under a financing and management
agreement between the Cooperative (which provided  The comprehensive Environmental Management
the materials and operation and maintenance), the  Master Plans prepared for the mining areas of
municipality (which provided the land) and the project  Ponce Ennquez and Zaruma/Portovelo were not
(which provided funds for constructon and technical  implemented, due to the amounts of investments
assistance)                                    needed, lack of financing, low international
pnces of gold, difficulty of reaching agreements
An environmental management master plan was also  between a large number of stakeholders, and
completed in 2000 for the Portovelo Zamura area  weak control and enforcement pressure from
(important old mining area near Peruvian border) to  MEM
define measures necessary to contain severe
contamination of the Puyango nver from a very large



28                                                           Annex B
Objectives        Components          Related Activities         Output                                        Outcome
number of ASM mines and/or small treatment plants
Pollution is constraining development of a downstream
bi-natonal imgabon project and possible tourism
activibes. Environmental and social problems in this
area are severe because of the community's
overwhelming dependence on mining
(e) Monitoring mining-related health issues among the mining    Achieved - Baseline data and Informatfon System on Mining Occupational Hazards (SIREM) were
communities.                                                     developed. Methods and procedures for mining occupational health hazards investigatfon were
developed and prevention measures were proposed. Investigation results were extensively
published and SSMs were trained. A health center specialized in mining originated diseases was
built by the mining organizations, the districts and the Mlnistry of Heath, but as of mid-2001, x-ray
equipment had sill not been Installed.
B - Policy            With Swedish           Regulatons for Mining Safety were prepared and  Miners and their families considerably increased
Implementation         International         published in July 1996, in addition to the Workers  their awareness of health nsks associated with
B-I (I) Systematc     Development Agency     Safety and Health and Improvement of Occupabonal  tradibonal mining activibes, and of the required
monitoying of and     (SIDA) assistance,     Environment Regulabons published in November 1986  prevention measures, partcularly in the Ponce
establishment of a data  development of      (Decree 2393).                                 Enriquez area.
base of occupational  occupabonal health     The health of 700 miners was checked in 1998 for  In Ponce Ennquez, representatives of the local
health hazards caused  baseline data.        silicosis, mercury, lead, and cadmium, and deafness in  Environmental Management Committee reported
by mining                                    the mining areas of Ponce Ennquez, Portovelo-  that exposure of miners to mercury fumes from
Zaruma, and Nambija About 30% were diagnosed with  archaic amalgam buming processes had been
abnormal levels                                virtually eliminated
Occupabonal health baseline studies were completed,  The Ponce Enriquez Health Center Is in
and results were published in scientific and simple  operation, but the mission was unable to assess
formats and presented at seminars and workshops to  its effectiveness as personnel was on strike
increase health nsk awareness and the need for  However, the fact that the X-ray equipment
prevention. Didachc health and safety informabon  financed under the project was still in storage,
publicabons were also prepared and extensively  uninstalled and unused, casts serious doubts
distnbuted                                     about the Center's performance.
SSMs were trained in safety and occupational health
and 12 local physicians were trained in X-ray
interpretation and silicosis diagriostic.
A health center, specialized in mining-onginated
diseases, was built in Ponce Enriquez, with financing
from the mining organizations, the local government
and the health ministry Specialized equipment,
including X-ray equipment for silicosis diagnostic was
financed by the project.
A computerized Mining Occupational Health Hazards
Informaton System (SIREM) was designed and
implemented



29                                   Annex C
Annex C. Main Features of Ecuador's Mining Law
Law 126 of May 31, 1991                                  Decree-Law 144 of August 18, 2000 (Changes only)
State ownership of all mineral substances; which it may concede to  Exploitation of resources subject to sustainable development
domestc or foreign persons or entibes                    principles and environmental protecton and conservabon
Separate concessions for explorabon and exploitation Maximum  Single concession for all stages of explorabon, exploitation,
concession size is 5,000 hectares for exploration and 3,000 for  beneficiation, processing and commercializabon, up to 5,000
exploitation.                                            hectares.
Authonzabons required for benefication plants and        Sale by concessionnaires of own minerals is free Otherwise,
commercialization                                        trade in metallic ores requires license.
Compulsory notificabon of start of production pnor to initiabon
Start of production conditional on approval of Environmental
Impact Assessment.
Concession confers real property nght separate from property of  Mining nghts can be divided or accumulated (subject to
land, and it is transferable, transmissible and mortgageable  maximum limit of 5,000 hectares)
Concession can be granted to groups of persons, jontly responsible,
without need for legal entity (Condominium)
Validity of concession. 2 years for exploration concessions  Indefinite
(extendable to 6 years) and 20 years for exploitabon (renewable)
Time limit for start of work. 6 months for exploration and 1 year for  Concessionaire's choice (but subject to payment of increasing
exploitabon                                              patents and to a fine from year 9 onwards).
Cause for extincton of concessions:                      Cause for extinction of concession'
non-payment of patents for 6 months                      non-payment of patents for 6 months
inactivity                                               relinquishment
damage to environment
undue use of resource
illegal exploitabon
relinquishment
State reserves the rights to create special mining zones and  Eliminated
reserved areas
Special mining regime for artisanal or small-scale mining  Eliminated Replaced by obligation of MEM to promote
evolution towards medium and large scale mining through
special programs
Annual patent fees                                       Annual patent fees'
Exploration. first two years. equiv to US$ 1 5 per ha, increasing  (a) Conservation
to US$4.5 in first two-year renewal and US$7.5 in second two-  year 1-3 US$1 per ha
year renewal
Exploitation: US$4.5 per ha                                year 4-6 US$2 per ha
year 7-9' US$4 per ha
year 10-12: US$8 per ha
year 13 on US$16 per ha
(b) Production'
US$16 per ha
Allocabon of patent fees: State Treasury                 Automatic priority allocation to DINAMI and DINAGE and
maintenance of SADMIN and SIM Surplus distnbuted as
follows' 50% to muniapalities, 20% to provincial councils, 10%
to municipalibes, 15% to the Police, 15% to higher education
institutions with geology, mining and environmental faculties.
Royalties: 3% of gross production value, distbuted as follows' 30%  Eliminated
to municipalities, 25% to provincial councils, 5% to the Police and
40% to the State
Export taxes: exempt, except 0 5% general export tax (FONIM)-
Sales of minerals to Central Bank considered as exports.
Title processing fee. US$100 per transacton



30                                   Annex C
Law 126 of May 31, 1991                                   Decree-Law 144 of August 18, 2000 (Changes only)
Sale of mining products and imports of equipment and goods not  Sale of miningsubstances (such as ores, mineral concentrates
produced locally are exempt from VAT. However, VAT charged on  and tailings) and imports of goods not produced locally are
all domeshcally prodtuced (and similar imported) inputs and  exempt from VAT. However, 10% VAT charged on all
equipment. No drawback system.                            domestcally produced inputs and equipment. Tax credit.
Transfer of mining nghts not subject to VAT or capital gain tax.
Pre-operating expenses depreciable over four years. All new
investments in exploration and mine development are also
deductible.
Carry forward for losses- 8 years, subject to limit of 50% of tax base.
Stability of legal and tax rules for period to be established by
Ministry of Energy and Mines
Other applicable provisions from general tax and business laws:
Equal treatment of foreign and local investors in all aspects. No requirements of minimum local
ownership or participation in management or board.
Company contnbution to Social Secunty System: 12.15% of payroll.
Corporate Income Tax: 25%.
Mandatory Profit Sharng: workers have rights to 15% share of pre-tax profits, distributed as follows:
10% divided among workers (up to 40SMV per worker), 5% among workers with families (up to 20SMV
per family), and balance to be used in infrastructure and social expenditures in area of influence.
Effectively bnngs corporate income tax rate to about 36%.
Import duties: 5% to 10% for most products related to mining activities (5% for equipment).
VAT tax rate: 12%, except on imports.
Note: tax of 11% on remittances abroad, which was applicable at the time of appraisal, was eliminated
during project implementation.



31                                     Annex D
Annex D. Environmental Aspects
Background
A Presidential Environmental Commission (CAAM) was created in September 1993 to address
mcreased environmental and social problems, as a result of productive activities such as hydrocarbons,
shnmp farming, bananas and flowers plantation, forestry and minig; and accelerated urbanization of the
country. Through a participation process CAAM prepared the Environmental Management Basic Pinnciples
(1993), the Environmental Basic Policies (1994), and Ecuadonan Environmental Plan - PAE (1996). PAE
defined as pnority actions the rationalization of the environrnental legal framework, institutional
strengthening of environmental management entities, and delegation of environmental responsibilities to
local and sectonal governments. In line with the delegation pnnciple, environmental responsibilities for the
energy, hydrocarbons and mining sectors rested with Under Secretanat of Environment of MEM. In
October 1996, while implementation of the Bank Ecuador Environmental Technical Assistance Project
(PATRA) was starting, the Ministry of Environment (MA) was created as the national environmental
authonty in charge of national environmental policies and strategies, as well as the coordmation and
regulation of National Decentralized Environmental Management System. MA replaced CAAM upon its
dissolution m 1998.
The National Environmental Management System
Environmental Management Strategy - The National Environmental Management Law approved
by congress in 1999 confirmed the ministry as national environmental authonty. Also, a strategy for
sustainable development was established the same year. On this basis, decentralization strategy for
environmental management is one of the MA's key management policies and MA is establishing
accreditation and decentralization agreements with local and sectoral governments. As a result,
environmental management of mming, Hydrocarbons and energy sector remain with the Under-secretariat
of Environment in MEM. Regulations to the National Environmental law are being prepared and are
expected to be passed by end of 2002.
Main Mining Sector Aspects of the National Environmental Management Law -
Establishment of a decentralized environmental system including the participation of the
civil society.
e      Extraction of non renewable resources from natural protected areas is exceptionally
permitted for national interest, after an economic feasibility and impact evaluaton study
have been carried out.
*      All potentially polluting projects need a license from respective sectoral ministry
previously to any activity. Agreed base line study, EIA, risk evaluation and management
plan, management plans, monitonng system, contingency and mitigation plans,
environmental audit and closing plans are required previously to license delivery.
*      Regulations will define mechanisms for social participation such as consultation, public
hearings, diffusion of environmental information etc...
National Environmental Information System and an Environmental Management System (Sistema
Unico de Manejo Amblental), These systems, mcluding an EIA scheme, were designed under PATRA
and are being implemented. Also under PATRA, MA has developed several proposals for strategies and
policies in areas mcluding water resources, disaster prevention, industry, oil and mming. However, most
of them have not yet been approved.
Organization and Responsibilities. MA was created as the national environmental authority in
charge of national environmental policies and strategies, as well as the administration, management,



32                                     Annex D
control, and coordination of environment matters throughout Ecuador. MA's decentralized organization
includes four under-secretariats and 11 regional districts. The Under-secretariat of Environmental Quality
is composed of: (1) the Contammation Control and Prevention Directorate, which responsibilities include
environmental impacts evaluation, environmental monitoring and control, environmental auditing; and (ii)
Local Environmental Management Directorate responsible for the support to decentralization,
institutional strengthening, and dissemination.
Despite some improvement in the MAs operating capacity through PATRA, its environmental
management capacity is still very weak. Especially, the Contamination Control and Prevention
Directorate needs a strong strengthening program. MA expects to implement such program dunng the
next two years with bilateral assistance from Holland.
Mining Sector Environmental Management within MIEM
Environmental Organization and Responsibilities
As for the Energy and Hydrocarbon Sectors, the environmental management of the Mining Sector
is under the responsibility of the Under-secretariat of Environmental Protection in MEM. Coordmation
with MA, other sectors and local government on environmental maters is also under its responsibility.
Activities such as the review and follow-up of Environmental Assessments, environmental management
plans and audits; processing of environmental permits; environmental monitonng, and control; and
operation of the environmental, safety and heath information systems, are implemented by the Mining
Environmental Unit (UAM) under the National Mining Directorate within the Sub-secretanat of Mining
(DINAMI). But, the environmental permits are issued by the Under-secretary of Environmental
Protection. UAM was created as part of the organizational restructuring which took place under the
project, and is in charge of the minig environmental activities which were until then the responsibility of
the National Directorate of Environmental Protection (DINAPA), under the Under-secretanat of
Environmental Protection. UAM has a total staff of 7 multidisciplinary professionals and 7 regional
environmental engineers. During project implementation this team was trained and equipped and its
expertise and techmcal sklll improved significantly. However, as a result of the legal changes promoted
by the project, UAM is currently overworked by the review of a large number of Environmental
Assessments and Managements Plans leading to interruption of monitonng activities after 1999. Control
and enforcement activities remain weak. The application of strict environmental control measures
depends to a large part on having effective organization and properly trained and remunerated specialists
in adequate number. To address these issues, MEM is currently reorganizing UAM with the assistance of
the former project coordinator. Guidelmes for the preparation of EAs and a system of review, approval,
and follow-up of EAs are also being prepared. Finally, there are potential conflicts of interest in UAM
and the regional environmental engineers reporting to DINAMI administratively. Perhaps UAM and the
regional environmental engineers would be better located under a separate mining environmental
division, reporting to MEM's Undersecretary of Environment
Relevant aspects of the Mining Sector Environmental Framework
Mining Environmental regulations to the Mining Law were approved in September 1997,
complementng existing norms under the Water and the Pollution Prevention and Control laws and their
regulations and the Norm on Mercury Use in Mining. The preparation of the mnimg environmental
regulations was the first participation experience in legal proposals in Ecuador. Main relevant aspects of
these regulations include:
o      The Mining Environmental Strategy is multidisciplinary, including social and
occupational aspects, decentralized and executed with local governments and
communities' participation, under MEM policy and guiding pnnciples.



33                                      Annex D
*      In no event concessions are granted or mining activities allowed in natural protected
areas. In protected forest and vegetation, mining concessions are possible upon the pnor
authorization of the Ministry of Environment through a special commission for mining
authonzations.
*      The preparation of a preliminary EIA prior to initial exploration activities and of an EIA
and an Environmental Management Plans prior to advanced exploration, exploitation, or
mineral treatment activities is compulsory. Annual environmental audits are also
compulsory. All EIAs and environmental audits must be dissemmnated in the area of
influence, under the supervision of Under-secretanat of Environmental Protection.
*      Concessionaires are obliged to protect and minimize impacts on blodiversity, forests,
local communities, and cultural hentage. To that effect, the Mining Environmental
Regulations include norms for the handling and storage of solid wastes and handling and
treatment of liquid effluents. The limts permitted are those established under the
National Contamination Prevention and Control Regulations (1989), which mclude
norms for water, soil, air, noise, and solid wastes. However, these regulations do not
include limits for metals in liquid effluents discharged to natural water courses.
*      Upon closure, obligations to adequately remove all installations and housing facilities,
and to rehabilitate minmg degraded areas according to plans presented in EAs.
Concessionaires remain responsible for all damages to the environment after closure.
Modifications to the Mining Environmental Regulations and new National Environmental and
Control Regulations are being prepared respectively by MEM and MA and are expected to address the
above standards issue, optimized critena for better qualification of consultants for the preparation of EIAs
and environmental audits and improve the timeframe when EIA reports are due for exploration and
exploitation activities to ensure that ELAs are approved before any activity is started and measures
recommended can be taken into account in the design.
Consultation Mechanisms - Significant progress towards the development of more comprehensive
consultation mechanisms for the mining sector took place under the project. Under an IDF grant and with
assistance from an NGO, the Social Planning and Studies Center (CEPLAES), MEM is preparing guidelines
for communities' consultation for the mnmg sector. These guidelines aim at facilitating dialogue between
the mam stakeholders, including mining promoters, small miners, communities, NGOs and local and
national governments. They are expected to be completed by the end of November 2002 and may be used as
a basis for future consultation regulations in the mining sector. In addition, the project helped change the
cntena for publication and diffusion of information on pollution monitonng and control and helped
strengthen local communities and govenmments environment management capacity aiming at more effective
environmental management committees and more environmental local consciousness.
Indigenous Peoples - The indigenous communities are well organized in Ecuador and have
organized federations to make sure their voice is heard, but no specific nghts and/or measures are
considered in the mining legal framework for indigenous lands. Indigenous reserves and land deeded to
indigenous peoples based on traditional communal rights is considered under the law as commonly
owned lands and the concept of "easement arrangement" and its procedures apply. However, a study on
"Relations between Indigenous peoples and gold mining" was carried out under the project (1997). The
main causes of conflict reported by the study mclude: (i) separate property of land and its underground;
(ii) environmental impacts; (iii) undesired social impacts. Study recommendations include: (a) design of
specific cntena and norms to facilitate relations between indigenous peoples and mining activities; (b)
strengthening of indigenous organizations and teams in negotiation processes, environmental and social
monitoring; and (c) transparent information on mining legislation and techniques.
Health and Safety - Regulations for Mining Safety were prepared and published in July 1996, in
addition to the Safety and Health of workers and Improvement of Occupational Environment Regulation



34                                      Annex D
published in November 1986 (Decree 2393). In addition to comprehensive safety norms for mining
operations, the 1996 regulations oblige the concessionaire to report any accident to DINAMI within 24
hours, to have a safety unit when the number of workers is higher than 100 and/or a safety and hygiene
comuty when the number of workers is higher than 15.
Under the project, occupational health base line studies were prepared and published, Base line
data, methods and procedures for mining occupational health hazard investigations were developed and
prevention measures were proposed especially for diseases related to mercury, silicosis, deafniess. A
Mining Occupational Health Hazard Information System (SIREM) was established. Results were
extensively published and distributed and SSMs were trained in safety and occupational health. A health
center specialized in mmning-onginated diseases was built in Ponce Ennquez and specialized equipment,
includmg X-ray for silicosis diagnostic was financed by the project. However, as of mid 2002, this
equipment was still not operational. The mission was unable to venfy the satisfactory operation of the
health center, which was inoperative due to a stnke in the center's health personnel.
Use of Mercury by ASMs- In addition to the Mercury Use Norm No. 338, published in September
1989, the Mming Environmental Regulations only authonze the use of mercury by ASMs equipped with
amalgamators, retorts, particulates sedimentation facilities and mercury recovery systems devices to avoid
atmosphenc, water and soil pollution. Currently, 99% of SSM sector is formalized and has presented
ELAs and Environmental Management Plans either individually in the case of small and medium
enterprises, or through associations (cooperatives or condominium) of artisan and small scale miners,
which have been granted joint legal titles. Under the project, SSMs and local environmental and safety
committees were trained in environmental, health, safety, and operational aspects. The sector is monitored
by the regional environmental engineers but enforcement so far has been weak. This may change in the
future, however: during the assessment mission, the regional director of DINAMI informed that 15 ASMs
would be shortly closed for non compliance with their Environmental Management Plans. SSMs visited
and most stakeholders met m the Ponce Enriquez mining region confirmed that use and pollution from
mercury have significantly been reduced m the region due to replacement by cyanidation of gravimetry
concentrates and/or more efficient use of mercury.
Main Aspects of the Project Environmental Assessment'
An Environmental Assessment was prepared in February 1993, based on a number of
environmental, occupational health and socio-economic studies prepared dunng project preparation,
mcludmg the Swedish Geological International (SGAB) reports on "Development of Small Scale
Mining" and "Environmental Impact and Measures for Environmental Control". The EA gives quite a
comprehensive picture of the adverse environmental, safety, health and social impacts of SSM in the main
mining areas of Southem Ecuador and in the nvers draming from these operations.
The EA provides incomplete information on current baseline conditions due to lack of monitoring
data. Particularly lackmg are reliable data on occupational health and safety, contamination of the food
chain and toxic effects of methyl mercury and other heavy metals. However, the EA considers that the
improper use of mercury is the major problem due the favorable local conditions for its transformation in
a more bio-accumulative and toxic form, methyl mercury, and that pollution caused by cyanidation is not
a major issue due to the natural oxidation of cyanide residues. As a result, the EA recommended the
implementation of upgraded, less polluting and more efficient SSM technologies.
The EA proposal also proposes sub-components in the project for monitoring of pollution related
to mining activities, and for improving expertise in monitoring and controlling occupational health and
toxicological problems related to mining, including the preparation of baseline data.
1. This section built on Roger Badstone's "List of Findmgs from Initial Portfolio Review" of Safeguard Policy.



35                                      Annex D
The EA provides a good descnption of the evolving legal and regulatory environmental
management system for the minmg industry in Ecuador and its weaknesses. Proposals for strengthening
the system and improving environmental monitoring and enforcement were appropriately included as
components of the project. However, the occupational health and safety component of this proposal and
initiatives to address the health and hygiene conditions of the SSM commumties should have received
more emphasis.
The EA do not really deal with "Analysis of Alternatives" and presentation of an "Environmental
Management Plan". As this was pnmarily a TA project, it would have been more appropriate to give
more emphasis to different policy, regulatory and management altematives for improving the efficiency
and output of the SSM sector, improving environmental control, health and safety, and health and social
conditions in SSM communities.
The EA addresses the "Impact of Mining on Indigenous People in Ecuador". A distinction is
made between the indigenous Andean communities "whose recognition by the mainstream - the
modemizing, westemized culture - has been taking place over more than four centuries, and the Amazon
tribes, that have lived fairly mdependently from the rest of the Ecuadonan nation until quite recent times".
The EA recognizes that "most land rights of indigenous communities are not yet formal" and "that the
administration of mining concessions will have to be done carefully to protect the environmental
sustainabihty of indigenous populations and prevent further encroachment of unacceptable mining
activities in their temtories"
Finally, the issue of Natural Habitats is largely ignored in this EA. This is surpnsing for mining
operations.
Main Comments of the WB Inspection Panel Investigation on the Project's EA
*      The EA "A" categonzation was appropriate, but late in the preparation process and a
more expanded and robust EA process should have been undertaken.
*      Limiting the geographical scope of the EA for the project to the southem regions of the
country (where the ASM is concentrated) was inappropriate for a sector project which
was promoting country wide development of its mineral resources - including the
ecologically more sensitive northem regions of the country.
*      The EA did not adequately address available baseline environmental data for the
biologically rich regions m the North of the country.
*      During the preparation of the EA, LATEN staff and a co-financer noted "gapmg holes"
and "inadequacies" in the EA, but, due to other pressures to approve and move the
project forward, these concems were never addressed. LATEN referred specifically to the
"Wildlands Policy" (OPN 11.02, now OP/BP 4.04 on Natural Habitats), which should
also have been tnggered by this project but was ignored m the preparation of the EA. IP
noted that LATEN final sign off on EA was a mistake.
*      Consultations with stakeholders and locally affected peoples only started 5 years after
project approval and clearly did not meet EA OD 4.01 requirement on public
consultation. In any case the meetings that were held later were characterized by the IP as
"information" rather than "consultation" meetings as required by the OD.






36                                              Annex E
Annex E. Statistical Indicators
Table E-1: Number and Area of Concession Contracts Signed/Titles Registered and Granted
At Appraisal and Current
Number                                  Area (ha)
Registered   Reg.& Granted                            Reg.& Grant
up to       up to          up to          up to      up to         up to
May-91      Jul-02         Jul-02        May-91       Jul-02       Jul-02
Exploration &
Prospection             463          18          20          3,465,000     12,032      12,032
Exploitation              153          91          91            50,000       7,521       7,527
Comprehensive                        1,623       1,755                      952,474     996,468
Total             616        1,732       1,866         3,515,000    972,027    1,016,027
Total sq Km                                                  35,150       9,720      10,160
Ratio 2002/1991                     2 81           3 03                       0 28         0 29
Average size of
Concession (ha)                                                 5,706       561          544
Source May 1991 Staff Appraisal Report (Page 34)- July 2002 National Mining Cadaster
Definitions:
Registered: Titles have been issued and are registered in the Nabonal Cadaster
Granted Concession has been granted but registrabon of btle is pending payment of patent or expirabon of posting penod.
Granted Concession has been granted but registrabon of btle is pending payment of patent or expiration of posting penod.
In process Application has been received and is being processed
Reiected or cancelled Application not meeting requirements, or concession has expired, or concession has been
cancelled due to non-payment of patent nghts.



37                                              Annex E
Table E-2. Mining Concessions Outstanding as of July 15, 2002- by Province
Number                                       Area (Ha)
Province       Registered Granted   In Process   Rejected    Registered Granted   In Process   Rejected
or Cancelled                                  or Cancelled
Azuaa                374         21       107        2,268      168,752     7,636     60,018     4,083,676
Chimborazo           106         18         9          685       25,747       710      9,273     1,400,923
El Oro               302          7        31        1,043      174,638     1,971      3,097     1,224,358
Pichincha            391         57       254        2,833      157,803    27,735    110,017     6,093,514
Zamora               169          5        78         1,312     201,742       340    175,633     2,681,234
Loja                 156          1        40          887      193,771     1,630      7,044     2,196,013
Guayas               234         25        28          557       49,574     3,978      4,260      509,328
Total               1,732       134       547        9,585      972,027    44,000    369,342    18,189,046
Table E-3. Mining Concessions by Type as of July 15, 2002
Number                                       Area (Ha)
Type of        Registered Granted   In Process   Rejected    Registered Granted   In Process   Rejected
Concession                                       or Cancelled                                  or Cancelled
Comprehensive       1,623       132       493          754      952,474    43,994    362,527     1,451,793
Exploration           18          2         8        7,561       12,032                4,314    16,562,239
Exploitation          91                   46        1,270        7,521         6      2,501       175,014
Total               1,732       134       547        9,585      972,027    44,000    369,342    18,189,046
Table E4. Mining Concessions by Type of Ore/Material (issued during period 1991-july 2002
only)
Number                                        Percent
Metallic    Non-    Construction    Total     Metallic    Non-    Construction    Total
Metallic   Materials                          Metallic   Materials
Number of Titles     951        550      1,126       2,627          36%       21%          43%         100%
Area (Ha)         816,072   176,860     35,672    1,028,604         79%       17%           3%         100%
Source National Mining Cadaster
Definitions
Registered. Titles have been issued and are registered in the Nabonal Cadaster.
Granted Concession has been granted but registration of btle pending payment of patent or expiration of postng period.
In process: Application has been received and is being processed.
Reiected or cancelled. Application not meeting requirements; or Concession has expired, or concession has been cancelled due to
non-payment of patent rights.



38                                              Annex E
Table E-5. Ecuador- Mining Concessions- Number and Areas Processed per Year
Number
Year            Requested               Granted                 Rejected
1991                  165                       3                       9
1992                  996                     188                      66
1993                  828                     203                     209
1994                1,144                     296                     493
1995                1,222                     360                     898
1996                1,240                     302                    1,064
1997                  991                     322                     995
1998                  871                     277                    1,408
1999                 1,173                    297                    1,317
2000                  754                     240                     971
2001                2,463                    1,163                   1,085
Jan-Jul 2002             783                      458                     331
Total               12,630                   4,109                   8,846
Area
Year            Requested               Granted                 Rejected
1991                1,943                     966                   18,483
1992                  993                   19,184                 128,948
1993                 1,567                   5,471                 280,317
1994                  679                    8,281                 919,455
1995                  474                   17,635                 702,423
1996                1,256                   43,190                 444,970
1997                1,233                   20,005                 186,480
1998                  695                   51,220                 612,076
1999                1,094                   85,780                 300,845
2000                 1,010                 107,371                 765,893
2001                  518                  681,215                 936,717
Jan-Jul 2002             995                  238,161                 810,193
Total               12,457                1,278,479               6,106,800



39                                           Annex E
Table E-6. Ecuador- Reported National Mining Production
Ore                           1991      1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Gold (Grms)                    451,113   863,062   933,375  1,182,349  7,410,496  7,207,558  3,068,773  1,474,399  2,025,981  2,871,367
Silver (Grms)                                                                       7,996
Limestone (Ton)              3,659,901  3,159,770  1,822,145  4,306,665  4,088,941  3,490,754  4,510,515  2,803,661  2,864,857  3,147,015
Construction Materials(M3)               362,673   163,899  1,034,235  2,264,458  1,324,796  1,873,780  2,411,429  2,459,207  2,595,542
Clay(Ton)                      283,141   277,929   131,238  279,439    53,822     835,867   185,234   811,951  412,598   324,671
Feldspar (Ton)                   2,253    3,249     2,015     5,691     10,297     10,321   60,328    69,318    33,142    47,041
Kaolin (Ton)                    12,014    6,379       507     6,622     45,054     86,542     7,345    5,600    20,652     11,022
Bentonite (Ton)                   135       392                1,118      511        432       205                            41
Siliceous Sands(Ton)            10,489    35,507    18.750   33,534    26,486      24,070    43,240   25,926    21,978    27,522
Marble (Ton)                     1,711     1,961    8,620     2,572     10,948      1,556     1,089    19,693    2,508     1,680
Gypsum (Ton)                                                            2,430       2,038     1,510     1,672     1,456    1,043
Pomez (Ton)                                                                       231,875   368,269            275,274   344,850
Carbon Dioxide (Kg)                                 5,200    34,129                 8,723    8,029                        28,843
Antimonium (Ton)                                                                            507,872
Puzolana (Ton)                                                                                         5,266     13,978   27,687
Baritina (Ton)                                                                                                   2,532     1,476
Zeolita (Ton)                                                                                                     1,237    1,291
Source' National Mining Directorate (DINAMi)
Official Gold Exports (Grmns)                                                  13,669,000  8,757,000  3,826,000  3,298,000  2,534,000  2,367,000
OfMlcial Gold Exports
Year           Kilograms
1996                    13,669
1997                     8,757
1998                     3,826
1999                     3,298
2000                     2,534
2001                     2,367
Source: Empresa de Man,fiestos



40                                     Annex E
Table E-7. International Price of Gold (US$ per ounce)
Year             US Domestic             UK London
1970                  36
1975                 162
1980                 613
1985                 318
1986                 368
1987                 478
1988                 438
1989                 383
1990                 385
1991                 363
1992                 345
1993                 361
1994                 385
1995                 386
1996                 389
1997                 332
1998                 295                    294
1999                                        279
2000                                         279
2001                                         271
Jul. 2002                                     313
Source. US Domestic Pnces- Engelhard Corp
UK London World Bank Commodity Pnce Data



41
Annex E
Table E-8. Total ILnvestment by Companies (MILLION US$))
1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Mines and Quarries         1.17       1.19      0.57       2.08       6.43
Total                   479.34     599.53     461.14     253.51     795.06
%                        0.24%      0.20%      0.12%      0.82%/     0.81%
Source: Superintendencia de Companias
Table E-9. Direct Foreign Investment in Mining and QuarTies
Investment in Company Establishment and Capital Increases
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998        1999
No. of Companies            19         14         10         12          5           3
Amounts Invested:
Million Sucres          1,015       914        245       2,103      1,264        340
US Dollars            441,881    312,692     67,400    474,932    185,201     16,796
Exchange rate             2297       2923       3635       4428       6825       20243
Source: Superintendencia de Companias



42
Annex E
Table E-10. Government Revenues from Mining Activities Since 1991 Mining Law s (US$)
Year     Royalties      Patents     Processing   Mining Right   Products and      TOTAL
Fees       Auction Fees     Services
1991           193.61      9,505.85                                                   9,699.45
1992       109,764 72    194,522.81                                                 304,287 53
1993       338,312.77    284,657.03                                                 622,969.80
1994       448,517.97    971,344.96                                                1,419,862.93
1995       453,361.31   1,008,484 06                                               1,461,845.37
1996       690,874.26   1,127,794.33                                               1,818,668.59
1997       733,231 56   1,408,549.00                                               2,141,780.56
1998       385,221 84    758,271.29                                                1,143,493.13
1999       239,498.69    504,113.59                                                 743,612 28
2000       267,203.73    732,391.19                                                 999,594.92
2001       225,338.06    530,462.62   140,900.00                       3,196.66     899,897.34
2002*         2,825.66    716,529 87    53,200.00      56,318.10      21,918.55      850,792 18
TOTAL       3,894,344.18  8,246,626.59  194,100.00      56,318.10       25,115.21   12,416,504.08
Note. Since 1995 Source: SADMIN
Up to July 17, 2002.



