Page  1
 
1
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
1818 
H 
Street, 
N.W. 
      Phone: 
 
(202) 
458-5200 
Washington, 
D.C. 
20433, 
USA 
     Fax 
: 
 
(202) 
522-0916 
 
 
 
IPN 
REQUEST 
RQ99/7 
     
December 17, 1999 
 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Ecuador: Mining Development and Environmental Control 
Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 3566-EC) 
 
 
 Dear 
Sir: 
 
 
On December 13, 1999, the Inspection Panel (“the Panel”) received a Request for Inspection 
(“the Request”) related to the above referenced Project. The Request was submitted by DECOIN, 
Defensa y Conservacion Ecologica de Intag (Defense and Ecological Conservation of Intag) - an 
Ecuadorian non-governmental organization acting for and on behalf of persons in the area known as the 
Intag area and four representatives of the Associacion de Caficultores Rio Intag (Association of the 
Coffee Growers of Rio Intag), all residents in the Imbabura Province, Republic of Ecuador.  (“the 
Requesters.”) 
 
 
The Requesters claim that the communities they represent are likely to suffer harm as a result of 
failures and omissions in the design and supervision by the Bank of the Mining Development and 
Environmental Control Technical Assistance Project in Ecuador.  Specifically, they claim that the 
development of mining activities in the Intag area will prevent local communities from continue to work on 
their traditional agricultural and cattle breeding activities. The Requesters also claim that the project will 
have a destructive impact on critical natural habitats, threatening protected natural reserves and 
endangered species. The Requesters ask, 
inter alia
, that the mining information gathered under the 
project within the natural reserves, their buffer zones and other areas in which there is a conflict involving 
local communities and mining companies be not disclosed to the public. 
 
 
The Requesters’ allegations could constitute violations of 
inter alia
 the following Bank Policies 
and Procedures: 
 
 
OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment; 
 
OPN 11.02 on Wildlands (Now OP/BP 4.04); 
 
OD 4.20 on Indigenous People; 
OD 13.05 on Project Supervision. 
 
 
I am notifying you that I have, on December 17, 1999, which is also the date of the dispatch of 
this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Due to the fact that the Panel's 
"registration" process is often misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" is an 
administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no judgment whatsoever concerning 
the eligibility of the request. 
 
Page  2
 
2
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of 
the "
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
", Bank 
Management has been notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than January 20, 
2000, with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank ’s 
relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-referenced credit.  The subject 
matter the Management must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in 
paragraph 3 and 4 of the "
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection 
Panel
." 
 
After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as provided by 
paragraph 19 of the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility 
criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the 
Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."
 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/7. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 
 
 Jim MacNeill 
Chairman  
  
TO: 
Ms. Cecilia Alvarez 
 DECOIN 
 
Defensa y Conservacion Ecologica de Intag 
 Castilla 
144 
Otavalo, Imbabura 
Ecuador 
 
 cc:      Mr. James D. Wolfensohn 
 President 
 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 Room 
MC12-750 
 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 
