Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C6zZ 2-                    --7
Report No. P-5183-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
SDR 35.3 MILLION TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
NOVEMBER 28, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVA%LENTS
Currency Unit              =    CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$ 1.00                        CFAF 315.75  (November 1989) 2/
CFAF 1 million             =    US$ 3,167.06 (November 1989) 2/
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                        U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =    2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)           =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)            =    2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0
to CFAF 50.0. The French Franc is currently floating.
2/   Exchange rate of November 14, 1989.



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APB       Association professionelle des banques (Bankers' professional
association)
BCEAO     Banque centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank
of West African States)
BIAOS     Banque ..nternationale pour l'Afrique occidentale - Senegal
(Commercial bank)
BNDS      Banque nationale de developpement du Senegal (National
development bank of Senegal)
BICIS     Banque internationale pour le commerce et l'industrie du Senegal
(Commercial bank)
BSK       Banque senegalo-koweitienne (Commercial bank)
CIDA      Canadian International Development Association
CCCE      Caisse centrale de cooperation economique
CFA       Communaute financiere africaine (African Financial Community)
CNCAS     Caisse nationale de credit agricole du Senegal (National
Agricultural Credit Bank of Senegal)
ONCAD     Office national de cooperation et d'assistance au developpement
(defunct groundnut marketing agency)
SME       Small and medium-scale enterprise
TEN       Taux d'escompte normal (normal rediscount rate)
TEP       Taux d'escompte pr4f4rentiel (preferential rediscount rate)
TES       Taux d'escompte (rediscount rate of last resort)
TMM       Taux du marche mon6taire (money market rate)
UMOA      Union monetaire ouest-africaine (West African Monetary
Union)
USAID     Unites States Agency for International Development
USB       Union senegalaise des banques (Commercial bank)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re :ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (FSECAL)
Table of Contents
Pages
Credit Summary ............................................ (iii)-(iv)
PART I.  THE ECONOMY                .........................                 1
A. Recent Developments ............................. 1
B. Prospects and Financing Needs                  . .    2
PART II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                          . . .   3
A. Background                           . .     4
The Banking System                    . .     4
The Policy Environment                   . .    5
B.    Policy and Regulatory Reforms ................. 8
Background                       . .   8
Interest rate policies                   . .    9
Credit allocation policies                 . .    10
Taxe sur la Prestation de Services (TPS)  ... 13
Bank supervision                     .         .     13
Impact of the Reforms                   . .   14
C.    Bank Restri,cturing ............................          14
D. Social Impact                         .           .     19
PART III. THE PROPOSED PROGRAM                         . . .   20
A.    Program objectives . .........................  20
B.   Amount of Cofinancing and Credit                .     .     20
C.    Tranching, procurement and disbursement  ... 20
D.    Management, monitoring and reporting
of the program                    . .. 21
E.  Coordination with the IMF                    . .    22
F. Benefits and Risks                        .        .     22
PART IV.  BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS ................. 23
A.  Country Assistance Strategy                  ... 23
B.    Bank Group Operations, Past and Future ........ 24
PART V.   RECOMMENDATION              .......................              . 26



- ii -
Text Tables
Table 1:  Summary Situation of the Banking System ............ 4
Table 2: Credit Growth and BCEAO Rediscounts ................ 7
Table 3: Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Eight
Distressed Banks, 9130/88 ........................ 8
Annexes
Annex I   -    Economic Indicators; Balance of Payments,
Status of Bank Group Operations.
Annex II  -    Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex III -    FSECAL Policy Matrix
Annex IV  -    Government's Letter of Devalopment Strategy
for the Financial Sector.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:     Government of Senegal
Credit Amount:      IDA:  SDR 35.3 million (USS 45.0 million equivalent)
Cofinancing:      France (US$34.0 million); United States (US$33.0
million).
Terms:     Standard IDA terms with a 40 years maturity.
Description:    The proposed Credit will support the efforts of the
Government of Senegal to restructure its banking system
and lay the groundwork for the development of well
functioning financial and capital markets. It would
take place within the framework of reforms by the West
Africa Monetary Union (UMOA) of which Senegal is a
member. These reforms follow intensive consultations
between staff of the BCEAO (the common central bank ot
UMOA) and the Bank, the IMF, France and the US. They
are noteworthy because they represent the consensus on
a course of action toward financial sector reform by
the seven members of the Union: Benin, Burkina, Cote
d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo.
Benefits and
Risks:     The potential benefits of this Credit are substantial
in that it not only would rehabilitate the Senegalese
banking system but it would also establish an improved
financial intermediation system that would aid in the
mobilization and term-transformation of financial
resources and in their channeling to borrowers hitherto
largely excluded from access to credit, The risks
associated with this adjustment credit are acceptable.
The macroeconomic weaknesses that have undermined
financial restructuring in other countries are alikely
to compromise the restructuring of Senegal's financial
sector. SAL IV, whose preparation is now lia its final
stages, provides, in conjunction with the I"F's ESAF,
for measures improving Senegal's fiscal and internal
sector positions. Senegal's overall macro-economic
stability is also reinforced by a central feature of
the franc zone, which imposes strict and well-enforced
limits on member-governments borrowing from the Central
Bank.



- iv -
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranches,
the first becoming available on effectiveness (December
1989), the second nis.e months after disbursement of the
first. In view of extensive reforms already
undertaken, 60 percent of the credit (USS 27.0 million)
would be disbursed in the first tranche. Disbursement
of the second tranche (USS 18.0 million) would depend
upon satisfactory overall implementation of the
Program. Disbursements are expected to be made over a
period of 12 months ending in December 1990.
Map:     IBRD 18499R
Appraisal
Report:      There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the Republic of Senegal to help finance a Financial Sector
Adjustment Program (FSECAL). The proposed credit for SDR 35.3 m4illion
(US$45.0 million equivalent) would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Senegal: An
Economy Under Adjustment" (No. 6454-SE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on February 13. 1987. Basic country data are given in Annex I.
A. Recent Developments
3.        Adjustment of the Senegalese economy became unavoidable at the
end of the 1970s, when a combination of poor financial and economic
policies plunged an already weak economy into a severe crisis. A first
attempt to stabilize the financial situation and create the basis for
growth did not yield satisfactory results. Renewed efforts were launched
in 1984 and resulted in the reduction of the fiscal deficit (from 5.8
percent of GDP in 1Q83/84 to 2.6 percent in 1987/88), the strengthening of
the current account position (from 17.3 percent of GDP to 9.6 percent) and
the dampening of the inflationary pressures (from 12 percent to 2.0
percent).
4.        Adjustment efforts have also been accompanied by a revival of the
economy. Between 1984 and 1988, real GDP grew by 4.3 percent annually as
compared to long-term average growth rate of less than 2.5 percent in the
preceding two decades. Growth has been driven principally by a good
performance of the agricultural sector due to both favorable price
incentives, particularly for groundnuts, which is the key cash crop, and to
several years of good rainfall. As a result, the production of groundnuts
and cereals has expanded at an annual rate of about 10 percent during the
past four years. The fishirg sector has also experienced significant
growth and fish exports have become Senegal's largest export earner since
1985. There are, however, signs of resource depletion, particularly for
the high-value pelagic fish species. While the recovery in groundnut
production has stimulated the oil-processing industry, other manufacturing
industries have remained depressed because of a combination of factors,
including the poor investment climate, high cost of production factors
(particularly labor and energy), a rigid labor market, and stiff
competition from imports following the trade liberalization measures
introduced since 1986. The service sector, which accounts for over half of
GDP, has performed well in spite of the declining share of Government
services. With domestic credit growing at an annual rate of 8.4 percent



. 2 -
since 1984 (about half of which was for crop credits), the domestic
inflation rate has been modest, with the GDP deflator increasing at a rate
sligntly over two percent per annum.
5.        With the population currently growing at 2.9 percent a year,
higher GDP growth in the past few years has helped reverse the gradual
decline in real per capita income which was experienced in the period
1960-84.  Demand management measures implemented since 1984 have succeeded
in reducing gross domestic expenditures especially total ccnsumption, which
exceeded GDP during the first half of the eighties. As a result, domestic
savings, which were negative in earlier years, recovered to reach 7 percent
of GDP in 1988. Prudent demand management, which 1s crucial for avoiding
real exchange rate appreciation under a fixed exchange rate regime, as well
as a succession of good harvests, have contributed to the fall in the
inflation rate which has enabled Senegal to regain some competitiveness iv
foreign markets. The country's exports continue to be impaired by the high
cost of production in particular labor cost. Although growth in the level
of nominal wages has been moderate, it still remains quite high by
comparison to countries in the same GDP bracket as Senegal.
6.        In spite of these improvements in the economic situation, the
Government's fiscal situation remains fragile as evidenced by the
significant shortfall in fiscal revenue in 1988/89. The combination of a
weak economy and social disturbances related to the border conflict with
Mauritania caused tax revenue to fall in nominal terms by 5 percent
compared to the level in the preceding year and 13 percent compared to the
projected l$el.   The Government budget also relies heavily on the tax on
petroleum product3 (about 25 percent of total revenue' whose domestic
prices are 2.5 times world prices. Moreover, Senegal is still highly
dependent on direct budgetary assistance from abroad to cover current
expenses, including the servicing of foreign debt and the repayment of
arrears. The excessive reliance on petroleum and external financing
increases the vulnerability of the Government's financial operations vis-
a-vis external developments. The debt service ratio of 25 percent in 1988
could be held to this level largely because of successive debt
rescbedulings by Paris Club members. Without reschedulings, the ratio
would have exceeded 30 percent in that year.
B. Prospects and Financing Needs
7.        The successful implementation of the PSECAL depends to a large
extent on the macroeconomic stabilization program proposed under the SAL
IV, currently in its last stages of preparation, and the ESAF of the IMF,
which is in its second year of implementation. Both SAL IV and the ESAF
contain specific policy measures aiming at the improvement of the fiscal
situation and the current account position and providing for a prudent
monetary policy. Assuming quick and full implementation of the policy
reforms under the proposed SAL IV consistent with those spelled out by the
Government in its fourth Policy Framework Paper to be discussed soon by the
Committee of the Whole, the performance of the economy achieved in the
recent past would be sustained. Real GDP growth, after registering a
decline in 1989 to 1.3 percent would increase to an average of 3.8 percent
over the period 1990-97, representing an increase of nearly 1 percent per



capita. Gross domestic investment, in particular private investment, would
increase gradually and would be financed increasingly from domestic
savings.
8.        The overall fiscal situation, now in deficit, is projected to
turn into a surplus by 1992, and then remain positive thereafter. This
would be achieved through both containment of expenditure (reduction in
nominal terms of the civil service wage bill and of transfers to
parastatals) and improvement in resource mobilization (widening of the tax
base, better tax administration, and higher across-the-board import duty
rate). The current account position, which is projected to decrease by
nearly half during the period 1990-97, would be strengthened through a
further improvement in the export incentive system (i.e., reduction in the
costs of production, in particular labor and energy, and elimination of
administrative bottlenecks) and in the rationalization of public investment
programming. The stabilization program contains also measures to limit the
expansion in the domestic credit to 5 percent and to contain the inflation
rate to less than 3 percent per annum.
9.        The cumulative external capital requirements implied by this
scenario during the period 1989-97 is projected at US$7.6 billion or about
an average of US$ 840 nillion a year. This consists of US$4.5 billion of
current account deficit (excluding transfers), USS 2.4 billion of debt
amortization (including IMF repurchases) and US$ 0.7 billion of changes in
reserve-. The proposed FSecal and SAL IV will meet part of these financing
requireuients. Nearly 30 percent of the identified financing would be in
the form of official grants, consistent with the need to reduce the ;Y't
service burden. The unfilled gap is projected to average 15 perc'- ox
total financing requirements which is quite manageable given declining deb.
service levels.
PART II - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
10.       Senegal's banking system has become increasingly illiquid because
of the accumulation of nonperforming loans now amounting to about US$750
million. These loans represent about half the portfolio of the banking
system, or 13 percent of GNP. The absence of liquidity in much of the
system hobbles the day-to-day functioning of commerce and industry and
limits the access of potential borrowers to financing. It also affects the
operations of the Treasury as taxpayers have increasingly been paying their
taxes with checks drawn on frozen accounts in the illiquid banks. Finan-
cial intermediation, never well developed in Senegal, has been weakened by
the growing inability of distressed banks to supply critical services and
by the undermining of the country's financial transactions system.  The
weakness of financial interruediation impedes the progress of structural
adjustment, with its focus on the re-dynamization of the private sector.
11.       Except in Burkina Paso and Togo, similar crises of varying
seriousness have erupted in other countries of the West African Monetary
Union (UMOA: Union Mondtaire Ouest Africaine) stemming largely from
urnderlying weaknesses of the system. The Bank has been discussing systemic
issues with the Central Bank of the zone, and the discussions have led to
the reforms outlined below. These aggressive reforms constitute an



- 4 -
adequate framework for the restrur!turing of the fo;,ncial sector, not only
in Senegal but in the other UMOA cQuntries as well. They also provide a
sound basis for the medium-term deveiopment of the flexible financial
systems and capital markets needed for economic growth.
12.       Some first steps toward reform  of the banking and financial
sector began within the SAL process. Under SAL III, a review of the
operations of the banking system was completed which documented the extent
of the crisis and provided the elements for putting together an agenda for
reform under this operation. Following this review, the minimum capital
requirementa of the banks were raised, the Banking Association was revived,
and the tax on interest earnings was lowered and subsequently eliminated.
A. BACKGROUND
The Banking System
13.    Senegal's banking system has 15 banks.  The Government of Senegal
holds equity in nine banks and has exercised direct control in five of
them. In 1986 a liquidity crisis affected eight of the 15 banks, including
two larger ones that had accumulated overdrafts of CPAF 50 billion (about
US$180 million) with the Central Bank (BCEAO: Banque Centrale des Etats de
i'Afrique de l'Ouest). To deal with their liquidity problems the distressed
banks had increasingly resorted to borrowing from the BCEAO. However, when
this latter stopped, in 1988, providing them with additional refinancing
facilities, their operations came virtually to a halt. The following table
summarizes the financial situation of the Senegalese banking system as of
September 30, 1988.
Table 1: SUMMARY SITUATION OP THE BANKING SYSTEM
(CFA? billion, US$ million)
Eight distressed    Sound barAcs         Total
banks
…_______________      __________      -----------
<i                 CFAP     US$       CPAF    US$      CFAF   US$
Loan Portfolio              323    1,023       166      526     489   1,549
Non Performing loans        233       738        6       19     239      751
Capital & Reserves           36       114       29       92      65      206
BCEAO refinancing           167       528       30       95     197      623
14.       Problems in the banking sector have arisen from economic and
institutional factors common to the countries of the West Africa franc
zone. Unfavorable economic conditions -- droughts in the early 1980s, and
adverse shifts in the terms of trade -- weakened the banking sector.
Institutional problems exacerbated these negative economic effects. The
problem banks had been plagued by poor management, government inter-
ference, and lack of internal controls on lending decisions. Finally,
because of the division of responsibility between the BCEAO and national
authorities, inspection and control of banking operations has practically



- 5 -
been nonexistent, so that few sanctions were applied against the misuse or
mismanagement of funds.
The Policy Environment
15.       The Senegalese banking/financial sector and its problems can only
be understood within the context of the rules and regulations of the UMOA,
whose membership includes Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Hali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo. The Union has four essential provisions for monetary
integration. First, a freely convertible common currency -- the CFA franc
-- whose exchange rate is supported by an overdraft facility (operations
account) of the French treasury has been fixed vis-a-vis the French franc
for more than 40 years. Second, there is an interest rate structure which
is uniform throughout the zone. Third, uniform ceilings on bank lending
margins are fixed with reference to the common interest rate structure.
Fourth, common limits on government borrowing from the Central Bank are set
at a cumulative total of 20 percent of the previous year's fiscal revenues.
16.       With few restrictions on current and capital transfers, the franc
zone system is highly open, and under these circumstances the Central Bank
has little control over the money supply. To keep the operations account
position within acceptable limits, the level of net foreign assets is taken
as the principal policy target of Central Bank operations. 1/ The Central
Bank controls the level of net foreign assets essentially by controlling
rediscounts of private sector borrowing and advances to governments. If
credit creation, either through rediscounting or advances to the govern-
ments, exceeds domestic requirements as determined by nominal GDP growth,
unneeded liquidity flows out of the economy, bringing a deterioration in
the balance of payments and a reduction in net foreign assets. If credit
is restricted relative to domestic requirements, liquidity flows Inward,
and the net foreign asset position improves.
17.       Thus the Central Bank sets global credit targets (ceilings) that
are consistent with forecasts of nominal GDP growth rates for the in-
dividual countries. Forecast requirements for domestic credit are then
translated into annual targets for Central bank refinancing. Before shares
in country rediscount ceilings are assigned to the primary banks, a provi-
sion is made for advances to member country treasuries within the limit of
20 percent of the previous year's fiscal revenues. As a prudential
measure, Central Bank financing through rediscounts is limited by statute
to 35 percent of an individual bank's total credit, although the actual
ceiling may be considerably lower.
18.       Until 1980 the Central Bank controlled the evolution of bank
credit solely through refinancing (rediscounts). In 1980 separate credit
(lending) ceilinGs were introduced bank-by-bank as a further control on
overall credit growth. The system is thus somewhat overdetermined, since
global and country limits on Central Bank rediscounts should suffice under
1/ This policy is reinforced by the strong concern of the French Treasury
that a negative operating account position does not become a permanent
feature of the zone.



the UMOA syctem. Within the member countries, credit (and rediscount)
ceilings for private sector lending are administratively assigned to in-
dividual banks by the national credit committees. 2/ While credit ceilings
are communicated to the banks and set monthly, banks are not informed of
their rediscount ceilings.
19.       Once annual global credit ceilings are established, there is no
mechanism to adjust them (or reallocate them among member countries) to
accommodate variations in a member country's money supply that may be
required to meet external shocks. The same applies to rediscount ceilings.
This means that it is virtually impossible under the current system to
adjust credit to offset umexpected changes in the terms of trade, the
deflationary impact of structural adjustment programs, or unexpected
reductions in growth rates arising, for example, from droughts. Moreover,
with country ceilings fixed under the global credit ceilings, considerable
inflexibility is built into the bank credit allocations as well.
20.       Until recently Central Bank rediscounts were generally supplied
at the "normal" discount rate (TEN: taux d'escompte normal), or for loans
targeting priority sectors, at the preferential rate (TEP: taux d'escompte
privilAgi6). Bank margins were fixed zone-wide for different types of
lending and applied to these discount rates whether or not loans were
financed from deposits or rediscounts. Rediscount rates were adjusted in
line with Paris rates. In 1975 a zone-wide money market was established
with an administered rate (TMMN taux du marche monetaire) generally
maintained in somewhat closer alignment with Paris rates than the TEN,
largely to keep banks with excess funds from transferring these resources
to the Paris market. 3/ Increasingly the BCEAO has directed bank borrow-
ings to the money market, whose rate has generally been above the TEN.
Demand for loanable funds for the zone as a whole -- arbitrated by the
BCEAO-intermediated money market (in effect, another form of rediscounting)
-- far outstrips supply, and the difference between supply and demand is
provided by BCEAO within the framework of country and bank rediscount
ceilings. In 1988 the BCEAO provided about 30 percent of its total
financing to the monetary union through this facility, while only 3 percent
was supplied through ordinary rediscounts at the TEN. Rediscounts of crop
marketing credits, not counted under credit ceilings, have historically
taken up about two-thirds of total preferential credits.
21.       Effects of the system on financial intermediacion.   The UMOA
system has prejudiced the development of financial intermediation. Banks
that have reached their particular rediscount ceilings are unable either to
borrow from the money market or to have access to interbank borrowings,
2/ Members of this committee in Senegal include the Ministers of Finance,
Plan, Industry, Rural Development and Commerce. Since 1988 the committee
also includes the Governor of the BCEAO and a representative of France. Its
Secretary is the Director of the National Agency of the BCEAO.
3/ In addition, strictly interbank markets have developed vithin several
UMOA countries. Unlike the money market, these markets are not mediated by
the BCEAO. Total amounts traded on these markets have been very 'imited.



interbank sales of CDs and other types of monetary instruments that involve
exchanges of liquidity or term transformation. Similarly, even if banks
are within their rediscount ceilings, their credit ceilings may discourage
them from trying to mobilize deposits or other sources of liquidity that
they will be unable to use to develop their business. Thus the way in
which the BCEAO has managed liquidity has stunted the development of member
countries' banking and financial intermediation systems to the point where
the financial market is almost exclusively limited to bilateral relation-
ships between the primary banks and the Central Bank.
22.       The national credit committees' discretionary power to fix bank
credit ceilings has given rise to large-scale government interference in
the banking system to the benefit of the weakest banks. The problem banks
have had preferential access to BCEAO rediscounting as well as to higher
credit ceilings, which allowed their balance sheets to deteriorate even
more. The figures shown in Table 2 indicate that the credit ceiling
system, combined with Central Bank rediscount policy, tends to discourage
the growth of sound banks and encourage the growth of the problem banks.
The growth of the problem banks was in effect largely financed by deposits
from the healthy banks, channeled through the money miarket and lent through
the BCEAO.
Table 2: CREDIT GROWTH AND BCEAO REDISCOUNTS
Credit Growth in Seneaalese Banks. 1985-1987
(percentage)
1985-86   1986-87
Sound banks                  3.5        3.9
Problem banks a/             7.8       13.6
Credits and BCEAO Rediscounts Outstanding. September 30, 1987
(CFAF billions)
Credits     BCEAO Rediscounts
Sound banks                145.6           22.5
Problem banks              316.6          149.2
Source: BCEAO. Resources include those channeled through the money market.
a/ "Problem banks' are those being restructured.
23.      Table 3 shows the full dimension of Senegalese banking problem and
the extent to which the BCEAO had, directly or indirectly, become a major
source of finance for bad loans.



- 8 -
Table 3: CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR THE EIGHT DISTRESSED BANKS. 9/30/88
(in CFAF billions)
ASSETS                            LIABILITIES
Cash and banks             40          Banks                 34
Sound credits              90          BCEAO                167
Bad loans                 233          Deposits             142
Misc. debtors              36          Misc. creditors       37
Fixed assets               17          Capital/reserves      36
Total            416                              416
B. POLICY AND REGULATORY REFORMS
Background
24.      BCEAO saw the extensive banking crisis in several member countries
in late 1988 as an opportunity not only to restructure the banking sector
but also to lay a foundation for developing modern, responsive capital
markets. This would involve BCEAO's progressive disengagement from the use
of rediscounting to finance private lending activities and allowing the
market to develop the financial instruments and institutions to improve the
mobilization of private sector resources and their intermediation between
savers and ultimate borrowers. Given the fragility of several of the
banking systems, it would be unrealistic -- even undesirable -- to intro-
duce purely market-driven financial systems in UMOA now. The first priori-
ty is to put financial institutions back on their feet under effective bank
surveillance and management, with the cost of restructuring shared by
delinquent debtors, the Central Bank, and the Government.
25.      In this context -- following consultation with the IMF, the Bank,
and bilateral donors (France and the United States) -- the BCEAO took steps
toward the needed reforms. As concerns bank restructuring, the UMOA
Council of Ministers of June 8, 1989, agreed to consolidate on concessional
terms (15 years, including three years' grace, at three percent interest)
most of BCEAO's claims on the banks to be restructured or liquidated. On
August 1, 1989, the UMOA Council of Ministers approved a complete overhaul
of mechanisms for bank supervision and control. This will entail a shift
in responsibilities toward the BCEAO itself, the creation of a supranation-
al Banking Commission with jurisdiction in each country, and major revision
of the UMOA banking laws to prevent past excesses. BCEAO, the member
governments, and the donors view this reform as a keystone for the success
of the reform packages.
26.      Otherwise, resolution of more immediate problems is emphasized to
make the sector more amenable to the introduction in the long run of a more
market-based system. The most substantial reforms adopted affect regula-
tions that tended to weaken individual banks' balance sheets. Thus the
reforms will sharply restrict the abuse of crop credits and government
guarantees on parastatal borrowings which in the past severelV jeopardized



- 9 -
bank profits -- even solvency. Reforms in the structure and determination
of interest rates -- particularly in providing for widened banking margins
-- should also improve bank profitability and stability. Details of the
various reforms and their impact on financial performance are examined
below.
Interest Rate Policies
27.      The BCEAO took some initial steps toward a more market-oriented
interest rate policy during the first half of 1989, narrowing the differen-
tial between the TEN and the TEP, which had been two and a half percent, to
one percent. In its August meeting, the UMOA's Council of Ministers
decided to suppress the TEP and TEN altogether, and to use the money-
market rate (TMM) as the central rate.  4/ Its level was initially to be
aligned with Paris rates and eventually determined by supply and demand.
28.      The Council of Ministers also agreed that the BCEAO would (a)
channel all rediscounting needs through the money market, which it would
continue to intermediate at the administratively determined rate, (b) meet
demand for borrowings in excess of money market deposits through a last-
resort facility of the Central Bank, whose discount rate (TES: tlux
descompte) would be higher than the TMM, and (c) use the TES as the base
to which allowed margins would be added. These measures are to be supple-
mented by a streamlining of bank commissions and rates.
29.      Bank margins.  Bank lending margins, which are fixed zone-wide,
have -- depending upon the sector -- been applied to the TEP or the TEN
whether loans are financed from deposits or rediscounts. It was thus
entirely possible for loans to be made at a rate below the marginal cost of
funds. It was generally believed in the zone that small-scale or other
"privileged" borrowers depend on low interest rates, so margins were often
set at levels inversely proportional to the risk associated with the loan
being financed. The spread over the TEP was normally limited to one
percent for crop credits so marketing agencies began substituting cheap
crop credits for working capital credits. Margins on loans to SMEs were
fixed at a maximum of three percent over the TEP, not enough to compensate
for both risks and overhead associated with loans to these entities.
Spreads for all other borrowing were permitted to reach only five percent
over the TEN. With the new policies, spreads would be three percent above
TES for short-term loans and five percent above TES for long-term loans.
Since the marginal cost of funds is likely to be close to the TMM this
would effectively widen bank margins. Under current unsettled circumstan-
ces -- and given the limited competition among banks in several countries -
- in the zone, BCEAO considers it unwise to aim at total liberalization of
rates at this time. Should the new measures produce clearly insufficient
margins, the Bank will continue to work toward wider spreads.
4/ Advances to governments have hitherto been made at the TEP. These
would continue to benefit from a preferential rate one percent below the
TMM, set at 10.25 percent in early Octolzer 1989.



- 10 -
Credit Allocation Policies
30.      Major issues associated with the system of credit allocation
administered by the national credit committees include: (a) bank-by-bank
credit ceilings, (b) crop marketing credits, (c) sectoral credit targets,
(d) the prior authorization mechanism, and (e) government guarantees of
state-enterprise borrowings.
31.      Bank-by-bank credit ceilinas.   The administered allocation of
credit ceilings has aggravated the collapse of Senegalese banking by
allowing weak banks more than their share of allowable credit. In August
the UMOA Council of Ministers decided to introduce measures making the
bank-by-bank credit ceiling allocations somewhat more flexible until the
ceiling system could be substantially more liberalized. Among other
things, credit ceilings were to apply on a quarterly basis, rather than a
month-by-month as they do now. This response is only partial. More
liberalization is required to allow banks to develop their business and
compete on an equal footing, to allow development of the interbank market
and of financial instruments -- now lacking -- essential to broaden
financial intermediation. Existing BCEAO rules, for instance, would allow,
in an individual country, the abolition of bank-by-bank credit ceilings
simultaneously with the allocation of rediscounting/refinancing ceilings in
such a way that varying liquidity needs could be met through the free use
of the interbank market. This approach could give rise to unexpected
changes in liquidity, so the necessary fine-tuning would be carried out
through mandatory asset-based reserves, which would be remunerated. The
Government has agreed to a study on measures that would eventually allow
the suppression of bank-by-bank credit ceilings. A condition of second
tranche would be consultation on the study results and, if warranted,
agreement on procedures and timing for introducing measures that permit the
suppression of bank-by-bank credit ceilings and their replacement by more
market-oriented mechanisms. 5/ The study of the best approach to the
design and implementation of such a system would be undertaken by the World
Bank, the BCEAO and the Government, with input from the IMF.
32.      In the longer run, when financial markets in the zone have been
restructured, li4uidity now supplied through rediscounts to individual
banks on an administered basis could be provided zone-wide by the Central
Bank through a periodic (say, weekly) auction of rediscounts on a purely
market basis. This could also be an interest-rate setting mechanism. To
the extent that local circumstances -- from droughts or sharp changes in
the terms of trade -- justified it, differential reserve requirements could
5/ A certain degree of arbitrariness would still be required in a system
that could not be fully market oriented (because of Senegal's membership in
the zone). Country-level rediscount ceilings could be maintained as now,
but their allocation among banks could be made on the basis of simply and
openly administered criteria. Thus a bank's rediscounts from the Central
Bank could be determined on the basis of its sound credits, as a percentage
of the total amount.



- 11 -
be set among individual member countries, either offsetting negative
external effects or sterilizing (to the extent required) unexpected
positive flows.
33.      Crop Marketing Credits.   Crop marketing credits are short-term
advances that finance the full collection cost for agricultural products
from producer through final sale. They have disrupted the financial system
in Senegal and other member countries .   Since reimbursement is generally
expected within the year, they have not been subject to credit ceilings.
To encourage production, the Government has often set producer prices
(including collection, processing and marketing costs) higher than export
prices but has been unable to pay the subsidy to the banks participating in
the crop credits. Under Central Bank regulations, the unreimbursed portion
has to be carried over as a normal credit to the crop marketing agency,
guaranteed by the Government and counted against the country's credit
ceiling. Serviced only sporadically, these unreimbursed crop credits have
tended to accumulate becoming a major burden on the banking system,
absorbing a good part of annual increases in credit ceilings, and crowding
out the productive sector.
34.      ONCAD, Senegal's defunct groundnut marketing and processing agen-
cy, is a case in point. Its dissolution in 1982 left the BNDS, a public
bank, holding unreimbursed claims totaling CFAF 94 billion, CFAF 64 of
which was the unrepaid capital sum, and CFAF 30 billion unpaid interest.
The major local banks were obliged to take up shares of the outstanding
balance, and the BCEAO agreed to rediscount CFAF 64 billion. Debt service
payments due from the Government as ONCAD's guarantor are roughly CFAF 13.5
billion a year, but are being paid only irregularly. Thus ONCAD's refinan-
cing not only crowded out other borrowers in 1982 but has remained a source
of balance sheet problems for the banks involved.
35.      Because the crop credit problem affects virtually all countries in
the zone, it was given close scrutinv by the BCEAO and was the object of
far-reaching decisions at the August UMOA Council of Ministers meeting.
Those decisions aimed at bringing total bank financing of crop credit in
line with expected export receipts, providing an overall financing plan and
identifying ex ante sources of finance for the crop credit in thf? event
that the producer price exceeds the world parity price. In addition, crop
credits will henceforth be subject to credit ceilings. This, together with
the agreed abolition of the TEP, should reduce the incentive for market-
ing/export organizations to substitute crop credits for normal working
capital financing.
36.      Beyond the measures adopted by UMOA, the Senegalese Government has
agreed that banks would be permitted to decide for themselves whether or
not to take up the proposed credits. This means that banks will not take
up the credits unless repayment is assured, which is a strong incentive for
the Government to make sure that the financing package is sound.
37.      In view of the complexities of the problem and uncertainties about
how well the system will function, a condition for second-tranche release
will be a review of the new system's operations -- in consultation with the



- 12 -
BCEAO and tne Bankers' Association (APB) -- and implementation of any
needed corrective measures to improve its functioning.
38.      Sectoral Allocation of Credit.    The system of targeted credit
established objectives for the proportion of bank credit going to sectors
designated as "priority' (such as lending to SMEs, or for social housing).
Target levels were set and administered by the National Credit Committees.
Even under the best of circumstances, however, it was difficult to guaran-
tee the end use of targeted resources, given the fungibility of money, so
even if nominal quotas were met, financial resources may not have flowed to
the intended beneficiaries. Seen from another perspective, the targeted
credit policy provides the Government with considerable direct leverage
over lending decisions. In public banks, for example, total loans to
priority sectors far exceeded sectoral lending guidelines. In other com-
mercial banks, sectoral targets have been applied sporadically -- to coerce
banks into taking up crop credits, ior example -- but have not had much
effect, even nominally.
39.      Outright abolition of these guidelines would not disrupt the
financial system. The Council of Ministers of August 1989 abolished the
guidelines for targeted lending.
40.      Prior authorization mechanism.  The prior authorization mechanism
is applied when a loan would put a customer's total borrowing from the
banking system above a set level, which is Lixed at CFAF 70 million in
Senegal. 6/ The BCEAO justified the procedure as an instrument of qualita-
tive credit control -- to ensure that credit goes to 'sound" enterprises
and to ensure compliance with sectoral credit targets. 7/ As a practical
matter, the procedure has done little to enforce compliance with the sec-
toral guidelines or to ensure that banks lend only to creditworthy bor-
rowers.
41.      Apart from its apparent inefficacy, the procedure is administra-
tively cumbersome: even for completed applications it can take up to two
months. This reduces the banking system's ability to respond promptly to
the economy's credit needs -- for trade credit, for example. Also, deci-
sion-makers can easily misuse bureaucratic discretion.
42.      BCEAO has effectively dropped the sectoral guidelines, but is
still concerned about borrowers' creditworthiness. Ordinarily, the primary
banks evaluate risk themselves and the Central Bank inspects the quality of
their portfolio. The BCEAO argues that it is necessary to retain some of
the prior authorization mechanism as a safety net to supplement its new
banking supervision apparatus. The UMOA Council of Ministers endorsed both
a-substantial increase in the threshold and relaxations of current procedu-
6/ With a view to subjecting about 80 percent of all lending to the
procedure, it is set at CFAF 100 million in Cote d'Ivoire and CFAF 30
million in the other countries of the zone.
7/ Thus the credit application may be rejected if the lender is out of line
with mandated quotas.



- 13 -
res. A second-tranche disbursement will be based upon (a) a review by the
Bank of how well the new system functions in Senegal, particularly in terms
of efficacy and speed, and (b) the satisfactory implementation of any
further reform measures needed. The review would be jointly undertaken
with the BCEAO and the APB.
43.      Government guarantees of public enterprise borrowing.  The past
readiness of the UMOA governments to guarantee the borrowings of un-
economic public enterprises has greatly undermined the system. Of the CFAF
144 billion of bad debts held by failing banks in Senegal, more than 20
percent were loans guaranteed by the Government. These loans represent a
way for the Government to circumvent the 20 percent rule limiting its
borrowings from the Central Bank to the extent that they are made to
enterprises accumulating receivables from the Government for goods and
services to the public sector. These loans were considered risk-free
because of the government guarantee, but were often made to uncreditworthy
enterprises. They had a deftabilizing impact on bank balance sheets once
the Government failed to honor its guarantees. The UMOA Council of Mini-
sters agreed in its August meeting to a number of zone-wide measures that
would eliminate most of the commercial banks' incentives to favor govern-
ment-guaranteed debt: in effect, its treatment under BCEAO procedures would
be no more favorable than that for nonguaranteed debt. In addition,
guarantees not honored would be counted against the governments' net
borrowing positions. Moreover, the Senegalese Government decided on August
12, 1989 to abstain altogether from issuing guarantees for internal borrow-
ing, public or private.
Taxe sur la Prestation de Services (TPS).
44.      This tax -- which has been applied to both interest earnings paid
on deposits (lowered under SAL III from 17 percent to 7 percent and
subsequently to zero) and to interebt paid on loans (17 percent) -- hinders
financial deepening by substantially increasing intermediation costs to the
ultimate borrower and potential profits to the banking sector. A "wedge"
between t.ie real cost of capital and the cost to borrowers, it tends to
reduce inve5tment. Though the tax on deposits was recently eliminated the
tax on borrowing remains and continues to have a distortionary effect.
45.      Because of its impact on financial intermediation the TPS on
lending should be phased out entirely. Under Senegal's current severe
budget constraint, it may be difficult for the Government to forgo the
approximately CFAF 2 billion in lost revenues associated with this reduc-
tion. Accordingly, a schedule of phased reductions will be agreed upon
with the Government in June 1990, with the goal of complete removal within
five years.
Bank Supervision
46.      Responsibility for bank supervision and inspection was split be-
tween the BCEAO in charge of actual inspection and the national authorities
(the Ministry of Finance and the Banking Control Commission) in charge of
determining and applying any sanctions resulting from the inspections. The
system has failed on both accounts. Until recently inspections were rare



- 14 -
and recommendations (which were not discussed with the primary banks) were
rarely followed because Governments had no incentive to correct a situa-
tion they had often helped create. Flaws in the system of external control
were compounded by the absence of internal controls of the banks not having
close ties with foreign banks. Control systems were ignored at all levels:
by internal auditors, management, and the Boards of Directors.
47.      In its discussions with the donors, BCEAO readily agreed that
control systems had to be brought into line with normal industry practice.
The major issue was how -- assuming that BCEAO headquarters staff would
carry out regular, satisfactory inspections -- one could make sure that the
recommendations would be enforced. The BCEAO had no jurisdiction in these
matters in the member countries. Proposed solutions ranged from a national
Banking Control Commission -- strengthened by the membership of the Gover-
nor of the Central Bank and a representative of France -- to the creation
of a supranational Banking Commission. This institution would review the
reports prepared by BCEAO inspection staff, would decide on sanctions, and
would have the means to enforce its decision in each country. Because the
first alternative would lead to the same unworkable division of respon-
sibilities as in the past, the BCEAO and cofinanciers -- particularly
France as guarantor of the CFA franc -- argued for the supranational Bank-
ing Commission.
48.      At its August meeting the UMOA Council of Ministers agreed to two
bold measures. First, a zone-wide Commission would be established by
October 1990 and include two members from each UMOA country and from
France. Second, banking laws and regulations would be revised to prevent
the recurrence of past excesses and to bring them in line with practice in
other countries. New banking legislation would be effective in the UMOA
countries by October 1990. Meanwhile the BCEAO has obtained support from
France and the IMF to strengthen its inspection department so it can hold
inspections once a year. Work has also begun on the introduction of a
uniform bank accounting system.
Impact of the Reforms
49.      These reforms should improve financial intermediation over the
long term and provide a sound basis for the bank restructuring that is to
take place. Further measures must be taken, however, to encourage the
development of new financial instruments adapted to savers' and investors'
requirements in terms of risk perception, liquidity, and maturity -- and
the growth of institutions capable of intermediating between borrowers and
lenders so as to optimize supply and demand for financial resources. To
some extent these measures must wait until bank restructuring has taken
place and the new mechanisms for bank supervision have been shown to work
successfully. BCEAO and its partners -- the IMP, the World Bank, France,
and the United States -- will continue to work together on further needed
reforms.
C. BANK RESTRUCTURING
50.      In June 1989, after consulting with the Bank and bilateral donors,
the Government of Senegal finalized a comprehensive approach to restructur-



- 15 -
ing the banking system. This approach had three aims. First, it would
maintain only banks that, after restructuring, could become profitable,
solvent, and liquid. Second, it would reduce government interference in
the banks' management through privatization and by limiting the Govern-
ment's share capital in any bank to a maximum of 25 percent. Third, it
would develop a global financing plan with projected annual Government con-
tributions compatible with the Government budget. All restructuring meas-
ures are based on independent audits of the banks' accounts, operations and
portfolios, as well as all BCEAO inspection reports, when available.
51.      To achieve the first objective, the balance sheets of the dis-
tressed banks would be restructured so that their net worth would become
positive and would meet minimum capital adequacy requirements. In ad-
dition, staffing would be reduced, costly branch networks pruned and
changes in management introduced. These drastic restructuring measures
would ensure that restructured banks can withstand the rigor of competition
without being tempted to increase their lending beyond reasonable limits in
the hope of making high enoug' profits to provision bad debts.
52.      As a corollary to these principles, unrecoverable assets would be
removed from the balance sheets of all the banks to be restructured.
Depending on shareholders' willingness or ability to restore financial
viability, two different approaches would be used to restructure the eight
failing banks:
(a)  lJ2ien shareholders agree to rehabilitate the banks under their
centrol, the restructuring would include -- along with measures to
strengthen management and reduce costs -- restoration of the
banks' financial situation through shareholde- equity or quasi-
equity contributions to offset all losses and recapitalize the
banks to a level compatible with sound banking standards. 8/ Three
banks whose foreign majority shareholders want to stay in business
through restructuring would in association with private Senegalese
investors follow this procedure: BIAOS (65 percent of which is
owned by the French BIAO Group), BSK (partly owned by Kuwaiti
ilxterests), and MASSRAF (partly owned by Saudi Arabian interests).
(b)   When the financial requirements for rehabilitating a bank are
beyond the resources of its shareholders (the case with the
government-owned or controlled banks), the ualance sheet would be
split into a "sound balance sheet" and a 'liquidating structure."
The sound balance sheet would include the performing loans Pnd an
equivalent amount of liabilities (primarily private deposits) and
the equity required for a viable bank.  The balance sheet of the
liquidating structure would consist of the nonperforming assets
and bank losses and an equal amount of liabilities, primarily to
the BCEAO and, if necessary, liabilities to public and private
depositors. This procedure would apply to five government-
controlled banks.
8/ Under Senegalese commercial law, bank shareholders are liable only for
their equity, unless fraud is involved.



- 16 -
53.      Implementation of the restructuring program started in late 1988
and is expected to be completed by the end of 1989. For Xhe three banks of
the first group, restructuring plans were drawn up after an independent
audit of their accounts, operations, and portfolios. The first phase of
BIAO's restructuring has already been implemented. Discussions are
currently under way between the shareholders of BSK and MASSRAF and the
monetary authorities with respect to the restructuring of these two banks.
Completion of restructuring in accordance with their plans, or failing
that, the liquidaticn of these two banks, would be a condition of second-
tranche release.
54.      For banks of the second group, a protocol was signed in May 1989
by the two shareholders of USB (the Government of Senegal and Credit
Lyonnais of France) which split the bank into a financially viable bank
which started operation in July 1989, and a liquidating structure.   The
new institution, Credit Lyonnais-Senegal, with about a fourth of its staff,
a fifth of its branches, and a third of its assets, has been recapitalized
by Credit Lyonnais (95 percent) and the Government of Senegal (5 percent).
55.      On August 1, 1989, the Government put the four other banks into
receivership. It proposes to create a new bank to take over the sound
assets (and an equivalent amount of deposits) of the four banks. The
nonperforming assets would be transferred, along with liabilities, to a li-
quidating structure. This structure would be merged, with that of USB to
become a recovery company in charge of recovering the bad loans that it has
inherited. The new bank and the recovery company would start operations on
January 1, 1990. The banking licenses of three banks were suspended as of
November 1, 1989; the decree for the suspension of the license of the forth
by December 31, 1989 was issued on November 15, 1989. The four banks would
be liquidated beginning January 1, 1990.
56.      The new bank would be a small one with assets of about CFAF 22
billion (about US$70 million) remaining from the CFAF 180 billion (about
US$600 million) in assets of the liquidated banks. It is expected to be a
commercial bank whose capital would be subscribed in majority by private
individuals, local insurance companies, and a commercial bank that would
assume its management. Government shareholding would be a maximum of 25
percent.  It has been agreed that until a managing partner has been found,
the bank's activities would be limited to (a) managing its existing
portfolio; (b) receiving small deposits, which the commercial banks are
increasingly refusing; and (c) lending only to existing creditworthy
clients and placing liquid funds on the money market. 9/ Until a commer-
cial partner is found the bank will receive technical assistance financed
by USAID.
57.      The privatization proaram.  In a number of circumstances the
Government has used its ownership position to influence bank lending deci-
sions in ways that have been detrimental to sound banking. This has been
9/ Financi*il projections show it would be viable even with limited opera-
tions.



- 17 -
an important source of banking problems in Senegal. The Government has
decided to take steps to prevent the recurrence of such practices by
reducing its share capital in any bank to a maximum of 25 percent, which is
less than is required to be a blocking minority. The Government's share
capital in the restructured BIAOS and Credit Lyonnais-Senegal has already
been reduced to 25 percent and 5 percent, respectively. To complete its
divestiture program, the Government envisages (a) further reducing its
ownership in BIAOS to about 18 percent by not participating in the next
capital contribution provided for in the restructuring plan; (b) selling
shares in the other banks in which it holds, directly and indirectly, more
than 25 percent (namely CNCAS 10/ and BICIS) before the end of June 1990;
and (c) limiting its participation in the new bank resulting from the li-
quidation of the Government banks to a maximum of 25 percent. Reduction of
Government's direct and indirect participation in CNCAS and BICIS would be
a condition of second tranche release.
58.      The promotion of grass-roots institutions.  After the liquidation
of Government banks and the privatization of the others, the restructured
banking system (except for the new bank) will consist of commercial banks
catering mainly to large depositors and trade financing. There is a risk
that a layer of the population -- small depositors, small scale enter-
prises, and farmers -- will find access to banking services difficult. 11/
Therefore the Government intends to encourage, through an appropriate legal
and regulatory environment, the development of grass-roots structures whose
capital would be held by depositors, and which would operate on a coopera-
tive or mutualist basis.
59.      This type of financial institution would be an efficient channel
for mobil4"'ig savings and providing credit to raral and urban customers
excluded by commercial banks. It is expected that credit risk would be
reduced as peers of the borrowers would assess credit applications and
provide for social sanctions in case of default. Some promising initia-
tives -- promoted by bilateral donors and various nongovernment organiza-
tions -- are presently under way in Senegal. In the rural sector USAID and
CNCAS are promoting small savings collection/mutual credit schemes.
Canadian experts financed by CIDA are setting up a similar scheme for a
community of fishermen in Dakar. Another Canadian technical assistance
project is converting the postal savings and checking network into a grass-
roots structure that would be linked to the financial system rather than to
the Treasury, as it presently is. To promote the rapid development of a
nationwide network of such institutions -- such as the "Union des Banques
Populaires" which has efficiently mobilized savings in Rwanda -- the
Ministry of Finance intends to (a) gather information on these experiments
to understand the causes of their success or failure; (b) support the
creation of mutualist institutions in the urban areas not covered by these
initiatives; (c) work out, with the organizations involved, an action plan
10/ The Government shares in CNCAS would be sold to in priority to the
Senegalese federation of nongovernment organizations.
11/ The restructured BIAOS has already rejected deposits lower than
CFAF200,000, or about US$700.



- 18 -
for the timely confederation of these institutions under a national
institution that would manage their liquidity, provide specialized
technical assistance, and provide credit to customers neglected by the
banks; (d) put in place arrangements for proper supervision of these
institutions; and (e) propose changes in the legal and administrative
framework that would be needed to make all this happen.
60.      CIDA has agreed to finance a Canadian technical assistance team
that is expected to be in the field by early 1990 to help the Ministry of
Finance carry out the tasks outlined above. These experts' terms of
reference have been agreed upon; agreement on the action plan would be a
condition of second-tranche release.
61.      Bad debt recoverieui.  An IDA-financed consultant review has shown
that the legal provisions for bad debt recovery are broadly adequate to the
task. The problem appears to be the complexity of procedures involved,
which are similar to those prevailing in developed countries. Convinced
that bad debt recovery is critical to fair burden-sharing, the viability of
the bank restructuring financing plan, and establishment of the social
discipline that would help prevent a buildup in arrears from recurring, the
Government has indicated that it would make all arrangements necessary to
intensify and accelerate recovery of arrears.
62.      Accordingly, the Senegalese Government has proposed to establish a
fully government-owned recovery company, staffed partly by personnel laid
off by the restructured banks. It wculd be granted the right to seize deb-
tors' financial and material assets without having to go to court. Its
task would be to recover the bad loans of the restructured banks through
direct cash repayments or seizure of debtors' assets, loan rescheduling,
and other arrangements. This proposal has been discussed in detail with
the Bank. Since potential private shareholders approached by the
Government have declined to participate in the recovery company, the
Government is exploring ways to ensure its efficient operation -- for
instance, by linking salaries to amounts recovered and by subcontracting
part of the work to specialized private institutions. The Government and
IDA have reviewed and agreed on the statutes and arrangements for the
recovery company. USAID has agreed to finance the required technical
assistance.
63.      To facilitate the recovery of bad debt and to ensure that progress
is adequately monitored, an independent auditor has prepared a data bank
including all information relating to individual delinquent debtors of the
banks being restructured. The data bank would be continuously updated.
Progress on recovery would be followed by a Blue Ribbon Committee es-
tablished by the Minister of Finance. This Committee would provide
quarterly reports on progress in loan recoveries to the Minister of Finance
as well as to the donors. It would also recommend any necessary corrective
actions and supervise their implementation.
64.      Government estimates indicate that approximately CFAF 32 billion
(about US$100 million) of the CFAF 144 billion (about US$450 million) of
nonperforming credits of the banks to be restructured can ultimately be
recovered over the next four years. The Bank and the Government have



- 19 -
agreed on quantified targets that should be reached semiannually while the
program is being implemented. Recovery of the amount targeted for June 30,
1990 (CFAF 9.8 billion), would be a condition for the release of the second
tranche on or before this date. Release of the second tranche at any time
after this date would require the recovery of the amount which has been
targeted for that date in the financial workout.
65.      Cost of the bank restructuring and financina plan.  The liabili-
ties that the Government will have to assume as a result of restructuring
amounts to about CFAF 182 billion (or about US$600 million). This com-
prises a debt to the BCEAO and other banks (CFAF 131 billion) and to
depositors (CFAF 50.7 billion). In addition to these liabilities, the
Government would have to make a CFAF 14 billion cash contribution to
compensate the restructured banks that have taken over more deposit liabil-
ities than performing assets and to assume the cost of layoffs associated
with the restructuring. The total cost of the bank restructuring will
therefore amount to about CFAF 196 billion. The BCEAO has agreed to
convert bank debts of CFAF 126.5 billion into a term loan pr.yable over 15
years, including three years' grace at three percent a year. On the due
dates, the resulting installments would be automatically debited from the
Government's accounts in BCEAO's books. The debt to dep3sitors, the other
banks, and the cash contributions to the banks mentioned sarlier will be
paid by the Senegalese Government through the expected CFAF 32 billion of
proceeds from bad loan recoveries with a budget contribution of CFAF 37.5
billion, to be financed partly with external budget support. The result-
ing cash outlay from the budget is estimated at CFAF 10 to 15 billion
yearly over the next 15 years, an amount that should be compatible with
Senegal's budget. Government fulfillment of its obligations under the
financing plan will be a condition of second-tranche release.
D. SOCIAL IMPACT
66.      The impact of bank restructuring on sector employment is high, and
some 700 jobs of a total of 1700 are expected to be lost. But safety nets
are available to mitigate the impact on those losing their jobs. The banks
in question will expend a total of CFAF 3.2 billion in severance and
retraining pay, which works out to an average of 32 months' salary for the
individuals involved. A retraining program, similar to the one
successfully implemented by BIAOS, would help retrenched employees create
their own business, possibly with the support of the National Employment
Fund (created under SAL III).
67.      Another social cost associated with the FSECAL is the incr.asing
inaccessibility of the commercial banking sector to small borrowers and
depositors. For this reason the operation seeks to establish the bases for
a grass-roots banking system based on mutualist principles. The es-
tablishment of such institutions will take some time, but it is expected
that the new bank resulting from the merger of government-controlled banks
and the revitalized postal savings and checking systems will respond to the
needs of depositors in the interim.



- 20 -
PART III - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM
A. ProRram Obiectives
68.      The major objective of the proposed financial sector adjustment
credit is to restore and develop a well-functioning, broadly based finan-
cial sector the health of which is critical to continued progress in
Senegal's structural adjustment efforts. It would'support an action
program set out in the Letter of Sectoral Development Policy the main goals
of which would be (a) to introduce institutional and systemic changes that
should ensure .,alnst systemwide failure; (b) to restructure Senegal's
insolvent banking sector; and (c) to set the stage for further improve-
ments In the financial intermediation system.
B. Amount of Cofinancing and Credit
69.      Substantial cofinancing by France (US$34 million) and the United
States (US$33 million) is in place. Together with IDA-financing of US$45
million, total external resources to be provided will be about US$112
million. In effect, however, in financing CFAF 126.5 billion (or US$390
million) on concessional terms, the BCEAO is the major cofinancier of the
operation. The borrower would be the Government of Senegal.
C. Tranching. Procurement, and Disbursement
70.      Tranchina.  The proposed credit would be disbursed in two tranch-
es, the first becoming available on effectiveness, the second nine months
after disbursement of the first. In view of extensive reforms already
undertaken, 60 percent of the credit would be disbursed in the first
tranche. Disbursement of the second tranche would depend upon a review of
progress made in implementation of the program as well as satisfactory
implementation of the conditions mentioned in para. 71, as these may be
required.
71.      Procurement.  Procurement procedures have been designed to permit
rapid use of the funds wfhile ensuring efficiency and accountability in the
process. Contracts exceeding US$2 million equivalent would be subject to
international competitive bidding. For contracts below US$2 million,
public agencies would follow standard practices which have been found to be
acceptable in the past. The private sector would follow established
commercial practices, and, wherever possible, quotations from eligible
suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Direct contracting
would be used only for proprietary items or where compatibility with
existing equipment would call for standardization. Procurement
documentation would be maintained for ex-post review by IDA. Verification
of imports will be limited to inspection for quality and quantity by the
Customs Department, which is to be strengthened under a plan of action to
be supported by SAL IV.
72.      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the credit would be used to reim-
burse 100 percent of the CIF cost of eligible general imports. Public and
private sector imports would be eligible, except for:



- 21 -
(a)   negative list;
(b)   imports of goods procured under contracts costing less than
US$ 5,000 equivalent;
(C)   imported goods already financed under tied bilateral or
multilateral credits; and
(d)   imported goods purchased in the local market.
73.      The Government would establish a Special Account at the Central
Bank in an amount equivalert to US$3 million to facilitate disbursements.
The account would be replenished regularly or. the basis of fully documented
disbursement applications in excess of US$l million or on the basis of
statements of expenditures for expenditures below that amount. The Central
Bank would maintain all relevant supporting documentation for review by IDA
supervision missions. Retroactive financing would be permitted for an
amount not exceeding 20 percent of the total credit amount for eligible
imports procured no earlier than four months prior to credit signing. It
is proposed that not more than US$10 million equivalent each would be
allowed for imports of petroleum and food.
D. Management. Monitoring. and Reporting of the Program
74.      Senegal's structural adjustment programs have been effectively
managed by an interministerial committee since SAL II. Given the purely
financial nature of the proposed program, however, the main interlocutor
would continue to be the Ministry of Finance, with whom major questions
bearing upon bank restructuring, banking supervision reform, the design of
a recovery program for bad debts, and macropolicy issues must be discussed
and agreed upon. Quarterly reports on bad debt recoveries (para. 63) and
bank inspection reports would come to us through the Ministry of Finance.
Much of the work associated with implementation of the program would have
to be carried out with the BCEAO, with whom we expect to maintain the good
working relations that were established during the preparation of this
operation. We will also continue to collaborate with the DMF, France and
the United States, particularly for further work that will be required for
second tranche release. Moreover, we expect to call upon the Professional
Bankers' Association (APB) to help review progress on crop credit and
reform of the prior authorization procedure.
75.      The Letter of Sectoral Development Policy.  The letter, which
forms the basis for the FSECAL, and in which the Government declares its
commitment to the proposed program, has been finalized during negotiations
and officially received by the Bank.
76.      Condition of Second Tranche Release
(a)   Consultation on the results of the study of measures
permitting the suppression of bank-by-bank credit ceilings
and, if warranted, agreement of procedures and appropriate
timing for the replacement of these ceilings by more market-
oriented mechanisms (para. 31);



- 22 -
(b)   Satisfactory review of the functioning of new systems of
crop credits and prior authorizations by the borrower, BCEAO
and APB. Where reviews showed deficiencies, corrective
measures would have been taken to improve functioning of the
prior authorization system or of the new crop credit system
(paras. 37 and 42);
(c)   The financial restructuring of ESK, MASSRAF and BIAOS would
have been completed (para. 53);
(d)   The Government would have reduced its direct and in direct
shareholding in each bank and financial institution to less
than 25 percent (para. 57)
(e)   Agreement on a program of action to facilitate the
establishment of a network of grass-roots banks (para. 60);
(f)   An acceptable bad debt recovery level would be reached
(para. 64);
(g)   The Government would be current in the payment of all its
liabilities incurred in the financial restructuring package
(para. 65); and
(h)   Performance in the implementation of the Government's on-
going macroeconomic adjustment program would be
satisfactory.
E. Coordination with the IMF
77.      Coordination with the IW  on the FSECAL was critical during
preparation, particularly inasmuch as the proposed FSECAL has been as-
sociated with a number of major policy reforms at the UMOA level which were
worked out jointly with the IMP. Coordination with the IMF will continue
to be intense with respect to the details of reform measures yet to be
worked out as well as their operational consequences. Our collaboration on
this issue with the Fund has been good in the past, and we expect it to
continue.
F. Benefits and Risks
78.       Benefits.  The potential benefits of this FSECAL are substantial.
Not only should it result in a rehabilitation of the Senegalese banking
system -- as well as in reforms that should preclude a repeated crisis --
but it should also establish an improved financial intermediation system
that should ultimately aid in the mobilization and term-transformation of
financial resources and in their channeling to borrowers hitherto largely
excluded from access to credit. The project is thus a necessary complement
to measures aimed at private sector development provided for under SAL IV:
without an effectively performing ba'kir.g sector it is unlikely that
Senegal will be able to break out of the doldrums that currently affect its
economy, particularly the industrial sector.



- 23 -
79.      Risks.  The potential risks associated with this sector adjustment
credit should be acceptable, given the fact that many reform measures
associated with the operation have already been undertaken. However, there
is a potential financial risk in that a slow recovery of bad debts may
jeopardize Senegal's budgetary equilibrium and eventually force payment
delays to depositors. Apart from the equity considerations involved, this
may in itself have undesirable repercussions both on financial liquidity as
a whole and on public attitudes toward the banks.
PART IV - BANK GROUP STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
A. Country Assistance Strategy
80.      Bank strategy in Senegal has two broad and interrelated
objectives. The first objective is to assist the Government in the
short/medium term in rectifying structural imbalances in the economy which
are the cumulative result of internal and external shocks as well as policy
distortions over several years. The means employed have been to improve
the incentive environment and to promote greater efficiency in economic
management. The instruments to support this objective have been adjustment
lending, buttressed by appropriate technical assistance operations. The
second objective is to promote a sustainable level of long-term growth and
development. The instruments designed to address this objective are
sector-based rehabilitation/investment projects, within an appropriate
framework of sectoral policy reforms.
8l.      The country's development strategy, as spelled out in the most
recent Policy Framework Paper for 1989/90 to 1991/92, lays heavy emphasis
in the short term on improving incentives for private investment;
rehabilitating the banking system and deregulating the financial sector;
and improving resource utilization and expenditure control in the public
sector. These objectives are supported by the policy reforms to be
supported through SAL IV which is being processed in parallel with this
operation. Together, these two operations are expected to improve the
utilization of existing production capacity and thus improve the
competitiveness of Senegalese industry. Furthermore, they would increase
the volume and improve the quality of investments both public and private
and thus enhance growth prospects in the medium term. Beyond 1992,
Government recognizes the need to rebuild productive capacity even as the
stabilization and structural reforms begun earlier continue. Thus, the
public investment program for that period includes major projects in energy
distribution and in water supply and highway rehabilitation and
maintenance, for which IDA financial assistance has been requested. The
proposed lending program in the period beyond FY91 is thus balanced between
investment programs in urban infrastructure and services (sanitation,
water, energy) and policy-cum-investment operations. which focus un further
private sector development, on environment and on human resources
development.
82.      Given Senegal's membership of UMOA and of the CFA Franc Zone, the
depreciation of the real exchange rate which is required to increase the
external competitiveness of the Senegal economy would be achieved by



- 24 -
implementing, over an extended period of time, appropriate demand
management policies together with additional measures to reduce production
costs and to encourage production of tradables. Nonetheless, Senegal is
expected to be able to meet its objectives over the medium term, provided
it consistently applies that required policy measures which are being
supported through this operation and through SAL IV.
A. Bank Group Operations. Past and Future
83.      As of September 30, 1989, the Bank Group had approved 88
operations in Senegal for a total of about US$916 million, consisting of 57
IDA credits (including three Special Fund credits), 20 Bank loans, together
with two SFA, and nine IFC operations. To date, 39 credits and the 20
loans have been fully disbursed. Of the 24 active projects, 5 are in
agriculture or rural development, 4 are in industry and energy, 6 in
infrastructure, 3 in human resources; there are also 6 TA and adjustment
operations. The Small Rural Operations II Project ($16 million) was
approved in March 1989. As discussed above, for the next few years Bank
assistance will focus heavily on adjustment, particularly at the sectoral
level.
84.      In the area of Structural Adjustment, the SAL II and SAL III
operations have been successfully completed. 12/ The main reforms
initiated under SAL II consisted of improvements in the industrial
incentives system; liberalization of agricultural input supply and rice
marketing; and improvement in the management of public resources. Most of
the reforms supported under SAL III represented a continuation and a
deepening of those initiated under the preceding SAL. Additional actions
included initial measures to improve financial intermediation, the
formulation of population policy, and the alleviation of the adverse
transitional impact on employment caused by structural adjustment.
85.      After SALs II and III, Senegal's economy has been substantially
liberalized, with free movement of goods within the country largely
unencumbered by price controls, and imports unhindered by quantitative
restrictions. The private sector now plays a more important role,
especially in trade and the processing of agricultural products. Progress
has been made in fiscal and debt management. Investment programming has
been strengthened and the system of economic planning is being reformed. A
population policy was adopted and an action program is being implemented.
In contrast, progress was less than anticipated in three other principal
areas. Whilst most planned financial sector actions were implemented, the
dimension of the banking system crisis was underestimated by both the Bank
and the Government (para. 12). Labor hiring practices were reformed though
Government was unable to pass legislation that would have increased labor
market flexibility in a meaningful way. The public enterprise sector
continues to be a major financial burden on the economy despite the
implementation of a program of reforms. In particular, though progress was
made in identifying public enterprises for privatization, it is only
12/ A Program Completion Report for SALs II and III (June 1989) is
available.



- 25 -
recently that the program of public enterprise privatization began to have
some response. As a result, the Senegal economy is now more open and
exposed to competition from abroad, but significant constraints remain to
be effectively tackled in order for a supply side response to be
forthcoming. A major reason for the lagging investment and supply side
response is the persistence, despite the measures taken under SALs II and
III, of certain rigidities in the economy, and in particular the weight of
public consumption (the high wage bill of the civil service and the
deficits of the public enterprises), the over-regulation of the labor
market and the crisis in the banking sector.
86.      SAL IV would thus focus on relatively fewer areas than previous
SALs and would support a limitjd number of critical actions. The key
policy areas which will be addressed represent a consolidation and a
deepening of policies initiated under the previous SALs, and include: (i)
private sector incentives, i.e., reduction in the costs of production
(especially labor, energy and transport) and further improvement in the
incentives system as well as the regulatory environment; (ii) public sector
resource management, i.e., cutbacks in both current spending for the civil
service wage bill and transfers to parastatals, better investment
programming, and improvement in the revenue base; and (iii) minimization of
the social costs of adjustment. Existing technical assistance projects are
supporting the formulation and implementation of the various action
programs included in the SAL operations, with measures to improve the
management of public investment, public debt, personnel information and
career development, as well as management of economic information and the
development of a policy formulation capacity.
87.      The next phase of reforms in the agricultural sector will be
supported by the Bank under a separate Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (SECAL). This phase will be characterized by policy development in
areas complementary to the thrust of the improvements made to date. The
overall aim of the SECAL is to support more efficiency and price
responsiveness in agriculture, a decrease in government controls, and the
elimination of subsidies. In particular, the reforms to be pursued will
be: (i) in the cereals subsector, further review of the system of
protection with the overall goal of encouraging the production and
transformation of coarse grains in which Senegal has a comparative
advantage (i.e., millet and sorghum), diversifying production into other
crops such as maize, and further liberalizing the rice market; (ii) in the
groundnut subsector, action to reduce losses in processing, privatization
of confectionery groundnuts and revised protection against imported oils as
a precursor to the eventual elimination of all subsidies; (iii) a full
review of the agricultural credit system; and (iv) the development of an
appropriate land tenure and land management regimes to encourage resource
conservation and long-te.m private investment, especially in the Fleuve
region. Measures to reduce losses in the cotton subsector and to promote
diversification for exports would also be pursued.
88.      The two other sectors where important reforms are to be pursued
are transport and human resources. Major improvement is being sought in
the planning, operations and management of the transport sector in Senegal.
A dialogue has been established with the government since a policy review



- 26 -
meeting with the Bank in 1986. Broad agreement, as included in the
Declaration of Transport Policy, has been reached on the need for reforms
in three main areas: (i) improved investment planning in the sector with a
target of at least 80 percent of investment in the sector earmarked for
infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation, and a stronger emphasis on
repairing the dilapidated highway network through 1991; (ii) increased
mobilization of resources from the sector through improved efficiency, cost
control and revised tariff policies, policies which are expected to be
especially vital in the railways and ports subsectors; and (iii)
strengthened sector management through a series of institutional reforms,
including revising the legal status and increasing the autonomy of the
railways parastatal. Improved transport efficiency is a key factor in the
process of increasing market responsiveness in the economy and reducing
costs of production for agriculture and industry.  The envisaged government
investment program for the period 1989-93 Drovides for an increasing role
for the private sector, with a minimum of one-third of future road
maintenance to be contracted out.
89.      The development of the human resource potential of Senegal is of
high priority if the growth possibilities created by structural adjustment
are to be exploited. The government in consultation with the Bank has
identified a number of areas where policy reforms are required: (i) with
regard to population policy, legal and regulatory changes are envisaged to
counter biases in favor of large families and against women, and a revised
priority investment and action program is to be prepared; (ii) with regard
to health, total expenditure is expected to grow in real terms to, inter
alia improve the "field effectiveness" of health services and to implement
an essential drug distribution program; and (iii) with regard to education,
spending will be refocused on basic and primary education with a target
increase in enrollment ratios from the present 56 percent to 65 percent by
1995. and on increasing the autonomy of technical and professional schools
to cater for demands other than that of the government services. The Bank
expects to support this program through a Human Resource Development SECAL.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
90.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November   , 1989



TAGSAL4.WKI 13-Ho.-SO
SENOML - MY ECOMMUC DOICATOOlS i_j                                                                                              11/13;89
< ------------------------ Actual ------------------------------------       ------ ------------------------ PrOjwt4W  ---------------------------------------
19"     1981     IQ92     1983      igm      1995     1906     1057      igm      19"      199D      1991     low      1993      1994     im       19"       I"?
----    ----     ----     ----      ----     ----     ----     ----      ----     ----     ----      ----     ----     ----      ----     ----     ----      ----
Iteal MP 9,outb "to                              -0.3   -0.0    IS.2         2.6    -4.9       3.0       4.3      4.0      6.1      -1.3      4.8      3.9      3.8       3.9      3.4      3.6       3.6      8.4
Roal CW  lpmtk rate                              -3.6    -1.7    14.0        2.2    -5.3       3.0       3.9      5.2      5.2      -1.4      8.4      4.4       4.2      4.3      4.0      4.0       4.0      8.9
a" I CW  PW  C" Ito grentAb rate                 -4.2   -4.4       It.?    -0.0    -4.0        1.0      0.8       2.2      2.*    -4.2        2.4      1.5       1.2      1.3      1.1      1.0       1.0      1.0
ot"l Pri-Commump. ow  capits onnth rate          -1.0     0.7       6.8    -2.9    -11.6       4.4       0.9     17.4    -0.2    -4.2         8.6      1.9       I.5,     0.0    -0.4    -0.9         0.1     -1. I
Lmw-*-m magic am  2L/ (io 8 aillious)           M-0  IM.0  1234.8  3494.7  IM. I   29".0  2644-4   NO?,&  OM-2   311104.6   OW.0  SM.5   W71.0   8910.5  4m. ?   4=.s  4M.0   Sm.s
LT pwbi i c OW/empo"o glooda h ear,,.           IOD.9    W.0   127.0   145.6    U4.2   2U. I   =&.9   248.4   240.0   291.8    M.$    212.6    201.4    111.3   1112.11   175.5   269.0    16411.2
LT public OMIW                                   82.4   40.7    40.1    $0. 6        Ma       77.1     45.7    46.7    40.2        U.0    $7. a       64.2     42.2      so. 7    541.41    57.0     60.4     56.4
LT public 4ob% eo"ice (O milliofte)             170.0   10.2    48.1    56.9    $*.a    44.2   207.4   273.0    349.7   On. 9    set's    M4.5    "0.2    334. 0    =D.*   293.3    274.0    254.1
LT public 04% aerice/lEmpone 03 G_j              W       0.8       4.6      6.8      0.7    10.2    19.0        21.7     25.6    27.4    24-8        22.0      19.2    16.4    14.4    12.0         10.2      5.5
LT public Mobt, ec"ice/WP                         6.0     S.?       1.7      2.3      8.6      3.4      6.5       6.0      7.0      8.1       7.1      0.9      8.9       5.2      4.4      4.0      8.4       2.9
LT public latereek/Eparte GU 8_/                  6.2    111.0     8.6       4.0      5.8      4.0      0.2       4.0      0.2      9.9      a's       7.3      6.0       5.1      4.4      S.0      8.4       3.0
LT public lobereetlW                              1.0     1.7       1.0      1.7      2.2      1.4      2.8       2.4      2.4      2.9      2.5       2.2       1.0      1.6      1.4      1.3       1.1      1.0
Q"no ;.W       %/GIIP                            18.9   10.0    14.7    L5.2    13.4    18. 1          14.8      18.2    14.5    16.2    15.6         is. 5    13.4      15.6    19.2    is. T       14. 7    Ir.?
Doesetic owtona/W                                -0.8    -1.7       1.7      8.1      4.4      2.6      8.9       6.2      7.1      0.1      4.6       9.3      7.9       0.2      V.0      9.7      10.4     12.1
MlD%i4MGI W%ViftggSjW                            -4.9   -4.0    -2.4        -1.9      0.5    -2.9        1.4      2.0      2.9      4.9       512      D. I     5.1       8.0      ?.*      9.0      0.1      11.0
lbraims moiamel goviagge rate (..r.to OW)         1.7     1.2      0.2       0.5    -0.5    -0. 0        1.1      0.1      0.2     -1.6       0.1      0.0      0.0       0.2      0.4      0.3      0.4       0.4
Public ievemb"061W                                0.0     4.4      4.0       4.0      4.2      4.1      4.3       4.9
Pablic matiamo eaviaps/111110
Private investtlcDp                              9.4   10.6    10.1    10.7    10.4           Ca      10.8    10.8
private "Siami no.iago/W
P4abI;v/p,;vm%o i"Sepaumb mbie                   OD.*   42.0    $0.7    37.9    40.0    44.0           41.8,    42.4
icon s_j                                                                              3.4      4,0      9.2      7.8       0.4      6.0      4.0       4.9      4.7      5.0      S-V      4.2       4.3       4 4
Oeve,,mmet. revenue.                             21 1   20.7    11.4    19.4    19.4    14.9    Is. 1            18.2    is. a     17.5    1Q.2       Ls. 4    19.4    10.4    19.4    19.4         10.4      10.4
Q.O.WA 0 0  1.4 met laudime/Clip                 30.2   $1.2      2Y.6      29.4     24.6    22.4      21.3      2D. 4    20.0     21.0     2D.2      19.2    17.0    18.0    la.&    10.4          10.2      20-1
thwticit, C-) o, surplus C-)/4MP 7_/             -0. I   -10.6    -0.2    -7.2    -6.8    -4.2    -3.2    -2.4    -8.2    -2.5    -2.1    -0.8                  1.6       1.4      1.2      1.1      1.2       1.8
(cmeeia. beeis. o-I.gpaa%a)
Steel VW    rate of )OM    4_j                   -4.4     9.1      4.8       0.0    -7.2   -12.7        5.0    12.6        5.6     -1.2      0.0       4.4      4.4      5.0      5.1       6.2      6.4       8.5
E-por" owsmr  4-i                                M-7   81.5       =.?    30.7    20.7    25.0    25.2    27.3    27.4              77.4     27.2      27.3    27.4    2?.8    2D 2         29.6     20.1      29.6
noM war"  rotw of MOWS  4-/                       Y.4   16.8    -4.4         8.0    -9.8    -4.9    -6.2    46.8    -2.8            0.4      0.0       4.7      4.1      2.5      8.8       B.4      8.3       2.6
INPcwto ows/w     4-/                            ".7    61.0    48.1    43.8    41.3    87. 1          U.7      47.2    48 7       44.8    466.0     48.3    45.4    45.2    45.a    46.2           45.0      46.0
C.rremb accomb below* (a Si II.) B_j           -M-8, -M.*  -"7.0  -445.4  -4to.,D  -45o. 4   -612.7  -470.8  -W. a   -"]L.&  -430, y   -441.8  -616.2  -1124.1  -3W. a   -5". 5   -6=. a   -496 1
C .. % OCCOMS/IMP  S_j                         -17.7  -25.9    -IY.4   -14. I   -17.7   -17.6    -14.4    -tO.2    -9.4    -8. a           -4.4    -0.5    -0.6    -0. 1        -7.1    -7.3       -8.4      -5. 4
C.-m,% accomme, baleacm, (I mi II.)            4M.1  -482.6  -266.9  -287.0  -212.8  -317.4  -610.7  -257.4  -26a. 2   -104.1  -199.4  -226.4  -244.8  -2?4.2  -266 6   -296.4  -271 4   -245 2
C.,ra% mccovet/Cor, 6_/                        -13.     so. ?    -10.3   -11.7    -11.7   -12.4    -11.0    -9. S        -5. a    -3.9    -3.7       -4.0    -4.4    -4.3    -4.1    -4.0          -3.3      -2.0
lftrcl. Tares of Sea"  imle. (1900-100)        100':  -122.2   104.7   107.1   122.8   124.2   142.4   140.0   135.8    145.5   146. 0    147.4   145.6   143.9   242.0   139.9    140.0    M.9
V. UN to.)
Ij All figorem, are peacentagoo. male" otheraime p -jf;q4.
2-/ F"i ic ead publ icly samrsteaml "bt ousesmodi.9 -d dib.r.".
3-/ F;-e-roo, m-Spo.  y-, is.
4_j Owri.od f,oo coaet% 19W prices 4*to (tro" date f"m MOCmel Acconte for 29WBS; b" froo ealgwv, of Psygov,te for Igo?-97).
S_/ E.O.ding fficisl trwaf.re.
6_1 1-1.d.na official t'"ofo'e.
W..it    -,01.0 -  ccoa.uvvt be.;*.                                                                                                                                                                         DQ
r-itL-c-                                                                                                                                                                                    M  M
0
%-n



SU3AL  -  ALAIQ OF PAYMENTS                            A.npX  T
______________________                                n a 7 e Z  of  5
(16I mIllins at Current Peicoo)
Actual                      Prelim.                 Projections
1900    191     196      198        6    17    1963 199 i  196     Iw      1092    1997
A.  Exports ft Goods A NfS             606.6   946.6   900.4   S02.0  107.0  1165.5  121.1  31116.7  1413.6  17S9.1  2911.5
1. I4acrhandia  (FOB)                421.7  606.    507.6   461.0   611.0   673.1   760.5   647.4   925.8  1120.1  1917.2
2. Non-Factor Services               3S5.1   841.0   302.6   S21.0   416.0   492.3   510.7   S21.8    m8.3   618.9   69.3
0.  Zaorts of ^da A NEF               1214.7  1291.9  l18g.7  11I8.0  1484.0  1448.0  15I8.5  1592.1  1719.4  2061.1  0210.0
1. Merchandise (FOB)                 8-7.1   917.8   818.0   790.0  1010.0   948.0  1009.4  1061.8  1148.0  1411.7  2248.4
2. Non-Factor Services               M.    874.6   369.8 Z;l.0   429.0   500.0   524.1   580.8   88.3   660.4   968.6
C.  Resource Balanc                   -407.9  -W.1  -26.8   -M1.0  -407.0  -2mf.s  -262.8  -228.4  -256.8  -842.0  -398.5
D.  0at Factor Inc.                    -9.6   -9e.7  -122.0  -146.4  -261.7  -223.4  -257.4  -259.9  -227.8  -209.0  -141.1
1. Faetor ReceIptw                    2s.7    25.8    15.7    18.6    17.8    20.0    20.1    20.1    27.9    89.6    76.4
2. Factor Pymts                      12U2.8   124.2   18. 6   U0.0   249.0   248.4   251.8   210.0   25#.7   24.6   217.5
(interest payment.)                67.0    41.8    51.6    42.9    97.7   115.6   I10.4   149.0   1J8.4   11.6.4    90.2
E.  Net Currant Transfer. (priv.)      -19.6    -1.6      0.3    17.0    28.0    80.6    81.4    02.1    32.9    84.7    44.6
1. Currant Receipts                   76.0    59.2    54.S    02.6    62.1    74.9   7r.2    76.9    81.8    94.2   104.0
a.  orker-' remittances            74.6   1U.1    60.4    22.2         ..    74.9    73.2    73.9    61.9    94.2   104.0
b. othr currant trans.              1.0      4.1     8.9    60.4       ..     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Currant Payente                    95.8    60.6    54.0    6.8    86.1    46.8    46.6    46.6    46.7    59.4    59.4
F.  Curraot Account Balance           -M.    -445.4  -410.9  -480.4   412.7  -470.8  -416.8  -481.8  -480.7  -518.2  -49W.1
(exal.offlcial trwnafr-)
0.  Lag-Tere Capital  fIo              422.1   406.6   871.7   879.0   42.0   811.4   811.6   807.0   448.4   876.4   616.1
1. Direct Investmnt                   12.9   -6.8    27.2   -4.6    -2.0   44.6   -72.9   -1U.1           4.0    25.2      6.7
2. Official Cpital Crant.            140.2   167.0   186.7   I18.0   2012.0   218.0   206.0   237.2   251.8   249.9   249.9
8. Not LT Lons (on data)             191.7   302.1   169.    1 1.J   216.4   197.0   179.4    87.9   19S.1   10.S   809.5
a. Cibura t.                      818.4   S20.1   204.0   212.1   871.7   366.5   410.0   858.8   448.1   389.9   473.4
b. Rapajente                      126.7    18.0    84.7    46.6   113.3   169.6   20.6   215.8   2S6.0   286.6   168.9
4. Other LT InfIoes (net)             77.3   -19.6    #1.6    e6.0    25.6       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
H.  Total Other Itr_ (not)              57.6    21.6    13.0    86.8   124.5   171.6   11S.9   216.1   -15.0         0.0     0.0
1. Nat Short Tere Capital             68.5    S6.8    29.8    91.7    51.7       0.0    -6.0      0.0   -18.0      0.0     0.0
2. Capital Floe N.E.I.                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
8. Errors nd Omlsions                -25.7   -14.4   -16.8   -8S.4    72.8   171.8   166.9   216.1        0.0      0.0     0.0
0BfALL fALME  (F*C"                -416.8   -19.7   -26.1   -13.1   -4.2    66.6       9.2    91.9   -17.3  -13r.8   121.0
I.  Change in Nat Rerves                46.8    19.7    26.2    13.1      6.2   -8.6    -2.2   -91.6   -91.4   -44.5  -140.5
1. Het Cradit frog PW                 87.2    12.8      4.2    40.8     6.2   -17.5    13.8    13.1       4.8   -40.0   -37.7
2. Other Reerve egh                    9.2      7.1    22.0   -27.2      0.0   -89.1   -21.0  -104.9   -05.7   -4.7  -102.S
i-indicatas incres")
J.  Additional financing reuired         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   108.7   162.4    19.5
(gapfillfr net of amortization
an  interest aps)
(CAt'd an neat page)



Annex I
SeASOAL   - BALANCE OF PAYMEWS                       Page  3  of  S
(USI millions at Current Prices)
Ac4tul                         Prelim.                  Projections
191o     1905     1984    1985    l98      1987      198"     ls9     199o      1992     1997
Sheroo of 0DP (Current US):
__________________________
1. R.aoerc bwlanc.                        -18.7   -14.0   -12.4   -12.5   -10.9    -6.0    -5.8    -4.5    -4.8    -5.6              *4.5
2. Total Intesat Pym_nbe                    1.9      1.7      2.2      1.7      2.6      2.5      2.6      3.0      2.6      1.9      1.0
3. Cwrent Account B lance                 -17.7   -16.1   -17.7   -17.6   -16.4   -10.2    -9.4    -6.6    -8.4    -8.5    -5.l
4. LT Capital Inflow (lino 0)              14.2    16.4    15.0    14.5    12.9          7.7      6.8      6.1      8.4      6.2      7.0
5. Not Credit fro- the DhF                  1.8      0.6      0.2      1.6      0.2    -0.4       0.4      0.6      0.1    -0.7    -0.4
Memorandum Ite:
(MP (mill. of Current USS)               2970.0  2465.0  2824.0  25t4.0  8740.0  4899.4  4979.7  4994.8  356.7  6059.4  8816.8
Foreign Exchange Resorves:
1. Inull. Reserve, (IFS lid)                8.0     12.2      3.7      8.1      9.4      9.2      --                -
2. Cold (end ye London peice)              17.0    11.2       9.6      9.4     11.7    18.7       ---      ---
3. CGrow Reseres incl. Gold                25.0    28.4   1.3    14.5    21.1    22.9
4. Ciaro  Re. in Months Imports NFS        0.2      0.2      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      ---      ---
Exchanag Rat" (CFAF/A):
1. Nom. Off. X-Rteb (IFS rh)              211.3   881.1   487.0   449.8   548.3    S00.5          ---      ---
2. Real Eff. X-Rate (1980100)            100.0    92.0    94.0   105.0   112.0   106.0           ---      ---
S. X-Rate for  W Conveerion               211.8   81.1   4S7.0   449.8   848.3   800.5           .     ..      -    --



Annex I
Pago 4 of 6
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
I. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1989)
-------------------------------------------------------------------__
Amount In USS million
(loes cancel lations)
Und;s-
Credit No.   Year   Borrower  Purpose                               Bank      IDA         barsed
A. Thirty-nine (389) credits closed                                            420.57
C11630-SEN    1981    SENECAL    Forestry                                        9.36       2.42
C11766-SEN    1982    SENEGAL    Agricultural Research                          19.60       0.74
C13100-SEN    1988    SENEOAL    Rural Health                                   15.60       8.68
CF0130-SEN    1984    SENEOAL    T.A. for Urban M9.t A Rehab.                    2.95       0.26
C13980-SEN    1284    SENEGAL    Parapublic II T.A.                             11.00       1.06
C14060-SEN    1984   SENEOAL    Eastern Senegal Rural                           18.10       6.11
C14690-SEN    1984   SENEGAL    Dakar Port III                                   2.06       0.82
C16640-SEN    1985   SENEGAL    Water Supply II                                 24.00       1.96
C17100-SEN    1988   SENEGAL    Energy Sector Rehab.                            29.00      12.24
C17140-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Telecom  II                                    22.00      17.6e
C17360-SEN    1987   SENEGAL    Primary Education Dev.                          12.06       9.11
ClOSS-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Irrigation IV                                  88.80      29.23
C18868-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Industry Sector                                88.66      28.78
C16;40-SEN    1988    SENEGAL    Muniecpal Housing Dev.                         48.66      40.26
C19100-SEN    1988   SENEGAL    T.A. for Development Mgat                       17.00      18.65
C18021-SEN    1989   SENEGAL    SAL III                                          6.60          °
C19920-SEN    1989    SENEGAL    Small Rural Ope. II                            18.16      1.837
B. Seventeen (17) ongoing credits                                              3065.76    179.76
C. Twenty (20) Loans closed                                         129.B8
Total                                                               129.88     728.27
of which repaid                                                    52.82      14.92
Total held by Bank & IDA                                             78.71     711.86
Amount sold             6.76
of which repaid       8.26
Total Undisbursed                                                                         179.76
uzs



Annex I
Page s of 6
It. Statemnt of IFC Invet.mente (As of September 81, 1989)
Amount In USS million
Equity
Fiscal Year    Obligor                            Type of Business                   Loan     Investment   Total
1967           Soclite Industrielle d'Engrais   Fertilizer Plant                       2.45        1.01       3.46
du Senegal (SIES)
1972-74        BUD Senegal                        Vegetable Export                        -       0.84        0.84
1974           SOFISSDIT                          Development Finance Co.                         0.34        0.34
1980           Banque de l'Habitat du Senegal    Money A Capital Markot                   -       0.48        0.46
1980           Socite Hotel lore du Berechois    Tourism                               8.00           -       3.00
1982           Industrieos Chimiques du Senogal   Fertilizer Plant                    25.00          -       26.00
1984           African Seafood                    Fish Processing Plant                8.29       0.91        4.20
1986           SOTIDA-SIWPAFRIC                   Print Manufacturing                  8.20          -        8.20
9988           Industries Chl-lque du             Fertilizer Plant                    12.00       6.16       12.16
Sneal II                                                              -------    ---_--    -------
Total  .ross Comitmnts                                                 48.94       8.71      62.66
Loes Cancellations, Terminations,
Repaymentc, Sale  and Losses                                           82.84       1.86      34.19
8.60        1.86      18.46
Total Com_itments hold by IFC                                         -------    -------    -------
__  _  _________ ______________



Annex TI
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(i)      Time taken to prepare the programs        28 months
(ii)     Initial discussions with IDAt             June 1987
(iii)    Appraisal missiont                        June 15-30, 1989
(iv)     Negotiations:                             November 2-3, '989
(v)      Planned date of effectiveness:            December 1989



SENESALi  FSECAL POLICY MATRIX                                                                       ANNEX IIl
Page I of 5
REFORN AREAS                                    STATUS                                            FSECAL ACTION PROGRAM                            CONDITIONS FOR
1. BANKING SECTOR REFORMS
1. Bank Restructuring
Purge private/sewi-publsc                       - USB has been liquidated, with sound             -Arrangements with respect to                    Completed
banks of non-performing assets                  assets taken over by Credit Lyonnais -            functions of new bank and of
through urite-offs or restructuring             Senegal in July J969.  Preliminary                recovery company (statutes, operating
Liquidate public banks,                         arrangements for BIADS completed.                 sanuals, etc.) would be submitted
The public banks were put in receiver-           to IDA for review.
ihip an August 1989. A new bink is
being created fros viable assets of
public banks.  Non-performing assets             -Financial restructuring of 05K,                  Second Tranche
of restructured or liquidated banks              DASSRAF and 814QS would be completed.
will be assigned to a recovery
cuspany.
2. Financial Workouts
Establish a viable fiancing scheme              -BCEAO agreed to a substantial                    -Government mould be current in payment          Second Tranche
for write-off of non-performing                 increase in amounts of debt                       of annual liabilities incurred in
assets and liquidation of public                associated with restructuring                     restructuring.
banks, with appropriate burden-                 to be consolidated, as Nell as to
sharing by Central Rank, 6overneent             a major softening in terms Ito IS
and private shareholders.                       years with 3 years grace, at 31
interest) over conditions originally
proposed. Budgetary ipact of
restructuring on Treasury agreed
by IDA and government is
sustainable.
S. Divestiture
Government will reduce its direct               -Government's participation in USB/               -Government's share in the new                   Second Tranche
and indirect participation In all               Credit Lyonnais has been reduced                  bank will be no more than 25 percent.
banks and financial institutions                from 62 to 5 percent, and in BIAD                 Governeent's direct and indirect
to 25 percent or below.                         from 35 to 25 percent.                            share in CNCAS and DICIS mill be reduced
to 25 percent.



ANNEI 111
Page 2 of 5
REFORI AREAS                                    STATUS                                            FSECAL ACTION PROGRAM                            CONDITIONS FOR
4. Bad debt Recoveries
Recoveries of bad debt (estimated               -Government has proposed to                       -Final deteruination of feasible                 Completed
at about 201 of totall.                         establish a recovery coepany which                schedule for, and total imounts of
would have right to seize debtors'               recoveries by independent audit
financial and material assets
without going to court.                          -A Blue Ribbon Coemittee will be                  Cospleted
Institution will be in place, with               designated to review progress on
USAID-financed TA, by October J909,              debt recovery on an on-going basis.
-An acceptable level of recoveries --            Second Tranche
CFAF 9.8 billion by June, 19qO --
will be achieved following estimates
of independent audicor.
5. Cooperative Banking Structures
The development of a grass-roots                -The development of these grnss-roots            -The TOR of a CIDA-financed                       Completed
Icooperative/sutualist) system will be          institu;tions will be encouraged                 technical assistance team mbich
encouraged permitting t;e mobilization          through an appropriate legal and reg-            mould work toward the establishment
of small scale savings and access               ulatory environment.  USAID is promoting         of a grass-roots netrork would be
to credit SIES.                                 mutual credit schemes in the rural               drawn up and agreed to.
areas, and a CIDA TA project is aiming
at the integration of the postal                 -An action progras emanating from                 Second Tranche
savings/checking with a broad-based              CIDA proposals would be agreed to.
mutualist structure.
11.  BANK SUPERYISION
I. Strengthening and Reforms oi
Bank Supervision and Control
hechanisms
Upgrade Bank inspections and ensure             -8CEAD headquarters will reinforce
follow-up of inspection reports.                its inspections and increase
Update banking Iaws and regulations             their periodicity.  A regional banking
and develop uniform uccounting systes.          commission is being established under
the aegis of the BCEAD. BCEAO has
begun a systematic review of banking
laws to be upgraded and modernized.
A uniform accounting systes will be
introduced.



ANIEI Ill
Page 3 of 5
REFORM AREAS                                   STATUS                                           FSECAL ACTION PROGRAM                           CONDITIONS FOR
Ill.  MACRO-LEVEL REFORMS ISenegal)
1. Reform of Policies Directly
Prejudicial to Sound Banking
Policies common to UMOA but                    -Abolition of targeted credit
odministered separately by Senegal             quotas agreed to by the Senegalese
and other  kesber governments which            in advance of UNOA Council of
have been prejudicial to health                Ministers decision to establish
of the individual banks are to be              these guidelines taken in  August
removed.                                       1909.
-The GSO  has agreed to abolish all             -Formal abolition by cecree
Governeent guarantees of domestic               of Septesber 10, 1989.
borrowing.
-Crop credits.  Incentive for                   -Vorking of new crop credit system              Second Tranche
overborrowing mill be materially                will have been reviewed in consultation
reduced by abolition of TEP;                    Nith the APO and required corrective
OCEAD is requiring a clear financing            measures undertaken.
plan (to cover eventual subsidies?
for all crop marketing credits. In
iddition, Senegal is dropping all
efforts to oblige banks to participate
in crop credit consortia.
-Prior authorizations.  The UNOA                -Functioning of the nem system                  Second Tranche
Council of hinsters endorsed both               in Senegal would be reviewed and
an increase in thresholds                       corrective measures would be taken.
and a relaxation of                             measures would be taken.
current procedures. Moreover,
application of the mechanism
woujd no longer be associated
with targeted credit guidelines.



ANNEI IIl
Page 4 of 5
REFORM AREAS                                     STATUS                                             FSECAL ACTION PROSRAII                             CONDITIONS FOR
2. Reforms toward Improved
Financial Intermediation
Abolish bank-by-bank credit ceilings             -The UMDA Council of Ministers agreed              -Agreement to a study                             Completed
and replace by indirect initrueents              to remove obstacles to the developeent             on measures which would permit
of sonetary control (e.g.  andatory              of national interbank markets and                  the elimination of bank-by-bank
reserves).  Phase in resoval of                  ultimately to aim toward a 'true'                  credit ceilings.
17l TPS tax on interest paid by                  money (open) earket operating on
borrovers.                                       market-based principles.                           -Consultation on the results of                   Second Tranche
the study and agreemmnt on procedures
and timing for the introduction
of market-oriented eechanisms.
-The Government successively                      -Consultations before June 1990
reduced the TPS on interest paid to               on timing of abolition of TPS on loans.
depositors from 17l to 71 to zero.
IV. MACRO-LEVEL REFORMS (URDA)
1. Refores toward Improved
Financial Intermediation                     Measures already taken
Move toward uarket-oriented                      -Major shifts away from  ochanisms
approach to monetary management                  emphasizing governeent (and BCEAOI
in place of current system.                      leverage over lending decisions
have taken place following the
August, 1989 eeetings of the UMOA
Council of Ministers. Abolition
o  the preferential rate aud the
emphasis of the use of the money
market an important step forNard,
as is the establishment of a nev
borrowing facility of last resort
(TES). The effective widening of
interest rate margins and their
differentiation according to
eaturity also represents important
changes. A shift toward a 'true
money earket system based on
a tender-offer system for Central
Bank soney resains to be implesented.



Page 5 of 5
REFORN AREAS                                    STATUS                                            FSECAL ACTION PROGRAM                             CONDITIONS FOR
V. hACROECONOIIC STABILIZATION
1. Ensure Nacronconosic Stability
Continue to improve the ooverneent's            -Notable progress has been made                   -Ensure that the macro-economic                  Second tranche
fiscal and current account opertions.           in recent years such that the                     progras is on track to the
budget deficit vent from 8.2% of                 satisfaction of the Oank.  Judgement
6DP in 1982/83 to 1t of 6DP in                   about micro-economic perforeance
1987188.  The inflation rate                     mill be consistent mith the annual
declined sharply.                                PFP and on SAL IV, which is under
preparation, if approved.



ANNEX IV
(Unofficial English
translation of French
original)
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
LETTER OF FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dakar, November 3, 1989



ANNEX IV
P'age 1 of 21
INTRODUCTION
1.        Confronted by a crisis affecting its banking system, the seri-
ousness of which is evidenced by the accumulation of some CFAF 200 billion
in non-performing assets out of a total asset base of CFAF 450 uillion, the
Government of Senegal has put into place a plan for the restructuring and
reform of the financial sector. The motivations underlying this plan, as
well as its objectives and modalities, first outlined in a document drawn
up in October 1987 and amplified in two succeeding working memoranda, were
confirmed in the directives of an Interministerial Council held on October
26, 1988. These documents were in turn discussed in meetings with an
international donor group comprising the World Bank, France and the United
States. Reforms of monetary policy instruments and BCEAO intervention
rules undertaken within the monetary union (UMOA) complement the approach
as applied in Senegal and constitute a framework which is more likely to
ensure that the restructuring of the financial sector will be a lasting one
and that improvements sought in financial intermadiation will be achieved.
2.        The principal measures which have already been undertaken or
which remain to be implemented in order to carry out the reform program can
be sunuarized as followos
(a) rehabilitation and restructuring of the banking sector;
(b) orientations and actions of the Government with respect to the
banking sector; and
Xc) improvements in financial intermediation.
Part I: REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING OP THE BANKING SECTOR
(iM Financial rehabilitation required
3.        Generalized illiquidity and insolvency of eight of fifteen banks
and two financial establishments resulting from the large volume of non-
performing assets borne by these institutions led to increasing problems in
cash management which could not be adequately dealt with by the series of
ad hoc measures thus far applied. Thus various expedients such as Central
Bank refinancing in excess of ceilings or of uncovered overdrafts, shifting
of public doposits to weakened banks (or freezing existing deposits),
refusal of access to clearing facilities, non-payment of tax liabilities to
the Treasury, etc., did not resolve matters. Unsustainable Central Bank
penalty rates on overdrafts, taken together with the large volume of unpaid
liabilities, particularly to the Treasury, finally made it necessary to
seek a more appropriate approach to the problem.
4.        The decision taken by the BCEAO/UMOA to consolidate overdrafts
and rediscounts of unviable paper over a ten-year period on the basis of
bank workout plans represented a first step in this direction. However,
the limitation of the proposed consolidations of liabilities solely to the



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 21
Central Bank. taken together vith the high interest rate (6 Percent) and
shortness of the amortization period proposed meant that amounts to be
consolidated were too small to deal adequately with the problem and the
costs ezcessLvely high for the Government, which had accepted
responsibility for them
5.        It was thus that a deep and thoroughgoing financial rehabilita-
tion program came to be seen as necesseary.
(ii) Basic Princinles
6.        After numerous consultations with the bilateral and multilateral
donors that had indicated their interest in supporting the sectoral program
(World Bank, France and the United States) *a rehabilitation plan was drawn
up by the Senegaleoe authorities on the basis of the following principles:
--   purging bank balance sheets of bad debt (following capital
write-off), through contributions of cash or concessional
resources froa shareholders, with the Government coutributing in
proportion to its shareholdings should the need arise; failing
dhat, the assumption by the Government of bank liabilities to
third parties (BCE&O, public and private depositors) not covered
by sound assets, an approach which essentially covers banks
ovned in aajority by the Governments
-   settinea aside the financial resources necessary to carry out
thic operation while making sure that the total cost to the
Government of taking responsibility for these liabilities --
particularly vis a via the BCE&O -- remain: within liaits
sustainable by the budget;
3<- keeping alive only those financial institutions whose liquidity.
solvency and profitability can assured from the beginning
through splitting up, merger or donsizing,;
These principles are  Iplemnted bys
(a) the mobilizatioan of resources for the financing of bad
debt, either
e    through contributions by shareholders;
*    through the consolidation by the BCEAO of claims arising
frao rediscounts or overdrafts;
*    through the blocking of public deposits during the tim  it
is expected to take to recover scheduled assets or for
other resources to be released; or
*    through coucessional resources obtalnd by the Government
to meet the expenses associated wlth restructuring, to wit:
*0   in the aosumption of liabilities;



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 21
**   through capital contributions to banks, to the limit
implied by its share in their capital;
**   the capitalization of new structures (e.g., banks es-
tablished to take up the healthy portfolios of the USB
and of the public banks); and
**   the social costs associated with the restructuring.
(b) the splitting up of banks whose financial equilibrium
cannot be guaranteed, with the good assets being trans-
ferred to a new bank and the non-performing ones being
gathered into a recovery company.
(iii) Implementation
7.        Bedun several months ago, the rehabilitation of the financial
sector has taken a number of different forms includings
--   the introduction of provisional measures
=-   a scheme for a financial workout
--   restructuring of financial establishments in difficulty, namely
in the public sector
(a) Provisional Measures
The power to grant new credits wan withdrawn from banks with li-
quidity problems by denying them any increments over the credit
ceilings fixed by the National Credit Committee under the aegis of
the BCEAO. Moreover, a coordinator for the management and reor-
ganization of the public banks was appointed in October 1988 with the
role of these institutions being limited to holding operations. In
October 1989 the mandate of the coordinator was eztended to that of
receiver of the establishments in question.
(b) Financial Workout Scheme
The flnancial workout scheme was established on the basis of the fol-
lowing elements
--   For the financial institutions whose breakup is ordained (USB,
BNDS, SOPISEDIT, SONABANQUE, SONAGA, ASSURBANK), financing
requirements are set by the level of thlrd party liabillties
remaining with the liquidating structures together with the
contributions of funds to be made to the new entities taking up
the healthy portfolios remaining, against an equivalent amount
of deposits.
Remaining liabilities not taken up amount to CFAF 88 billion (BCEAO).
CFAF 51 billion (depositors) excluding refinancing of unbacked crop



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 21
credits whose repayment is provided for in the Government's financial
operations table (TOP), and CPAF 6.1 billion in debts to other
creditors whose servicing is assumed by the Government.
--  For the other banks whose balance sheets can be restructured
(BIAOS, BSK, MASSRAP), net financing requirements (possibly in
the form of long-term loans on concessional terms) are deter-
mined by capital requirements after writeoff of existing capital
against bad debts: CPAP 30 billion in total. In line with its
share in total capital the Government is contributing CFAF 8
billion.
-- The financial workout scheme was developed in such a way as to
limit the budgetary impact of the bank restructuring to about
CFA? 10 billion per year during the initial years of the scheme.
The costs in question are determined by the rates and maturities
of the BCEAO consolidation, the repayment of the non-refinance-
able element of the ONCAD claim, and the interest costs (at 8
percent) associated with temporarily blocked deposits.
-- Because of its size, the financing of the claim of the banking
system on ex-ONCAD has been included in the workout but on a
different basis. Amortization of the so-called non-refinance-
able' element (CPA? 13 billion) is scheduled for a six-year
period at a 7 percent interest rate while the Ifinanceable'
element (CPWA 64 billion) will be included in the BCEAO con-
solidation package. These dispositions will have the effect of
neutralizing the impact of this claim on the liquidity and
profitability of the banking system as a whole.
8.   The final workout financing scheme will have to be carried out
according to the following arrangement, now ongoing, which has been
accepted by the interested parties (BCEAO, donors):
--   Consolidation of outstanding Central Bank rediscounts, set at
CFPA 126.6 billion by UMOA authorities -- of which CPA? 64
billion for ONCAD -- at 3S over 15 years with three years'
grace;
--   consolidation by the banks which are already carrying the non-
refinanceable element of the ONCAD loan -- CPAP 13 billion -- at
a rate of 7 percent over six years;
--   blockage of deposit liabilities amounting to CPAP 50.7 billion,
largely of the public sector, to be remunerated at 8 percent per
annum and unblocked in line with bad debt recoveries, expected
to amount to CPA? 32 billion over five years:
--   additional installments amounting to a total of CFPA  35 billion,
to be paid by the Government over a three-year period.
9.        Financing for the different commitments undertaken under the
restructuring program is arranged as follows:



ANNEX IV
Jage 5 cf 21
service payments for claims consolidated by BCEAO and the banks,
as well as for interest rates on blocked deposits, are assumed
by the Government and inscribed in the budget (TOF), with the
total payments remaining within the above-noted limits. Follow-
ing the stipulations of the consolidation agreements, payments
will be debited from the account of the Treasury as they come
due.
-- with respect to other public charges associated with the re-
structuring program, donor support has been sought:
*    a 30-year loan, of which 10 years grace, for CFAF 11
billion has been obtained from the CCCE at a rate of 0.68
percent;
*    the United States has agreed to contribute about CFAF 10
billions
*    support from IDA is being solicited in this connection.
Counterpart funds associated with the credit would help the
Government of Senegal to meet the costs associated with the
restructuring and renewal of the banking system.
(c) Restructuring of Financial Institutions
10.       The restructuring of financial institutions must be carried out
in a way which reflects the modalities of the split-offs or rehabilitation
programs and results in a reduction of the number of Lnstitutions and the
absorption of restructured banks' bad debts into a financial establishment
charged with recoveries. The influence of the Government must be reduced
as well.
Bank rehabilitation operations
BIAOS:  the rehabilltation plan put together in 1988 was suc-
cessfully implemented. It provided for reductions in current
costs, to be obtained from a retrenchment in personnel (175
employees) and compression of the branch network (closing of
seven agencies); it also provided for the reconstitution of
capital and well as an increase therein, to be subscribed by new
shareholders. At the end of these operations the share of the
Government in the total capital of CIA? 1.1 billion was reduced
from 35 percent to 25 percent. With the bank's total capital
rising to CIA? 1.5 billion the share of the of the Government
will fall to 18,3 percent. Following an agreement with the BIAO
group in June 1988 concerning the financing of non-performing
assets, the Government contributed CIA? 500 million -- its share
of the total -- beginning in June 1989. This amount was design-
ed to make up the difference between the cost of the funds and
that of a long-term concessional loan which will be put in place
in 1989/90. The BIAO group has kept up its efforts to redress
the cash position of BIAO and will confirm lts support. The



ANNEX IV
Page 6 ot 21
Government of Senegal will renew its request to the BCEAO that
it directly refinance the BIAO claim on ex-ONCAD.
Banque Senegalo-Koweitiennes  The conclusions of the audit
report on the accounts and financial situation of the bank were
approved by the shareholders in January 1989. Provisions
necessary for the coverage of loss risks on claims in suspense
have been ascertained. A restructuring plan was worked out
which provides for a reorganization of the bank's structure and
for establishin2 methods and procedures of supervision under the
oversight of an audit firm. The financial restructuring will be
carried out through (a) an extinction of claims on one of the
shareholder groups through the attachment of its real-estate
holdings; (b) a capital increase; and (c) a grant of a line of
liquidity on concessional terms-The Government will contribute 5
percent, in line with its share in total capital. An implemen-
tation schedule has been set which provides for the contribution
of capital funds by the end of November 1989 at the latest.
Failing that, the banking license will be withdrawn.
The Haseraf Paysal al Islami Group: the  onclusions of the
second bank examination of BCEAO have been accepted and the
absorption of the bank by its holding company has been authoriz-
ed following the assumption by the Group of all losses. The
Group has indicated its intention to rehabilitate the bank,
which functions according to Islamic principles. A restructur-
ing plan has been worked outs its timetable provides for the
withdrawal of the banking license should injections of funds not
be made by the end of November.
Split-off. merger, and recovery operations
-with respect to USB, an agreement was reached with Credit
Lyonnais on May 31, 1989 which permitted the absorption of the
healthy part of the USB balance sheet by a new bank, Credit
Lyonnais Senegal. This institution, with a CPAP 2 billion
capital endowment 95 percent subscribed by Credit Lyonnais and 5
percent by the Government, began its operations on July 3, 1989,
taking over some CPAP 13 billion in deposits against CPAP 7
billion in sound assets and ClAP 6 billion in cash equivalent.
The bank is functioning with two branches and a staff of 125
persons. The USE obtained approval to lay off 155 employees and
in the process of closing eight branches.  The new instittzion
has also become a recovery company and will be expected, in the
longer term, to merge with that of the public sector.
After completion of the first phase of the assignment of the
coordinator for the public banking sector (devoted to the
evaluation of the financial situation of the different Lnstitu-
tions) the principle involving the splitting up and merger of
these banks has been accepted.



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 21
* The General Meetings of SONAGA, SONABANQUE, SOFISEDIT and
ASSURBANK decided upon the advance dissolution of their institu-
tions beginning on October 31, 1989. The decrees authorizing
their dissolution, withdrawal of banking licenses and the
nomination of receivers were issued by the Ministry of the
Economy and of Finance.
* With respect to the BNDS, two-thirds of the total staff (323
employees) will have left the bank and received their severance
payments on November 30, 1989. A decree naming a receiver under
the terms provided for in article 68 of the Banking Law will
have been taken before November 15, 1989, to go into effect
January 1, 1990. On that date the BNDS will be transformed into
a recovery company following the transfer of its sound assets to
a new bank created simultaneously.
* The second phase of the coordinator's assignment involves the
setting up of this new bank whose goal will, apart from taking
over the sound assets of the liquidated institutions, be to
pruvide banking services to small savers and to reach new
categories of clients. The capital of the new bank will be open
to private shareholders as well as to the in3urance companies
holding stock in ASSURBANK, through a stock swap. In any event,
the Government's share will not exceed 25 percent. The New Bank
will begin operations on January 1, 1990. It will limit its
operations to the management of existing sound assets or their
rollovers and to the collection of deposits until such time as
new technical/financial partners have been found.
* Non-performing assets of the public sector banks will be
merged together into the former BNDS, which will have been
transformed into a recovery company. The new institution will
also manage the deposits not assumed by the healthy institutions
until these have been paid off. It will carry the BCEAO's con-
solidations of claims where assumed by the Government according
to modalities still to be worked out with the BCEAO. Supplemen-
tary financial resources necessary to finance the other claims
will be contributed to the recovery company by the Government.
The recovery company will also undertake to recover the claims
of those institutions which it absorbed, either by private
agreement or through the court systems the former approach might
take the form of consolidations of outstanding balances, equity
loans or exchange of claims against shares. As long as ap-
propriate resources can be found, financial support may be
provided to reestablish busLnesses thought to be viable. The
staff of the recovery company will be chosen from the personnel
of the banks which it absorbed or from individuals hired on the
basis of merit. The documents bearing upon the creation of the
recovery company will be furnished to the donors. Under no cir-
cumstances will any eventual operating deficit be covered by
public funds.



ANNEX IV
rage d of 21
Part II: GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND MEAS.REs REGARDING THE BANKING
SECTOR
11.       Responsible for the regulation of the banking sector over which
it has oversight, the Government exerted substantil weight on the b%nking
system both as shareholder as well as direct and indirect borrower. In
order to support sector rehabilitation a number of policy orientations in
addition to the provision of financial resources have been adopted. These
go in the direction of supporting (a) better banking supervision; (b)
privatization; (c) measures facilitating bad debt recoveries; and (d)
downsizing of staffing levels.
(a) Regulation and Sunervision of the Bankini System
A.   Density of the Bank Network
12.        Constituted by 15 banks and 7 financial establishments, tne
banking system of Senegal may give the impression of being relatively
dense. Any evaluation of this question however, must take into account the
diversity and activities of the overall banking structure and its com-
ponents.
13.       Whatever the case, a strongly restrictive position with respect
to the licensing of new financial establishments has been taken by the
Government, and any such licenses would be subject to joint consultations
between the Government and the donors. The final goal is to arrive at a
state of self-regulation, but without freezing monopoly positions. Up to
the present the restructuring of the public sector banks now under way was
to be carried out through the merger of four banks and one banking estab-
lishment into a single establishment. Obviously a more favorable stance
toward new institutions will be taken with respect to mutualist organiza-
tions.
B.   Supervision and Working Regulations of the Banks
14.       The strengthening of supervision and the clarification of its
organization must be obtained in parallel with the setting of more strict
banking regulations. Some important decisions of principle in this
direction were taken by the UMOA authorities in June and August 1989.
(i)  Strenathenint of Suervlision
15.       On site inspectiont  the BCEAO, which is responsible for on site
inspection, has taken dispositions to reinforce its inspection services in
order to increase the frequency of bank examinations carried out at its own
initiative or in response to requests from national authorities. The
principle of a maximum spacing (of 18 months) between inspections could be
adopted.
16.       Off site inspectionst  likewise carried out by the BCEAO on the
basis of documents furnished periodically by the banks, off site
inspections will be the responsibility of a specially designated bank
inspection corps within the BCEAO. The establishment of a bank accounting



ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 21
framework and a more frequent examination of bank i.spection reports will
increase the effectiveness of bank supervision.
(ii) Organization of SuDervision
17.       With the goal of strengthening oversight of banking activity
within UMOA, the Council of Ministers of the Union decided to create a
community-wide Banking Commission in the place of the national banking
supervision comdissions.
18.       Composed of 16 members, with representation from each of the
member governments, the Commission will have jurisdiction over banking
supervision, ascertaining infractions and disposing of a consultative power
with respect to all matters concerning bank regulations and their applica-
tion. Its certified opinion will be required for all license applications
and its power to revoke such licenses will be recognized.
19.       The Commission will be appropriately endowed, particularly with
respect to a permanent secretariat and a strengthened inspection service.
Its establishment is set for October 1, 1990.
20.       It must be noted that the Governor of the BCZAO retains the
right to take, on his own initiative, restrictive action with respect to
access to the operations and rediscounts of the BCEAO, for any bank in an
irregular situation.
(iii) Workina Regulations
21.       Senegal indicates its agreement with respect to the strengthen-
ing of prudential regulations as proposed by UMOA authorities. At the same
time it signifies its adhesion to the introductLon into the banking
regulations of rules of good conduct for shareholders and directors and to
the enforcement of a common accounting framework. In any case Senegal will
adopt, in conformity with article 22 of the UMOA treaty, uniform laws and
regulations bearing upon the organization, functioning and activities of
banks and financial establishments.
C.  Government Disengagement
22.       The parastatal bankLig sector, e.g., the establishments in which
the Government holds shares (BNDS, USB, BICIS, BIAOS, B8K, BUS, BST, CNCAS,
SOPISEDIT, SONAGA, SONABANQUE) grew through an accumulation of institutions
and shares responding to diverse motives. With respect to this public
presence, substantial but dispersed and lacking coherence, and leading to
serious difficulties of several banks, an overall reorganization plan is
being implemented on the basis of the following principles:
- - Government disengagement
--   Respect for management autonomy



ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 21
(i) Government divestiture
23.       In tne spirit of the general policies applied for the reor-
ganization of the public sector banks, a reduction of public shareholdings
in the parastatal banks is to be achieved by bringing these shareholdings
to 25 percent of total capital.
24.       The process has already begun in the commercial banking sector:
the share of the Government in the capital of BIAOS has already fallen from
35 percent to 25 percent; it will fall further to 18 percent after a call
for new capital subscriptions. The modalities applied in the case of the
USB, involving the creation of a new institution under the control of
Credit Lyonnais have, by the same token, brought a reduction in Government
representation from 62 percent to 5 percent. The divestiture by the
Government of the capital of BICIS is to be begun by the end of January
1990. The minority shares held in the specialized institutions (BHS --
housing finance -- 9.09 percent, and CNCAS -- rural sector -- 28.2 percent)
retain their justification because of the role of these institutions in
supporting Government policies in the sectors in question. Nevertheless,
the direct a;xd indirect participation of the Goverrment in the capltal of
CNCAS will be brought to the 25 percent ceiling through the sale of a part
of Government-held shares, including these of the BNDS and of the USB,
before June 30, 1990.
25.       The public banking sector (in the sense of law 87-19 concerning
the parastatal sector), made up of ENDS, SOPISEDIT, and the group SONAGA-
SONABANQUE, has been profoundly transformed (cf. above).
26.       The final share of the Government in the capital of the overall
banking sector will be reduced to less than 10 percent as against more than
60 percent in 1987.
(i) Autonomy of management
27.       Besides the reduction in its shareholdings, *the Government will
abstain from lntervening in the management of the banks in such as to
guarantee to the directors, freely chosen by qualified bodies, the autonomy
of decision and the entire responsibility for their actions. (Presidential
Directive no. 2 released by the Interministerial Council of October 28,
1988 on the restructuring of the banking system). As for the Government.
it will make its choice for candidates for positions on the Boards of
Directors following criteria based upon competence, experience and in-
tegrity.
28.       In the same way, the management of the banking institutions will
be carried out in the respect of the norms of profitability and security"
(ibid.).
D.   Recourse to Bank Financing
29.       The bad practices which permitted public bodies to maintain
debit balances with banks have been abandoned; in any event these are
prohibited by the rules of public accounting.



ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 21
30.       As for the direct obligations of the Government, these are
limited to BCEAO advances which are statutorily limited to a ceiling of 20
percent of fiscal receipts. In order to limit the effects that this
borrowing right may exercise on the financing of the private sector, new,
restrictive dispositions have been fixed by UMOA authorities, inclusion of
certain loans to the private sector into the calculation of the ceiling,
and application of an interest rate close to that for ordinary credit.
31.       The desire to avoid the excesses which may have taken place to
the detriment of the quality of bank portfolios leads the Government of
Senegal to renounce, unless specifically directed by legislation:
- -   the provision of its guarantee favoring the domestic borrowings
of public or private sector enterprises, on the pain of imputa-
tion to the Government's net borrowing position (position nette
du gouvernement)t grants of bank financing to public enterprises
should be made following the usual criteria of profitability and
solvency of the borrower;
--   the imposition on banks of an obligation to participate in
financing packages put together at the initiative of public
agencies, including the financing of crop marketing credits.
The new principles underlying these financing arrangements which
imply their unwinding upon maturing (cf. A-2 below), should
permit the banks to participate in them without harm 'to their
financial equilibrium or to their profitability.' (Presidential
Directive no. 32, ibid.).
E.   Objectives and Means of Recovery
32.       The high level of frozen claims which has been ascertained
justifies both a particular effort for recovery as well as the removal of
obstacles that may hinder recovery procedures undertaken by the banks.
(i) Contribution of bad debt recoveries to sector rehabilita-
tion
33.       Bad debt recoveries enter into the workouts in providing financ-
ing totalling CIA? 32 billion for the rehabilitation of the banks .n which
the Government is lntervening. The liberation of the blocked deposits of
the public sector is dependent upon the realization of this objective.
34.       In order to achieve the CIA? 32 billion target, the following
measures are employeds
-- a survey of bad debts held by the troubled banks in such a way
as to permit their grouping by debtor in order to provide a data
base which could be used for cross checking against other
sources (BCEAO Risk Center, arrears of the Treasury and of
social bodies, etc.) This survey, wthich respects banking con-
fidentiality, has been transferred to an agency for putting on
computer file. The corresponding outstandLng loans will be



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 21
taken up by the Central Bank Risk Center under the names of the
debtors, whether physical or moral persons, engaged directly or
indirectly as guarantors or principal associates.
__ periodic survey of the efforts used for the recovery of claims
(through legal means, direct settlements, etc.) by a Blue Ribbon
committee attached to the Minister of Economy and Finance, to
whom it will make quarterly reports of its observations and of
the results obtained. The reports will be communicated to the
donors. This supervision will apply to the recovery companies
as well as to the banks undergoing restructuring.
(ii) Free access of the banks to legal recourse
35.       Studies undertaken with the banks as well as findings made by a
consultant have not indicated the need for profound changes in current
legal dispositions as a means for ensuring the recovery of claims in
suspense. However, all measures which might be necessary to this end--
particularly in view of the conclusions of the Blue Ribbon committee --
will be taken into consideration in order to stimulate the necessary
reforms.
36.       In conformlty with the recoumendations of the evaluation of
recovery procedures just carried out, the Government will undertake to work
together with the Professional Bankers' Association in order to summrize
model agreements entered into with borrowers and to eliminate elements of
imprecision that delay procedures (clauses bearing upon periodicity of
accounts, imputation of interest, etc.).
37.       With respect to the Government, it reaffirms 'its neutrality
with respect to borrowers from banks ... which have complete latitude in
pressing on with recoveries, whatever the rank and status of the bor-
rowers.' (Presidential directive no. 23)
F.   Social Measures in Support of Bank Personnel
38.       After the restructuring of their accounts and portfolios, the
financial situation of the banks in difficulty -- and even more the
weakness of their real base of activity -- requires that their costs be
reduced to the very limits of their operating conditions. To this end, a
major downsizing of staffing levels has been undertaken: for the USB, 165
out of a total of 330 employees were taken on by Credit Lyonnais Senegal or
kept by USBg in the public sector, 185 out of 545 employees will keep their
jobs after restructuring. Taking account of measures already taken by
BIAOS, the total cutback in jobs affected some 650 employees in the sector.
39.       In order to soften the impact of job losses associated with bank
restructuring, the following measures are planneds
--   to grant, to those affected by the restructuring, severance
payments which are in excess of legally fized amounts; and



ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 21
--   easing their reemployment through the intervention of a spe-
cialized agency and through a facility providing for special
access to concessional credits from the Reemployment Commission
(Delegation a l'Insertion, a la Reinsertion et a l'Emploi).
40.       These social costs nave been taken into account in the financing
scheme as it applies to the banks under the control of the Government.
France has agreed to contribute an amount of CFAP 1 050 million in November
1989 under the 1989/90 structural adjustment loan of ClAP 11 250 million.
PART III: IMPROVEMENTS IN FINANCIAL INTERMEDTATION
41.       To obtain not only a more certain supply of credit but an
improvement in its allocation and to strengthen resource mobilization by
financial institutions are objectives which are being sought in order to
improve the functioning of the banking sector, and beyond that, the
financing of the economy.
A.   The Supply of Credit
Ci) Monetarv oolicyv management autonomv and bank profitabilitv
42.       over the passage of time, certain monetary policy instruments
(or use thereof) have either favored or at least eccompanied the supply of
bank credits which were poorly justified in economic terms, thereby also
weakening the financial equilibrium of the banks called upon to make the
loans.
43.       However, the general framework of monetary policy is integrated
with that of the UMOA, and follows common rules and objectives which con-
stitute a constraint which is the counterpart of the zone-wide monetary
solidarity that works to Senegal's advantage in particular.
44.       It is precisely for this reason that a thoroughgoing review of
the tools and policy orientations was launched at the lnitiative of the
BCEAO, working in common with other institutions and donors. The review
pointed up a number of shortcomLngs and weaknesses of the present mechan-
ism, attested to by the serious dlfficulties of numerous banks as well as
by excessive refinancing by the Central Bank.
45.       Mid-course corrections or more profound reforms were brought to
bear on the principal polnts of application of monetary policya
quantitative credlt controls, sectoral allocations and interest rates.
(a) Luantitative credit controls
46.       The restriction on the supply of credit through individual
credit ceilings, instituted in 1980 to stem the deterioration of the
ezternal position, is applied individually to each financial establishment.
The effects of this mechanism on the banks must be seen in relative terms
considering that:



ANNEX IV
Page i4 of 21
-    from a global perspective, outcomes were sometimes lower than
the ceilings fixed for the year (exclugive of crop credits
reclassified as normal credits, as in 1988);
__   the principles applied in the fixing of individual ceilings,
which take account of the banks' cash positions as well as
prior-year outcomes. No allocations are made to the detriment
of non-performing banks, but on the contrary the system is
structured to work in favor of the banks which are capable of
financing healthy credits;
--   the inclusion, in the amounts which banks are permitted to lend
each year, of foreign resources which might be effectively
mobilized, particularly for social housing, agriculture, in-
dustrial restructuring and reemployment.
47.       Working within the framework of monetary policy reforms    -ched
within the UMOA structure, Senegal will support necessary changes  ,  he
credit ceiling system in order to guarantee the competitive character of
bavking activity before a system of reserve requirements can be put in
place.
(b) Sectoral Allocation of Credit
48,       Usually justified on the grounds of scarce flnancial resources,
sectoral credit policy is based on the idea of a responsible participation
by the banks (at their risk) in the sectoral priorities fixed by the
Government rather than being ruled exclusively by considerations of profit
or the solvency of the borrower.
49.       Applied on very empirical bases in the form of global sector
objectives trather than by individual establishment) this policy never
permitted the attainment of the objectives which were sought, namely that
nearly 70 percent of all crediti be made for priority ends.
50.       Under present circumstances the sectoral allocation policy no
longer constitutes a constraint on banks' use of funds. In its session of
February 9, 1989 the National Credit Committee formalized the abandonment
of this policy and recommendd the search for incentive measures favoring
priority activities which would be neutral with respect of the autonomy of
the banks. Such measures may be established once dispositions are taken at
the UMOA level which go in the same direction.
(c) The Prior Authorization Procedure
51.       This policy, which no longer has a raison d'etre as an instru-
ment of sectoral credit policy, will continue to be applied as an instru-
ment of control of the quality of paper against which Central Bank redis-
counts are provided. In this spirit, a proposal will be made to the
National Credit Committee before the end of December 1989 tot
--   raise substantially the current threshold of ClAP 70 million (to
an amount permitting coverage of 50 percent of the number of



ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 21
beneficiaries and 50 percent of total amounts of lending might
be studied); and
__   set a turnaround time as well as establish a standard request
format.
(d) Interest Rates and Bank Marains
52.       Interest rate levels, set within the framework of UMOA, will
henceforth in large measure be set as a function the evolution of the cost
of money on foreign markets. The Central Bank rates serve as a point of
reference for the banks and are regulated for credits as well as for
deposits:
* for credits, the reference rate is given by the discount rate
plus a maximum of 5 percentage points;
* deposit rates are already free, with minimum rates being
fixed for deposits above CIA? 500 million.
ge) Taxation of Lendina Rates
53.       The reduction of the TPS as applied to lending rates will be
studied.
(Li) Crop Credlt Financina
54.       Although the Government is no longer directly involved as
guarantor of crop credits, at least part of the cost burden from unwound
deficits devolves upon it through the exercise of the groundnut guarantee
fund or through the stabilization fund for other crops. From this view-
point, directives drafted in September 1988 and confirmed in August 1989 by
the UHOA authorities aim at the elimination of commercial and Central Bank
financing of such deficits.
55.       The general principle will be include crop credits under normal
lending and Central Bank refinancing ceilings. This would implys
* that crop credlts would be included in the global credit
ceiling which would likewise lnclude advances to the Treasury;
* that crop credits will also be subject to the same conditions
prevailing for other credits and wLil be subject to a reference
rate equal to the BCEAO discount rate plus a maximum of 5
percentage points. Following the recommendations of studies on
crop production and marketing activities, the Goversment is
hoping that an interest subsidy fund can be set up in support of
these activltiess
* if the credit is refinanced by the Central Bank, the money
market rate will apply for all such operations;



ANNEX IV
Page 1-6 of 21
* the portion of the crop credit subject to Central Bank
refinancing will be limited to 90 percent of the primary credit,
which will require that the commercial banks carry 10 percent of
such credits;
* in order to avoid both Central Bank financing of marketing
deficits for specific crops as well as the failure to unwind or
otherwise abuse such credits, crop credits musts
**   be integrated into a global financing scheme which
indicates how equilibrium in the financing of collec-
tion and marketing activities is to be achieved or
provides for the coverage of any such deficits by
means other than bank credits. What is aimed at is an
equilibrium brought about through changes in producer
prices or the mobilitation of internal or external
resources; and
*   be authorized by the National Credit Committee and
receive the agreement of the Board of Directors of the
BCEAO to whom the financing scheme is submitted.
(iii)     Access to Credit
56.       This question arises for certain categories of borrowers or of
Central Bank fnancing.
(a) Investment Financina
57.       Investment financing by banks encounters the problem of scarcity
of their long-term deposits and the weakness of their cash positions, which
do not permit a major degree of term-transformation.
58.       The mobilization and terms of a line of external credit from the
World Bank (apex credit) represent an important change in this respect in
that the apex credit permits banks to grant long-tenm credits (at their
risk) destined to finance industrial modernization at a favorable rate of
9.5 percent without deviating in any exaggerated way from market condi-
tlons. In the same spirit, three banks have signed framework agreements
with the CCCE for the refinancing, at 5 percent, for medium and long term
loans.
59.       Apart from the contribution of financial resources, such financ-
ing packages, in implying that the banks are in sound condition, also
provide a certain assurance as to the appropriateness of the projects being
financed and at the sam_ time reduce the risks to the Treasury in case of
non repayment. Analogous terms have been retained for reemployment
financing under more concessional terms.
(b)  Financina of Particular Activities and Lending Cateoories
Aaricultures the interventions of the CNCAS financed by lts own
(deposit) resources remain limited by CNCAS' cautiousness while needs



ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 21
are great (and risks high). In order to assess the possibility of a
greater diffusion of credit in the rural areas, a study (provided for
under SAL III) was undertaken with CCCE financing. Its terms of
reference included both a comparison of agricultural credit programs
set up under different auspices (agricultural extension firms, NGOs,
etc.) as well as a definition of an action plan in respect of savings
and credit. Its recommendations also aimed at the privatization of
CNCAS the long-term evolution of its network into a mutualist system.
These policy orientations will be incorporated into specific terms of
reference.
Fishina: the creation of a mutual guarantee scheme, which has been
studied with the support of the CCCE, seems to be feasible, but
within a broader framework.
Housina: BHS financing is adapted to its needs but can no longer
remain within the limits of deposit resources collected (apart from
BCEA0 financing) for mortgage financing. The measures envisaged in
favor of savings will contribute to a desirable expansion of resour-
ces to finance a major demand.
SME9sSMIst the limits of financial support mechanisms utilizing
public funds (interest rate subsidies, guarantee funds) necessitate
the intervention of the comercial banks under their own respon-
sibility but with the benefit of margins adapted to risk and monitor-
ing procedures required for this type of loan. Modifications in
regulations bearing on this point will be supported. Onlending of
external lines of credit mobilized for the support of vocational
reemployment has already been effected with a margin of eight per-
centage points for those banks that absorb the risk.
(c) Cost and Quality of Services
60.       The bank restructuring program should permit an improvement in
the quality and price of banking services. In this spirit, and in order to
support competition, the interbank schedule of prices for banking services
might be abolished.
B.   Savings Mobilization
61.       An ongoing objective, the strengthening of savings mobilization
has inspired a set of dispositions aiming at improving remuneration of
savings, broadening the deposit network and encouraging new financial
instruments. However, the management of modest deposit liabilities
requires special measures.
(a) Remuneration of Deposits
62.       Ratess  The regular increases in central UMOA rates have brought
about the disappearance in the negative differential with external rates.
it being necessary to remember that rates paid on large deposits are not
limited by regulation. The ceiling on savings accounts (quasi-money) has
been raised from CFIA 3 million to CFIA 6 million.



ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 21
63.       Fiscal measuress  The service tax (TPS) on deposit rates,
already lowered from 17 percent to 7 percent, has just been abolished;
similarly, banks are generally exonerated from this tax for any increase in
working resources constituted through borrowing. The fiscal statute
bearing upon financial investments subject to specific taxation (IRCM or
IRVM) and to general income taxes (IGR) will be reexamined.
(b) Network for Small Devosits and their Manaiement
64.       Bank restructuring may bring about a decline in the general
mistrust vis-a-vis deposit accounts and the progressive implantation of the
CNCAS could help bring bank services closer to those elements of the
population hitherto untouched by the banking system.
63.       On the other hand bank disaffection toward small depositors is
growing, since the management of small accounts appears to be scarcely
profitable if not costly.
66.       The National Savings Fund and the (associated) postal checking
system, in the process of being reorganized, could without doubt play a
heightened role in this sector, traditionally their province. But the
creation of a more denre network closer to the population in question would
seem necessary to respond to theig needs, and the coordinator for the
reform of the public banking sector has been requested to study the
conditions under which such a system could be created in such a way as to
be viabl;. and his expert-assistants have begun the preliminary work.
Their investigations should be extended to seeking ways in which the modern
financial sector could bridge the gap with the informal sector.
67.       More generally, the authorities are in agreement with the
establishment of mutualist savings and credit structures. Initiatives
already undertaken on this score under the aegis of the Credit mutuel of
France, USAID, women's associations, etc., are still in the stage of
experimentation, which places them outside of the financial sector and its
regulations (N00 statute). The position taken with respect to these
experiments is tot
--   follow the activities being carried out (Ministry of the Economy
and of Finance, Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry of
Social Development), without exercising formal oversight but
seeking to avoid excesses of a kind which could weaken their
credibility or do damage to the public interest;
--   seek to appraise their resultss and
--   take appropriate masuras to peamit their development in a
framework which is adapted to the means and the role of those
institutions vhich cannot be asigned to existing categories and
which are called upon to serv.ce those strata of the population
remaining outride the classical banking system. In this respect
a federative system attached to a given financial institution
might be envisaged, following the proposals made by the BCEAO.



ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 21
Special technical assistance to the Ministry of the Economy and
of Finance could be required to work out the details on such an
organiRation, which appears to be the kind required to strength-
en dep~ ut mobilization and access to credit, as numerous
experiences elsewhere have shown.
(c) Diversification of Savings Instruments
63.       Some initiatives have been taken by commercial banks to diver-
sify financial investment opportunities offered to the public, particularly
through savings/credit schemes or through instruments which offer greater
availability and confidentiality. In such cases banking and tax regula-
tions and could be consequently modified within the limits required to
support small savings.
69.       The commitment to the program of privatization of public sector
banks has likewise led to the examination of the possibility of investments
in stocks and bonds. A study is to be undertaken under the aegis of the
Commisuion for Reform of the Parastatal Sector in order to determine the
size of a potential issue and subscription of stocks or bonds, as well as
the assets required to set up an investment fund. The conditions for the
creation of a trading corporation dealing with these securities must be
identified, as must the role which the banks would be called upon to play
in these operations.



ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 21
Dakar, November 14, 1989
Ministry of the Economy and of Finance
PLAN OP ACTION FOR THE BANKING SECTOR
I.   BANK RESTRUCTURING
BIlAOS
-    Signing of Protocol                            JUNE       1988 A
-    Presentation of Final Arrangement              DECEMBER  1989
BSK
-    Presentation of Rehabilitation Plan            MARCH      1989 A
Presentation of Final Arrangement              NOVEMBER  1989
HASSRA
-    Presentation of Rehabilitation Plan            JUNE       1989 A
-    Presentation of Final Arrangement              NOVEMBER  1989
USB
-    Signing of Protocol with Credit Lyonnais       HAI        1989 A
-    Opening of Credit Lyonnais Senegal             JULY 3    1989 A
-    Transformation into a Recovery Company         JULY       1989 A
PUBLIC SECTOR
-    Naming of a Coordinator                        DECEMBER  1988 A
-    Naming of a Receiver                           AUGUST    1989 A
-    Agreement on Project for Establishment of
a New Bank and Recovery Company              NOVEMBER  1989
-    Establishment of New Bank                      DECEMBER  1989
-    Establishment of Recovery Company              DECEMBER  1989
MUTUAL CREDIT SECTOR
-    Setting up of Technical Assistance Project   JANUARY   1990
-    Institutional Studies
*    Launching                                 JANUARY   1990
*    Action Plan                               JUNE      1990



ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 21
II.  GOVERNMENT DISENGAGEMENT
-    BICS                                           JUNE       1990
-    Sale of CNCAS shares                           JUNE       1990
III. BAD DEBT RECOVERY
-    Survey of Claims                               NOVEMBER  1989 A
-    Monitoring Procedures in Place                 NOVEMBER  1989 A
-    Recovery Targets
(CFAF billion)
*         4.0                                  DECEMBER  1989
*         9.8                                  JUNE      1990
*         14.5                                 DECEMBER  199C
*          .19.2                               JUNE      1991
*         23.4                                 DECEMBER  1991
IV.  FINANCIAL POLICY MEASURES
-    Formalization of the Abolition of Govern-
ment Guarantees on Domestic Borrowing        AUGUST    1989 A
-    Relazatlon of Credit Ceiling System:
Consultations (BCEAO, Donors)                JUNE      1990
-    Changes in Prior Authorization Regime          DECEMBER  1989
-    Abandonment of Targeted Credit                 FEBRUARY  1989 A
-    Consultations on Abandonment of Banking
Services Cost Scale                          JUNE      1990



ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 21
Special technical assistance to the Ministry of the Economy and
of Finance could be required to work out the details on such an
organization, which appears to be the kind required to strength-
en deposit mobilization and access to credit, as numerous
experiences elsewhere have shown.
(c)  Diversification of Savings Instruments
68.       Some initiatives have been taken by commercial banks to diver-
sify financial investment opportunities offered to the public, particularly
through savings/credit schemes or through instruments which offer greater
availability and confidentiality. In such cases banking and tax regula-
tions and could be consequently modified within the limits required to
support small savings.
69.       The commitment to the program of privatization .' public sector
banks has likewise led to the examination of the possibility of investments
in stocks and bonds. A study is to be undertaken under the aegis of the
Coumiscion for Reform of the Parastatal Sector in order to determine the
size of a potential issue and subscription of stocks or bonds, as well as
the assets required to set up an investment fund. The conditions for the
creation of a trading corporation dealing with these securities must be
identified, as must the role which the banks would be called upon to play
in these operations.



ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 21
Dakar, November 14, 1989
Ministry of the Economy and of Finance
PLAN OF ACTION FOR THE BANKING SECTOR
I.   BANK RESTRUCTURING
BlAOS
-    Signing of Protocol                             JUNE       1988 A
-    Presentation of Final Arrangement               DECEMBER  1989
BSK
-    Presentation of Rehabilitation Plan             MARCH      1989 A
-    Presentation of Final Arrangement               NOVEMBER  1989
MASSRAF
-    Presentation of Rehabilitation Plan             JUNE       1989 A
-    Presentation of Final Arrangement               NOVEMBER  1989
USB
-    Signing of Protocol with Credit Lyonnais        MAI        1989 A
-    Opening of Credit Lyonna.s Senegal              JULY 3    1989 A
-    Transformation into a Recovery Company          JULY       1989 A
PUBLIC SECTOR
-    Naming of a Coordinator                         DECEMBER  1988 A
-    Naming of a Receiver                            AUGUST    1989 A
-    Agreement on Project for Establishment of
a New Bank and Recovery Company               NOVEMBER  1989
-    Establishment of New Bank                       DECEMBER  1989
-    Establishmeut of Recovery Company               DECEMBER  1989
MUTUAL CREDIT SECTOR
-    Setting up of Technical Assistance Project   JANUARY   1990
-    Institutional Studies
*    Launching                                  JANUARY   1990
*    Action Plan                                JUNE       1990



ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 21
II.  GOVE1WNENT DISENGAGEMELf
BICIS                                           JUNE       1990
Sale of CNCAS shares                            JUNE       1990
III. BAD DEBT RECOVERY
Survey of Claims                                NOVEMBER  1989 A
Monitoring Procedures in Place                  NOVEMBER  1989 A
Recovery Targets
(CFAF billion)
*         4.0                                   DECEMBER  1989
*         9.8                                   JUNE       1990
*         14.5                                  DECEMBER  1990
*         19.2                                  JUNE       1991
*         23.4                                  DECEMBER  1991
IV.  FINANCIAL POLICY MEASURES
-    Formalization of the Abolition of Goverm-
ment Guarantees on Domestic Borrowing         AUGUST    1989 A
-    Relaxation of Credit Ceiling Systems
Consultations (BCEAO, Donors)                 JUNE       1990
-    Changes in Prior Authorization Regime           DECEHBER  1989
-    Abandonment of Targeted Credit                  FEBRUARY  1989 A
-    Consultations on Abandonment of Banking
Services Cost Scale                           JUNE       1990



BIRD 18499R
.                                                   i          i6                          MA   A   U   R   I  T   A    N 01I   E                                           Sahara -   (e ar)cw§rr.d  r      Agen A 
,/       +   ~~~N .. ~h I,                                                                                                                          AJ ,  6(...e
koso                                                                                __,._                        Mauritaonia    i
Mali   f      Niger
SENEGAl                                                                                                                               ""',  ,.. '    u       SENEGA\N "
RAPPORT  ECONOMIQUE                                                                                                                                                        GBtt,ulne-                       / 1-
N                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Guiride  5 -
I             ~~~~~~Nigeria  '
A'-1   vJ>                                                   /'                                                                              < d + 16- tSlerra Leona i,  C6e i
A                    a~~~~~ Mane~~~~  ('Cdivore (Ghan, o-4  -     /-
I 00$        lA                         .           - -\                                                                                LiberiaL        'IBenine
Cr         <7                                                            ~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toga  'Cameroun
OENSITE DE LA POPLLATION (i, km21                                                     I 8 )     00. o                                                                                                 Gulnc bEc
/ irl   20          X /    4        °                                          1|°¢     ,ki                             Ou--  CrossogM,/                                  12'-
20 5                 Tbougoou'                          N                           -                                                                                                                            /
Mbyck N      010               abo-To.Sr.e-'    V?t        9pm  _o~                           /Nm                                                ')/,j*r                Sel.boby    )                      I.
D5ou 20:v                                                                          /                5 t                          Nao
=ROUTES EN LATEHITE              -O F                       P'n,Trok4   /     Moan hoo 0baro, * 
|ai =     LiENSEF CONSvI0UCTINco(E/G                                                                                                                                        LastX
LiMiTES REGiIONALES                              G  KrN  AKO(9 E-6n N?~X<...X.{
-@ FRONTiEOES iNTEONATiONALES        r          G        A                            .     E                                   .,sso            ,.. 
e  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soeS.mgo                                                  b
t~~~~~..                  - ty pt     ,        1   RN C LWro8 k                                             t       NoOOf          nooKb 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~
K.y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
0  VO 20 30 40 S0 oR 70 eo a0 roo 9 ,./                               SedoctSoy(5ndin(    Sndlann                 Ouqodao0        S      .                             W-V>1s,.    7
NgoK                                 (G-.- N  ri     Cod/r-ri               '                                                                              Saidmoto
Cap Skrrr                                               GUI  NE   E -  B             S       A U
a      i,.~                                                                                                                 K.d14,_. J   \   G    U   I   N    E  NE  ,.   (FEVR  1E87



