Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2077 SE
               (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 18, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2077 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  18,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
November  3,  1989  from  the  Borrower  describing  a  program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of
the Borrower's financial sector  (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and requesting  assistance  from  the  Association in the
financing  of  urgently   needed   imports  required  during  such
execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia,  of the foregoing the Associa-
tion has  decided  in  support  of  the  Program  to  provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as
hereinafter provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Development Credit
     Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Association,  the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Association  a  report,  of  such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "CFAF"  and  "CFA  Francs"  mean  the  currency  of  the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "APB" means Association  Professionnelle  des Banques et
Etablissements Financiers du Sånågal, the professional association
of bankers in Senegal;
     (e)  "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale  des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest, the Central Bank of the Borrower;
     (f)  "BIAOS"  means  Banque   Internationale  pour  l'Afrique
Occidentale-Sånågal;
     (g)  "BSK" means Banque Sånågalo-Koweitienne;
     (h)  "MASSRAF" means Fayéal Al Islami-Senegal; and
     (i)  "PPF" means the  project  preparation advance granted by
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters
dated February 24, 1989  and  April  21, 1989 between the Borrower
and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to thirty five  million  three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 35,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1  to  this  Agreement  provided,  however, that promptly
after the Effective Date, the  Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account  and pay to itself the
amount required  to  repay  the  principal  amount  of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding  as of such date and
to pay all unpaid charges  thereon  the unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized  amount  of  the   Project  Preparation  Advance  shall
thereupon be cancelled.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  CFA  Francs  a  special  account in BCEAO on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  February  1 and August 1
commencing February  1,  2000  and  ending  August  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on August 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Page  4
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time  to time provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a)  BCEAO  is  designated as representative of
the Borrower for the  purposes  of  taking  any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts  BCEAO  with  responsibility for the pre-
paration of withdrawal applications  under  the Credit and for the
collection of the documents and  other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support  of  such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for  withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts  of not less than
CFAF 300,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
Page  5
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister  of  the  Borrower responsible for economy
and finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
     For the Borrower:
          Minist®re de l'Economie et des Finances
          Rue Charles Lainå
          B.P. 4017
          Dakar, Senegal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFINANCES                     3203SG
                Dakar, Senegal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                   By /s/ Ibra Deguene Ka
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
     112          -                     Alcoholic beverages
Page  7
     121          -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
     122          -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
     525          -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
     667          -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
     718          718.7                 Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts  thereof,  fuel ele-
                                        ments  (cartridges),  non-
                                        irradiated   for   nuclear
                                        reactors
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
     897         897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
     971            -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the  territory  of the Borrower, excluding, if
the currency of  the  Borrower  is  also  that of another country,
expenditures in such currency  for  goods supplied from the terri-
tory of such other country;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  7,000,000  may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
the date falling four months before the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption;
     (g)  expenditures  in  excess  of  an  amount  equivalent  to
SDR 7,900,000, for petroleum  products  and  to SDR 7,900,000, for
foodstuffs; and
     (h)  expenditures for goods imported  under contracts for the
supply of commodities  if  such  contract  were  awarded by direct
contracting without competition.
3.   Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procure-
ment of  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of less than
$500,000 may be permitted  by  the  Association  upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under  such  terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.
4.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
Page  8
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and  the  total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the  equivalent  of  SDR 21,200,000, unless the
Association shall be  satisfied,  after  an  exchange  of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out  of the Program; and (b) that the
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 4
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
     (a)  by purchasers required  to  follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation  of goods, on the basis
of such procedures, provided that  such procedures shall have been
Page  9
found acceptable by the Association;
     (b)  by  other  purchasers,  in  accordance  with established
commercial practice,  provided  that,  to  the extent practicable,
such contracts shall be  awarded  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two
countries, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to
the Association may  be  used  where  considered appropriate under
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
     (c)  by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities, on the
basis of evaluation  and  comparison  of  quotations obtained from
more than one supplier.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information  as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association  pursuant  to  the   provisions   of  paragraph  3  or
paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be
furnished to the  Association  as  part  of  the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provision of the  preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The  Borrower  has  reviewed,  in  consultation  with  BCEAO,
the  methods,  procedures  and,  if  warranted,  an implementation
timetable satisfactory to the  Association  for the replacement of
bank-by-bank credit ceilings by market-oriented mechanisms.
2.   The  performance  of  the   revised  system  of  crop  credit
financing and  of  prior  authorizations  for  borrowings has been
reviewed  in  consultation  with  the  BCEAO  and  APB.  Measures,
satisfactory to the Association, have been proposed to correct any
deficiency or difficulty revealed by such review.
3.   The financial restructuring  of  BSK,  MASSRAF  and BIAOS has
been completed.
4.   A program of  actions  to  facilitate  the establishment of a
network of grass-roots banks has been prepared and is satisfactory
to the Association.
5.   The level of bad debt  recovery  set forth in the Program has
been reached.
Page  10
6.   The Borrower is current in the payment of all its liabilities
incurred in the financial sector restructuring.
7.   The Borrower has taken all necessary measures satisfactory to
the Association to  bring  the  total  of  its direct and indirect
ownership  to  not  more  than  25%  in  each  bank  and financial
institution.
8.   The macro-economic policy framework  of  the Borrower is con-
sistent with the objectives of the Program.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of  goods required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equi-
valent to  CFAF  1,000,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special  Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
               shall have requested and  as  shall have been shown
               by said documents and  other  evidence to have been
               paid  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
Page  11
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
