                                            CONFORMED COPY



                                         LOAN NUMBER 8006-RO




     Loan Agreement
      (Second Development Policy Loan)


                  between


                ROMANIA


                    and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




           Dated February 2, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated February 2, 2011, entered into between ROMANIA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE II - LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Euro (EUR
        300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%), of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.
2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Rate; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all
                or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                             ARTICLE III - PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and
        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                    ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

                ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

        The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is Ministry of Public Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:


                Ministry of Public Finance
                17, Apolodor Street
                Bucharest
                Romania

                                        Telex:                  Facsimile:

                                        11239                   4021 312 6792
6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                    Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or            1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)

        AGREED at Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.



                                 ROMANIA



                                 By /s/ Gheorghe Ialomitianu
                                                        Authorized Representative



                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                 By /s/ Francois Rantrua
                                                           Authorized Representative
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                   Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

        The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

1.      The Government has submitted MTEF 2010-2012 to the European Commission
        through the Convergence Program 2009-2010, including fiscal risks analysis and
        has incorporated provisions on MTEF into the Law No. 69/2010 on Fiscal
        Responsibility including the binding aggregate expenditure limits.

2.      The Borrower has enacted Law No. 330/2009 on the Unitary Pay that sets out the
        principles and timetable for the introduction of subsidiary legislation for a
        reformed pay system.

3.      The Borrower has: (i) enacted Law No. 4/2010 regarding the approval of the
        Emergency Ordinance 57/2009 for the modification of Law No. 416/2001 on
        GMI, and (ii) submitted to the Parliament amendments to the Law No. 416/2001
        on GMI in order to transfer the program budget to the Ministry of Labor, Family
        and Social Protection and transfer the benefits payments attributions from local
        governments to the NASB while keeping the entitlement and recertification
        attributions with the local governments.

4.      The Government has: (i) submitted to the Parliament the draft law regulating the
        income-tested family allowances that reduce the maximum eligibility threshold
        from 470 RON per month per person to 370 RON and offers higher benefits to
        households earning below 200 RON per month and to single-parent families; and
        (ii) maintained the nominal value of the universal child allowance benefit in 2010
        at the same level as in 2009 as stipulated in the Governmental Decision No.
        1662/2008.

5.      The Borrower has enacted Law No. 263/2010 on public pensions unitary system
        which gradually links pension benefits adjustments to inflation, maintains the
        existing wage valorization and increases retirement age for women in a manner
        satisfactory to the Bank.

6.      The Borrower has: (i) enacted Law No. 169/2010 amending the Insolvency Law
        No. 87/2006; (ii) published, through MoPF and NBR, the Mortgage Debt
        Restructuring Guidelines as issued by the MoPF; and (iii) issued and published,
        through MoPF, MoJ and NBR, the Corporate Debt Restructuring Guidelines.

7.      NBR has adopted the following two internal Regulations governing decision
        making process and methods for Basel II implementation: (i) Regulation on the
        organization of the validation process of internal models within NBR, through
        NBR Note II/6105/28.06.2010, and (ii) Regulation on the internal capital
        adequacy assessment process of credit institutions reviewed by NBR, through
        NBR Note IV/10639/01.07.2010.

Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawal of the Loan proceeds.
        The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                   Allocations                    Amount of the Loan Tranche
                                                          Allocated
                                                     (expressed in Euro)

         Single Withdrawal Tranche                         300,000,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                      300,000,000

C.      Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
        Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
        is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower, and (b) with
        the appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

E.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.      the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
                into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
                and

        2.      the Borrower shall ensure that upon the deposit of the amount of the
                Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                    SCHEDULE 2

                                Amortization Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on September 1, 2022.
                                    APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “EO” means the Borrower’s Emergency Ordinance.

2.     “EC” means the European Commission.

3.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                              manufactured, tobacco
                                                              refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                              (whether or not containing
                                                              tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                              semiprecious stones,
                                                              unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-
                                                              irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                              machinery
                         897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                           platinum group metals
                                                           (except watches and watch
                                                           cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                           silversmiths’ wares
                                                           (including set gems)
                      971                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                           (excluding gold ores and
                                                           concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
            agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
            (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
            satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

4.   “Convergence Program 2009-2010” means the Borrower’s document prepared in
     accordance with the provisions of the Council Regulation (EC) No. 1055/2005
     dated June 27, 2005 amending Regulation (EC) No. 1466/97 on the strengthening
     of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination
     of economic policies.

5.   “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

6.   “GMI” means Guaranteed Minimum Income.

7.   “Law No. 69/2010 on Fiscal Responsibility” means the Law No. 69 dated April
     16, 2010, published in the Official Gazette No. 252 dated April 20, 2010.

8.   “MoJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice or any successor thereto.

9.   “MoPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance or any successor
     thereto.
10.    “MTEF” means Medium Term Expenditure Framework as defined in Law No.
       69/2010 on Fiscal Responsibility.

11.    “NASB” means the Borrower’s National Agency for Social Benefits or any
       successor thereto.

12.    “NBR” means the National Bank of Romania.

13.    “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
       promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
       referred to in the letter dated September 22, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank
       declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
       requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
       execution.

14.    “RON” means the currency of the Borrower.

15.    “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

       The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:

               “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
            …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
            shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:


     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support of which the Loan is made.”
