Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20722-BUR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.5 MILLION
(US$ 66.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO BURKINA FASO
FOR THE
COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR DECENTRALIZED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
October 31, 2000
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
650 CFAF = US$
US$ 0.0015 = 1 CAFF
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CAS            Comite d'Action Spdcifique (Special Action Committee)
CBRDP          Community-Based Rural Development Project (PNGT2)
CCTP           Cadre de concertation technique provincial (Provincial Technical Coordination Committee)
CFAF           Franc de la Comm unaute Financiere Africaine (West African Franc)
CVGT           Commission Villageoise de Gestion de Terroir (Village Land Management Committee)
CIVGT          Commission Inter- Villageoise de Gestion de Terroir (Inter-Village Land Management Committee)
CND            Commission Nationale de la Decentralisation (National Commission on Decentralization)
DOS            Document d'Orientation Strategique (Sector Strategy for Agriculture)
DGCL           Direction Generale des Collectivites Locales (Department for Local Governments)
DREP           Direction Regionale d'Economie et de Prospection (Regional Of fice of the Ministry of Economy and Finance)
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EO             Equipe Opdrationnelle (Operational Team)
EU             European Union
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
GOBF           Government of Burkina Faso
IDA            International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
INERA          Institut National de l'Environnement et des Recherches Agricoles (National Institute of Environmental and Agricultural
Research)
LIF            Local Investment Fund
LPDRD          Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise (Policy Letter for Decentralized Rural Development)
MAT            Ministere de l'Administration Territoriale (Ministry of Land Management)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NRM            Natural Resource Management
PAGIS          Plan d'Action pour la Gestion el Investissement du Sol (National Soil Fertility Action Plan)
PANALCD        Plan d'Action National pour la Lutte Contre la Desertification (National Action Plan for the Fight Against
Desertification)
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit (Coordination Nationale du Projet)
PNGT          Progranime National de Gestion des Terroirs
PNDRD          Programme National de Developpement Rural Decentralise (National Program for Decentralized Rural
Development)
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSO            Plan Strategique Operationnel (Operational Strategy for Agricultural Sector)
TOD            Textes d'Orientation sur la Decentralisation (Decentralization Laws)
UGO            Unite de Gestion Operationnelle (National Project Coordination Unit)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President:           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:           Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:            Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Jane C. Hopkins/Emmanuel Nikiema



BURKINA FASO
COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROGRAM  PURPOSE AND  PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .....................                                           .............................. 1
1. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROGRAM PHASING ........................................................................I
2. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .......................................................................                               2
3. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .......................................................................                                  2
B. STRATEGIC  CONTEXT  ....................................................................... 2
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ...................... 2
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ..........................                        ............................................. 3
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES .......................                       ............................. 8
4. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND PERFORMANCE TRIGGERS FOR SUBSEQUENT LOANS ............................................ 1 0
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .................................                                                                          12
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .................................                                                                               12
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .................................................... 18
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION ..........................                                                                          19
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ........................................ 20
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ....................                                                                                                 22
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ............................................................... 22
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ....................... 23
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ......................................................................   24
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ......................................................................     25
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .......................                      ............................................... 25
E. SUMMARY  PROJECT ANALYSIS ......................................................................                                       25
1. ECONOMIC ......................................................................                                                    25
2. FINANCIAL ......             ................................................................ 27
3. TECHNICAL ......             ................................................................ 28
4. INSTITUTIONAL ......             ................................................................ 28
5. ENVIRONMENTAL: CATEGORY B (PARTIAL ASSESSMENT) ......................................................................               29
6. SOCIAL ......             ................................................................ 30
7. SAFEGUARD POLICIES .................................3.......1...................                                             ....... 31
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ................................. 32
1. SUSTAINABILITY .................................                                                                                   32
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .................................                                                                   33
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS .................................                                                                               34
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .................................                                                                         34
2. DATED COVENANTS ................................. 34
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ................................. 35
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................... 35



Annexes
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY ............................................. 36
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................. 41
Proect Organizational Chart ............................................. .                                            52
Flow Chartfor the Local Investment Fund .............................................. 53
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ............................................. 54
ANNEX 4: ECONOMIc AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............................................. 55
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY .............................................                                                  63
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................                          64
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING SCHEDULE ............................................. 77
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .............................................                                      78
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LoANS AND CREDITS ............................................. 79
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY ATAGLANCE .............................................     .                                           80
MAP: IBRD 30893



BURKINA FASO
COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR3
Date: October 31, 2000                              Team Leader: Jane C. Hopkins
Country Manager/Director: Hasan A. Tuluy, AFC15     Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTR3
Project ID: P035673                                 Sector(s): MC - Community Action Program, BD - Decentralization,
VM - Natural Resource Management, BI - Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL                  Indicative Financing Plan               Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA    .            Others         Total       Commit-        Closing
US$ m       %         USS m        US$ m          ment           Date
Date
APL 1            66.70      58.1      48.15       114.85          FY2001       06/30/2006  Government of
Loan/                                                                               Burkina Faso
Credit              ______.
APL 2            50.00      25.0     150.00       200.00          FY2006       06/30/2011  Government of
Loan/                                                                               Burkina Faso
Credit
APL 3            50.00      25.0     150.00       200.00          FY2011       06/30/2016  Government of
Loan/                                                                               Burkina Faso
Credit                                                  _ _ _ _ _
Total           166.70     32.4      348 15       514.85      _
Project Financing Data
Amount (USS millions): 66.7
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                     Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: variable (not to exceed 0.5%)                Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan
Source                                                           Local            Foreign            Total
GOVERNMENT                                                          14.30              0.00           14.30
BENEFICIARIES                                                       9.15               0.00            9.15
IDA                                                                56.30              10.40           66.70
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(IFAD)                                                              9.50               2.00           11.50
GOVERNMENT OF DENMARK                                               3.20               1.00            4.20
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                                        8.00              1.00            9.00
Total:                                                            100.45              14.40          114.85



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (PNGT)
Address: Deuxieme Programme National de Gestion de Terroirs
B.P. 1487 Ouagadougou 01
Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Albert Djigma, Project Coordinator
Tel: 226-32-47-53/54          Fax: 226-31-74-10        Email: albert.djigma@ agriculture.gov.bf
Estimated
disbursements
(Bank FYIUS$M):
FY            2001        2002        2003       2004       2005       2006
Annual      10.1       10.2        13.3       14.9       14.9        3.3
Cumulative     10.1        20.3        33.6       48.5       63.4       667    _
Project implementation period: 01/01/2001 - 12/31/2005
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001              Expected closing date:  06/30/2006



1
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing
1.1  The Government of Burkina Faso's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) places its emphasis
on improving the revenues and living conditions of the rural population, particularly food crop producers
who account for 75 percent of the rural poor. The strategy focuses on: (i) accelerating broad-based,
equitable growth; (ii) increasing the access of the poor to basic social services (health, education, safe
drinking water); (iii) increasing the employment and income generating potential of the poor; and (iv)
promoting good governance.
1.2  The Programme National de Developpement Rural Decentralise (PNDRD) is a key program in
support of the PRSP. It will have a direct and immediate impact on poverty reduction by accelerating the
pace of public transfers to rural areas for much needed socio-economic and productive infrastructure. In
addition, it will have an indirect impact on sustainable development by building: (i) the local-level
capacity to prioritize, plan, implement and manage local development efforts; and (ii) the institutional
capacity at local, provincial and national levels to operationalize and support the decentralization process.
1.3  The recent Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise (LPDRD), endorsed by the
Government of Burkina Faso (GOBF) and supported by its development partners, confirms and embodies
the fundamental principles adopted in 1998 in the Textes d 'Orientation de la Decentralisation (TOD) --
decentralization and participation are heralded as pillars of sustainable development. The PNDRD will
promote decentralized rural development and reinforce the capacity of local institutions to sustainably
deliver a number of services selected by and for their populations. The long-term vision is one of
participatory and representative local Governments and institutions planning and managing their own
development programs and mobilizing the necessary resources through increased local revenues and
Government fiscal transfers. To achieve these goals, the program will: (i) strengthen the capacity of
villages and local Governments to prioritize, plan, implement, and maintain community-based
investments; (ii) provide decentralized funding for demand-driven and community-managed rural
infrastructure and services; and, (iii) support the ongoing decentralization process.
1.4  The PNDRD intends to reach all rural communities in the country and implement a harmonized,
multi-donor funded, decentralized rural development framework. It will be implemented over a 15-year
period, consisting of three 5-year phases. Each of these phases will be designed flexibly in order to adapt
to the country's decentralization choices, the pace of resulting institutional reforms, and the need to
harmonize various approaches (see detailed Program Description below).
1.5  Phase I represents the Project and is called hereafter the Community-Based Rural Development
Project (CBRDP). Phase I will initiate the process, develop the capacity of rural inhabitants to manage
their own development in a sustainable, equitable and productive manner, and facilitate the emergence of
rural municipalities (communes rurales). To that effect, it will couple capacity building activities and a
demand-driven local investment fund to enable communities to learn by doing. The CBRDP will also
make a significant contribution to the debate over rural municipal institutions, the transfer of
responsibilities to rural municipalities, fiscal decentralization, and participatory and decentralized
management of village and municipal assets. Phase 11 (2006-2010) will build upon and expand the
achievements of Phase I and allow the Program to reach national coverage. One of the greatest challenges
during this phase will be to build rural municipalities that are truly participatory and accountable to their
population. During this second phase, the CBRDP will be part of a harmonized PNDRD that will reach all
villages, either individually or grouped together in rural municipalities. Phase III will consolidate what
has been achieved and prepare an exit strategy.



2
2. Project development objective
(see Annex 1)
2.1  The overall Program objective is to reduce poverty and promote sustainable development in the
rural areas. Specific phase I (Project) objectives are to (i) build local capacity to plan and implement rural
development, accelerate the pace of public transfers for decentralized rural development, and (ii)support
the implementation of the country's decentralization framework.
2.2  The Project development objective is to increase the productive capacity of the rural sector and
improve the effectiveness of public investments by developing the institutional and organizational
capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan, implement and manage their own development
process. The end of the first phase will see the emergence of rural municipalities with functioning
provincial level coordination forums and a facilitating framework (regulatory, institutional, and fiscal) at
the national level.
3. Key performance indicators
(see Annex 1)
3.1  Key performance indicators and triggers for the Program's successive phases are presented in detail
in Annex I and paragraph B.4.2 below. They include: (i) the establishment of an efficient overall
framework for decentralization in rural areas and the creation of rural municipalities; (ii) the
strengthening of rural communities' capacities for prioritizing, planning and managing their own
development; (iii) the actual development and implementation, in a representative and participatory
manner, of local development plans by a significant proportion of the country's villages; (iv) the
establishment of an efficient mechanism for funding these development plans through the mobilization of
local resources and fiscal transfers.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1)
Document number: R96-140                          Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/11/96
1.1  Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world with a GDP per capita of US$ 240 (1998)
and human development indicators lower than those of most other Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) countries.
It was ranked number 172 out of 175 countries in the UNDP's 1997 Human Development Index.
Literacy is 36 percent versus 57 percent for SSA, life expectancy is 44 years versus 51 years for SSA,
infant mortality is 99/1000 versus 91/1000 for SSA, and maternal mortality is 930/100,000 versus
822/100,000 for SSA.
1.2   With multi-donor support (UNDP, AfDB, EU and IDA), the Government of Burkina Faso carried
out a Living Standards Priority Survey in 1994 and again in 1998.The results confirm that the overall
incidence of absolute poverty (based on minimal nutritional requirements) remains high. According to
the 1998 survey, 45 percent of the population falls below the poverty threshold, with annual incomes of
US$74 per capita (less than 35 cents per day) to cover basic caloric requirements and non-food
expenditures. For the lowest quintile, the average annual income is less than US$50. Poverty is largely a
rural phenomenon -- 95 percent of the poor reside in rural areas and 51 percent of the rural population
live below the poverty line (versus 16 percent of the urban population).



3
1.3   While Burkina Faso's macroeconomic performance has been good since the 1994 CFA Franc
devaluation -- achieving a per capita real income growth rate of 1.6 percent per year -- it is fragile and
below what is needed to reduce poverty substantially. At its current pace, it will take 44 years to double
the country's real per capita income of $145 in 1997 (using 1985 as a base year). With almost half of its
population living under the poverty line, it will take even more time to reduce poverty and meet the 2015
targets.
1.4  In pursuit of accelerated and sustainable poverty reduction, the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) emphasized three goals: (i) maintaining a sound macroeconomic environment in which equitable
growth can lead to poverty reduction; (ii) expanding the provision of social services, particularly in health
and education, to the poorest regions to provide the basis on which all Burkinabe can take advantage of
growth opportunities; and (iii) improving productive opportunities to raise incomes and increase
employment. A new CAS is under preparation to support the Government's recently completed PRSP
which focuses on reducing rural poverty by: (i) accelerating broad-based, equitable growth; (ii) ensuring
access of the poor to basic social services (health, education, water); (iii) increasing the employment and
income generating opportunities of the poor; and (iv) promoting good governance. The PNDRD will be
one of the Government's principal instruments to reduce poverty in rural areas and in the country as a
whole.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Rural sector issues
2.1  The agricultural sector (crop and livestock) is the main source of employment and income for about
80 percent of the Burkinabe population and generates important growth and employment linkages with
the potentially dynamic non-agricultural rural economy. The sector is made up of around 1.3 million farm
households, largely subsistence oriented, with limited access to services, markets and basic socio-
economic infrastructure. The sector is also the principal source of growth for the economy -- contributing
32 percent to GDP and 60 percent to export earnings in 1998.
2.2  Performance of the agricultural sector was erratic in the 1980s, but maintained an average annual
growth rate of four percent. During the first half of the 1 990s, growth was lower (around 2 percent), but
increased in the post devaluation period, to more than 6 percent, largely as a result of a tremendous boom
in cotton output and livestock exports. Real GDP growth reached 4 percent in 1995, 6 percent in 1996,
4.7 percent in 1997, and 6.2 in 1998.
2.3  In spite of these relatively positive 'macro-level' indicators, the incidence of poverty in rural areas
remains high, particularly among food crop producers. Fifty-one percent of the rural population lives
below the poverty line (versus 16 percent of the urban population); the incidence is higher among
subsistence farmers (77 percent) than commercial farmers (42 percent). With a population of 11 million
growing at about 2.7 percent per annum, intense pressure is being placed on the country's limited arable
land resources. Shortened fallow periods, low use of organic and inorganic fertilizers, and overgrazing
threaten an already fragile resource base and have resulted in serious soil degradation and increased
conflict among different user groups. With limited arable land and rising population pressures, it is clear
that intensification and technological change will be necessary to restore and increase the productive
potential of the resource base. Yet, policy and institutional constraints (such as land tenure insecurity)
often discourage farmers from  making the productive investments necessary to reverse resource
degradation, resulting in continued low productivity and increased poverty, rural and urban.
2.4  In addition to their natural resources, the income earning potential of small farmers and wage
laborers is strongly affected by their human capital. Improving the health status and cognitive skills of the



4
rural population should be a top priority -- not only as a goal in itself, but as a cost-effective way of
raising their productivity and incomes. The literacy rate in rural Burkina Faso is only seven percent
compared with a national average of 20 percent and rural primary school enrollment is 19 percent
compared with the national average of 36 percent. Health indicators place Burkina Faso among the
lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). More than one third of the children under five years of age suffer
from malnutrition and Burkina Faso is strongly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic -- the prevalence is 7
percent among the general population; 13 percent in the transport sector. An analysis of these health
indicators by socio-economic strata suggest large urban-rural disparities.
2.5   A poverty reduction strategy must give highest priority to rural development and its engine --
agricultural growth -- not because this is where the bulk of the poor reside, but rather because this is
where the productive potential resides, where linkages with the local economy are strongest, and where
growth can yield the largest impact on both rural and urban poverty. Efforts to improve thecompetitivity
and productivity of the rural sector are at the core of the country's accelerated growth and poverty
reduction strategy. However, the sector remains severely constrained by: (i) poor infrastructure (social
and economic) leading to high input costs and low labor productivity, (ii) limited access to and use of
improved technologies, (iii) land tenure insecurity, (iv) inadequate access to financial services, and (v)
ineffective agricultural and social service delivery mechanisms.
2.6   Recent economic reforms have been favorable to rural development and agricultural growth
through their price effects. However, they have been unfavorable through their public expenditure effects
(reduced funding for rural infrastructure, agricultural research and extension). Coupled with reductions in
foreign aid allocations to agriculture, the net impact has been a slowdown in rural growth and hence in
poverty reduction. It is often assumed that opening the economy to market forces is sufficient to ensure
rapid growth of the agricultural sector. Although reforms that facilitate the expansion of the export
sectors are essential, specific characteristics of the rural sector such as: (i) a large number of smallholder
farmers who are geographically dispersed and poorly organized; (ii) high exposure to multiple sources of
co-variate risks (climate and market-related); (iii) complex institutional arrangements governing the
markets for productive factors (e.g., land); and (iv) numerous market failures preventing their efficient
operation suggest that, in addition to market reform, judiciously chosen public investment is needed.
Specifically, public expenditure on rural infrastructure (hard and soft), technology generation, and
institutional development/reform will be necessary for rural and agricultural growth to accelerate.
2.7   The challenge, in an era of limited and shrinking resources, will be to increase the relevance and
cost effectiveness of public sector expenditures. Past efforts to tackle the policy, institutional and
technological constraints facing the rural poor have been centrally driven and sectorally focused. As a
result their effectiveness has been low. Decentralized decision-making and economic empowerment of
beneficiary communities is expected to improve the choice, relevance, cost effectiveness, and
maintenance of rural infrastructure (see box below for overview of decentralization in Burkina Faso). In
addition, to meet the demands of the local population, the deconcentration of sectoral ministries (and
engaging in public/private partnerships where appropriate) will improve the delivery mechanisms of
public goods and services and make them more demand-responsive. Such a vision is described in the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and the Letter of Decentralized Rural Development
Policy.



5
Decentralization in Burkina Faso
Backsround
Decentralization in Burkina Faso has a long and arduous history. The first, closely controlled, communes were
crated under the colonial regime. Attempts at consolidating local organizations succeeded, but none managed to
institutionalize locally elected councils and mayors. The process started anew in 1991 with the adoption of
Constitutional reforms. The Commision Nationale de la D4centrailsation (CND) was created and charged with
developing a framework for the decentralization process and advising the Government on its implementation.
In 1998, after five years of preparation and national debate the National Assenbly passed the Textes d')rientation
de la Dcentralisation (TOD). The TOD sets up the fundamental principles guiding the organization and
implementation of decentralization in Burkina. Decentralization, or the right for decentralized entities to freely
manage their own affairs, has become an organizing principal for promoting development and democracy.
The TOD envisions two levels of decentralization: the province and the municipality. The provincial territory will
include departments, municipalities, and villages. As a decentralized entity, the province will be headed by an
elected provincial council and a presidet. As a deconcentated entity, it will continue to be administered by a haut-
commissaire, assisted in his/her work by a consultative body named the Confirece des Cadres de la Province. The
departnental territory will include municipalities and villages. It is administered by aprifel.
Both urban and rural municipalities will exist, each headed by its own elected officials (mayor and council). An
urban municipality is a community of at least ten thousand people able to mobilize a budget of at least fifteen million
FCFA. A rural municipality is defined by a population of, at least, five thousand people and a minimun budget of
five million FCFA.
Ktitutions
National Commission on Decentralization (Commission Nationale de la £McentralisationCND: The CND is under
the patronage of the Prime Minister and enjoys a good deal of autonomy in identifying and implementing its
progam. The Commnission is responsible for conceptualizing and piloting the decentralization process through a
program of action-research, dissemination of information, and training. With the design and implementation of rural
decentralization still very much on the drawing board, it plays a major role in the process. The CND is financed
largely thoiu  a consortium of donors. Of particular interest are two pilot instruments developed and managed by
the CND: the SAGEDECOM and the FODECOM. The SAGEDECOM is helping municipalities identify, design,
and co-fnance their training plan. The FODECOM is a fund whose pwpose is to help fledgling municipalities start
functioning. It co-finances recurrent costs and basic infrasuctues. In association with AFD, the CND is also
involved in a study on sustainable municipal financing, and with CIDA. in assessing the results of decentralization to
date and in designing a progran to support urban municipalities.
Ministry of Territorial Administration fMinssAre de I'Admlnistration Territoriale et de la Sicuritt. MATS): The
MATS is in charge of implenenting decentalization; it takes up where the conceptualizing role of the CND stops.
It is also the lead ministry (Minist&re de Tutelle) for decentralization and is responsible for enforcing the laws and
decrees.
Government strategy for the rural sector
2.8   The PRSP places an emphasis on improving the revenues and living conditions of the rural
population, particularly food crop producers who account for 75 percent of the rural poor. This is to be



6
achieved by: (i) accelerating broad-based, equitable growth; (ii) increasing access of the poor to basic
social services (health, education, safe drinking water); (iii) increasing the employment and income
generating potential of the poor; and (iv) promoting good governance.
2.9   The strategy for accelerating broad-based, equitable growth and increasing the employment and
income generating potential of the poor relies heavily on improving thecompetitivity and sustainability of
the crop and livestock sectors. This is to be achieved by addressing overall policy and institutional issues
such as liberalization of the transport sector and reform of the public sector, as well as sector specific
natural resource, production and marketing constraints. The Government's agricultural strategy for the
2001-2010 period, the Document d'Orientation Strategique (DOS) and Plan Strategique Operationnel
(PSO), outline the sector specific technical, policy and institutional actions needed. They are summarized
in the following five priority action plans:
(i) Modernization of Agriculture: The main goal is to induce a fundamental shift from a
low input, low output agriculture into a higher input (improved seed, water management,
fertilizer, farm equipment), higher yield agriculture, in order to increase labor
productivity and incomes. A special effort is required to identify and promote
intensification technologies, appropriate to the country's various production zones. This
calls for strengthening semi-formal savings/credit channels and requires a special effort
on seed selection/distribution and in quality control of inputs.
(ii) Soil Fertility:  The main goal is to restore the nutrient content of the soil, a
prerequisite for promoting agricultural intensification and land productivity increases.
The strategy will comprise an incentive and institutional package designed to lower the
price and improve the distribution of chemical fertilizers; the promotion of
complementary organic fertilization technologies based on a greater integration of
livestock into the farming systems; and the execution of various small scale soil erosion
control structures and bush/tree plantings at the village level.
(iii) Food Security: The main goal is to increase the production of local staples in which
the country has a comparative advantage (millet, sorghum, maize) through better research
and extension (service delivery) and to create an incentive framework favorable to the
increased involvement of the private sector in the transport, storage and marketing of
cereals.
(iv) Support to Producer Organizations (POs): The main goal is to strengthen producer
organizations so that they can: (i) participate in the formulation of sector and sub-sector
policies and in the choice of public investment priorities; and (ii) organize the provision
of key services and inputs to their members.
(v) Institutional Development: The main goal is to create public sector institutions that
are well adapted to the redefined role of Government, i.e. a role refocused on policy,
regulation, planning, monitoring and the provision of demand-driven public services,
consistent with a decentralized rural development strategy in which the resources and
decision-making power is in the hands of the rural population.
The National Environmental and Desertification Action Plan (PAN/LCD) and the National Soil Fertility
Action Plan (PAGIFS) are in direct support of these sectoral priorities.
2.10 Given that land and labor are the principal income earning assets of the rural poor, increased access
to basic social services and infrastructure is important not only as a stand-alone poverty reduction



7
objective, but also as an essential ingredient to increasing the productivity, and hence growth, of the rural
sector. The social sectors have set ambitious poverty reduction goals. For example, the Government's
education objectives over the next 10 years include: (i) increasing at a reasonable cost, the primary school
educational level from 40 to 70 percent, particularly in rural areas and especially girls and (ii) providing
literacy training and increasing the literacy rate from 22 to 40 percent. In terms of drinking water, the
Government's goal over the next 10 years is to have a majority (over 90 percent) of villages in all 45
provinces having one watering point for each 500 inhabitants, at a distance of no more than 500 meters
from the residence, with sufficient capacity to provide 20 liters of water per capita per day. The social
sector strategies have each emphasized the need for a decentralized approach in order to meet their
targets. For example, the health sector aims to: (i) improve health coverage by decentralizing the
provision and management of services to the district level, and (ii) improve the quality of health services
by reinforcing the participation of users and communities in their management.
2.11 Decentralization and participation are the fundamental guiding principles of the LPDRD, they are
also the key to good governance as noted in the PRSP. Decentralization plays an important role in a rural
poverty alleviation strategy, by placing key decisions and funds in the hands of those who stand to
directly gain or lose from the results of development actions. Effective allocation and management of
public resources must be done through a decentralized, participatory process in which beneficiaries are
empowered to define their priorities and manage the supply of the services needed; and service providers,
including public institutions, are responsive to beneficiary requests. This implies a devolution of
responsibilities to the rural population for managing their own local development and a re-focusing of the
role of the state on providing a supportive policy and institutional framework. The transfer of
responsibilities must be accompanied by a transfer of resources, and at least a partial transfer of technical
services. The Government also has a role to play in compensating for market and social failures.
2.12 The Government has decided to adopt a measured pace of implementation, consistent with the
country's limited capacity to manage such a complex institution building process. It is expected that the
first rural municipalities will be created within the next three years and full coverage of rural areas will
take many more years. The Textes d'Orientations de la D&entralisation (TOD) state that: (i) elections for
urban communes will take place before the end of 2000; (ii) provincial elections must be organized for
the totality of the country before the end of 2003; (iii) elections for existing rural municipalities will be
held simultaneously with the provincial elections (if separate elections are needed, they will be organized
before 2005). In order to develop the management capacities at the local level, the Government strategy
foresees the immediate devolution of responsibilities for local investment planning and execution to
village organizations, along with the necessary financial resources.
2.13 There are 8,000 administrative villages in Burkina Faso with populations ranging from a few
hundreds inhabitants to several thousand. Village organization varies across the country depending on
ethnicity and history, but is often highly structured on the basis of lineage, gender and age. The Village
Chief is generally the head of the main lineage and rules with the help of an elders council. The Land
Chief may or may not be the Village Chief, and may even live in another village. Since independence,
the Government and various projects have attempted to build a village institution that would be their
interlocutor at the local level and be composed of members of the different socio-cultural groups. The
1996 Agrarian Reform Law (RAF) gave a legal existence to village level committees (Commissions
Villageoises de Gestion des Terroirs, CVGT) that were to play a role in land evaluation, allocation and
withdrawal. In February 2000, the Government passed a decree broadening the CVGT's range of
development responsibilities and enabling them to manage public funds. The CVGTs will facilitate the
transition towards rural municipalities, in particular since they will be able to federate into inter-village
committees (CIVGT). CVGTs and CIVGTs however, will not substitute for rural municipalities once the
latter are in place. Thus, the approach tested under the first phase of the proposed Program is expected to
pave the way for the creation of the country's future rural municipalities.



8
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Sector issues addressed
3.1   Decentralization and Local Empowerment: The proposed project will be in direct support of the
Government's decentralized rural development strategy. It will do so by:
(i) Adopting a decentralized approach for the delivery of technical assistance and investments
consistent with the subsidiarity principle of the TOD, which calls for the transfer of State
responsibilities to the level most apt to effectively carry them out. Accordingly, small socio-
economic and productive investments will be identified, executed, and managed by local level
organizations.
(ii) Supporting the emergence of rural municipalities The project will build on existing social
capital to strengthen local capacity and institutions and guide villages towards their incorporation
into rural municipalities. Villages will be able to learn municipal management and experience
inter-village collaboration before being formally set as decentralized entities. In addition, the
project will finance a pilot where the nature and the mode of transfer of municipal responsibilities
will be tested along with participatory management techniques.
(iii) Helping central institutions in charge of conceptualizing and implementing decentralization, in
particular the CND and the National Decentralization Directorate (DGCL) to better perform their
work.
3.2  Broad-Based Rural Growth Strategy: The Project will improve rural living conditions and address
agriculture and livestock production constraints by funding priority socio-economic and productive
infrastructure (including environmental protection and natural resource management activities) and by
strengthening the link between service demand and service delivery. Desertification, land degradation,
and the loss of biodiversity are factors that impact sustainable growth. The Project will tackle these issues
with the support and collaboration of two Global Environment Facility operations currently under
preparation (the Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) and the National Natural
Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN) ).
3.3  Land tenure insecurity is an issue which features prominently in many communities. Population
pressures and resource degradation have resulted in increased conflicts between herders and farmers and
between indigenous and immigrant populations. Boundaries of community lands are often ill-defined and
can also give rise to disputes with neighboring villages. Where intensification is an option, tenure
security can be a constraint on investment. For all these reasons, the proposed Program will pilot a
methodology for improving land tenure security.
3.4  The Project itself will not directly address issues related to the establishment of the supporting
sectoral policy and deconcentrated technical support framework for each subsector. This is the role of the
respective line ministries and will be supported by other IDA/donor-funded operations. In the agriculture
sector, the Bank is already funding a national subsector program for technology development and transfer
and for strengthening farmers organizations. Other donors are funding complementary interventions:
rural finance (EU, DANIDA, AFD, Dutch Cooperation, IFAD), professional organizations (EU, AFD,
Belgium Cooperation, DANIDA, Dutch Cooperation, IFAD), institutional development (EU, Dutch
Cooperation, French Cooperation), and soil fertility (Dutch Cooperation, IFAD). The Government is also
implementing national sector programs for rural roads, health, HIV/AIDS, and education. All of these
sectoral programs place a strong emphasis on the decentralization/deconcentration of service delivery and
the close articulation between national strategy and local needs.



9
Strategic choices
3.5 Why adopt a 'learning by doing' approach? The Government's decision to take a pragmatic
approach to decentralization will allow for lessons learned to be incorporated as the decentralization laws
are operationalized and will ensure political stability in the process. It will also allow issues related to
fiscal decentralization to be resolved while the less sensitive political and administrative decentralization
processes continue. Effective decentralization to rural community groups will depend upon the success of
capacity-building efforts. Consistent with the choice of the Burkinabe for a progressive decentralization,
the Project will invest heavily in capacity-building of communities, local organizations, service providers,
and institutions with the goal of transferring key decisions and abilities for prioritizing, planning and
executing village (and inter-village) investments to the local level. At the same time, as experience is
gained with community involvement in public sector investments, lessons will be drawn, from the Project
as well as other rural development actors, as to the organizational and technical needs of the future rural
municipalities. These will be discussed and evaluated in a transparent manner as part of the 'learning by
doing' process.
3.6   What investments will be eligible? Given the demand-driven nature of the Project, a decision was
made to maintain flexibility and focus the eligibility criteria on the use of public funds in general. Three
general categories of investments/activities are envisioned, each pertaining to a different interest group:
*  productive investments with a clear public-goods element for groups of individuals within or
across villages (e.g., bottomland development that has spill-over effect to the community as a
whole, soil and water management investments of a structural nature, ...);
*  socio-economic public service/infrastructure investments at the individual village or community
level (e.g., small roadwork, water supply, school, ...);
*  socio-economic public service/infrastructure investments at the multi-village or province level
(e.g., larger schools, micro-finance institution outpost, health posts, HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation activities, inter-village roads, market, ...).
3.7   What institutions will be developed? The institutions strengthened by the Project at the village,
provincial, regional and national levels are consistent with the TOD and the LPDRD and will build on
existing social capital. The Project will work with villages and clusters of villages throughCVGTs and
CIVGTs in order to enable them to take charge of their own development. Skills and financial resources
will be transferred to that level so that communities can devise and implement sub-projects based on their
own priorities. Particular attention will be paid to the participatory processes so that CVGTs andCIVGTs
are sufficiently representative and local choices benefit all groups. This approach will prepare for the
emergence of rural municipalities by building management capacities, participatory processes and by
informing the content of implementation decrees for decentralized rural development. In addition, the
Project will directly support the emergence of the new rural municipalities by providing a training
program to newly elected officials and complementing their investment resources with the local
investment fund (LIF). Provinces will be strengthened in their coordination and planning role. Finally,
national level institutions such as the CND and the Directorate for Local Collectives (DirectionGenerale
des Collectivites Locales, DGCL) will be supported in their policy-making and monitoring functions.



10
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
Program Description
4.1    The institutional challenges of the reforms under way and the necessarily gradualist approach to
capitalize on actual implementation experience have led the Government to formulate a 15-year national
program (2001 to 2015). This Programme National de Developpement Rural Decentralise (PNDRD) is
supported by an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) divided into three phases of five years each. These
phases are described below. During the first phase, the overall program (PNDRD), funded by several
donors under separate operations, will cover about two-thirds (5,000) of the 8,000 villages in Burkina
Faso, with the IDA-supported operation itself providing direct support to some 2,000 villages. All villages
in the country will be covered by the PNDRD by the end of the second phase (following redeployment
and extension of various donor supported decentralized rural development projects).
Phase 1: Support for village organization and the emergence of decentralized rural development
During the first phase, the progam will help develop the capacity of the rural population to sustainably manage their own
resources and will facilitate the emergence of rural municipalities. At the end of this phase, villages grouped together around a
local development plan will form the nucleus of municipal management mechanismns, and some will be ready to apply for rural
municipality status. The program will also have made a significant contribution to the debate over rural municipalities (transfer
of responsibilities, fiscal decentralization, and participatory management of village and municipal assets) and will have
supported the birth of the first ones. The project will also support the provinces so they can play an increased role in provincial
planning and serve as forums for debating and harmonizing approaches and procedures for community-based land management
and local development projects.
The project has five components: (i) local capacity building geared towards organizing villages and strengthening their capacity
to plan, implement, operate and maintain investments- (ii) a local investment find with two windows, one that channels
resources directly to rural comnunuities on a matching grant basis to finance demand-driven socio-economic and productive
investments, and another window for larger investmnts identified by rral communities and implemented by provinces; (iii)
institutional capacity building will include the costs of training, equipping, and operating the field teams and other service
providers with whom the CBRDP has signed agreements; it will also include activities in support of rural decentralization at the
local, provincial, and national levels; (iv) a land tenure security pilot operation; (v) program coordination, administration, and
monitoring/evaluation.
During the first phase, the Project will liaise closely with other donor-funded participatory rural development programs, in order
to harmonize approaches and arrive at a single national community-based rural development policy supported by a multi-donor
funded investment program by the end of year five. The Project will act as a financier of last resort for other community-based
development prnjects operating in provinces not covered by the project to help them expand their geographic coverage and/or
their range of local investment options. Nearly two-thirds of the rural communities (about 5,000 villages) will benefit directly
or indirectly from Phase I of the Program.



11
Phase 2. Extendiug and Deepening Decentralized and Participatory Rural Development
During the second phase (2006-2010), mual municipalities will gradualy form from the clustess of villages established during
the first phase. Support will continue to be provided in the areas of docentralized and participatory plannuing and managemenL
The loeal investmnt find will open a window for municipal investments. During this second phase, all villages, either
individually or grouped together in rural muicipalities, will be covered by the PNDRD. The provinces will continue to be
supported in their planning role for dcentrized rural development
Phane 3: Pirogram Consolidation
The progressive approach adopted by fth Govermnent to decentralized rural development has the advantage of building a
consensus around broad national optiom but it will also mean that the decentralization process can be implemented according
to more than one schedue. This ast phase of the program is intended to provide further support to mral municipalities in
making priority investments and in consolidating their institutions on a sustainable footing throg a tanarent system of local
revenue raising and fiscal trasfers. The PNDRD will have become a key instrument for the provision of capacity building and
co-financing for the country's rural municipalities. As part of its technical assistance role, it will support the creation of social
control mechanisms which are needed to prevent municipal budgets from being appropriated by a small group of beneficiaries.
Performance Triggers for Subsequent Loans
4.2   The following triggers have been set for moving through the successive phases of the Program:
End of Phase I: Achievement Indicators
*   At least 75 percent of villages targeted in the first phase have received capacity building support and
have adopted a local development plan.
*   At least 60 percent of beneficiary villages have representative and participatory bodies assuming their
role in local development (planning, execution and management of local projects) and have
substantially completed their development plan in a satisfactory manner (economically and socially).
*   At least 30 percent of villages have been regrouped into inter-village development structures that
have already undertaken sub-projects in common.
*   75 percent of target provinces have a functioning representative coordination body (bringing together
the State, representatives of the local community and development partners) providing sound
coordination of available resources and quality services to support local development efforts.
*   The decentralization law is being implemented satisfactorily.
*   A  functioning national forum  has made substantial progress towards harmonization of rural
decentralized development approaches.



12
* Plans for decreasing the central administrative structure of the Project have been developed and
partially implemented.
*  The financial management and M&E systems' performance is fully satisfactory.
End of Phase II: Achievement Indicators
* At least 90 percent of all villages are organized either in clusters of villages or in rural municipalities
and have local development plans.
* At least 60 percent of all villages have substantially completed their development plan.
* At least 500 rural municipalities have been created and are operational.
* The Government has transferred significant responsibilities and resources to rural municipalities.
4.3   A strong monitoring and evaluation system, which includes participatory beneficiary assessments
as well as independent technical and scientific assessments, has been put in place to allow the results of
the first, and each subsequent, phase to be measured. In addition, household-level panel data will be
collected for impact evaluation purposes.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Overview
1.1  The approach followed by the Program is based on the empowerment of rural communities for
decisions concerning their own local development. It is demand-driven and inclusive, i.e., based on a
participatory needs assessment that seeks to involve all societal groups, howevermarginalized. It ensures
the relevance, cost effectiveness and accountability of key investment decisions and management
responsibilities by delegating them to the lowest level possible (i.e., as close as possible to the intended
beneficiaries). It closely links agro-sylvo-pastoral development with the provision of socio-economic
infrastructure and services, thereby recognizing that rural development requires multi-sectoral
interventions. Accordingly, the range of village (and inter-village) level investment choices is wide and
will include productive sub-projects, in particular those associated with natural resource management
(e.g., soil and water conservation infrastructure), as well as sub-projects aimed at improving access to
social infrastructure and services.
1.2 Effective decentralization to rural community groups will depend upon the latter's capacity to
manage increasingly complex development activities. Hence, capacity building will be a fundamental
component of the first phase of the program. Intensive training efforts will be undertaken, directed at
communities and intermediaries (service providers such asNGOs, private contractors, and public services
which will be in direct contact with the communities). As indicated in the components table below, the
bulk of project funding will be for development of local and institutional capacity (33 percent) and local
investments (48 percent). The Project will be co-financed by IFAD, the Government of the Netherlands,
and the Government of Denmark. Global Environment Facility (GEF) funding, from operations currently



13
under preparation, will complement existing funding and provide incentives to communities to undertake
sub-projects focused on biodiversity and global climate change issues
Indica-              Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        tive      % of    Financ-    Bank
Costs     Total       ing     Finane-
(US$M)         _     (JSSM)      ing
1. Local Capacity Building        Rural             11.38       9.9       5.46       8.2
Development
2. Local Investment Fund (LIF)    Rural             54.79      47.7      33.75      50.6
Development
3. Institutional Capacity Building  Rural          26.52       23.1      12.73      19.1
Development
4. Land Tenure Security Pilot     Rural              3.82       3.3       3.10       4.7
Development
5. Project Coordination,          Rural             10.94       9.5       5.46       8.2
Administration, M&E             Development
6. Physical contingencies         Rural              0.90       0.8       0.80        1.2
Development
7. Price contingencies            Rural              6.50       5.7       5.40       8.1
Development
Total Project Costs                        114.85      100.0      66.70     100.0
Total Financing Required                      114.85      100.0      66.70     100.0
Project Description by Component
1.3   The Project includes five main components: (i) Local Capacity Building; (ii) Local Investment
Fund; (iii) Institutional Capacity Building (including support and advisory services); (iv) Land Tenure
Security Pilot Operation; and (v) Project Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation.
Local Capacity Building
1.4  The specific objective of this component is to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity
of the rural population so that they can prioritize, plan and execute the activities envisaged under the
program, including the preparation and implementation of local development plans, and organization into
socially and economically cohesive rural municipalities. It has three sub-components:
(i) Awareness raising: This sub-component includes all communication, promotion, information
activities. It aims to disseminate the project's objectives, explain the modalities for participation in
it, and encourage the regrouping of villages. Publicity and awareness campaign activities will be
based on existing modules developed and tested during the predecessor project. They include radio
announcements and theatrical presentations. These activities seek to mobilize the interest and
participation of villagers, existing local-level institutions, and traditional authorities to organize
themselves at the level of the "terroir," and inter-terroir. They willinter alia explain the process of
establishing a CVGT and/or a CIVGT and identify potential resource people in the village.
Villages are selected each year as part of the work programming exercise on the basis of expressed
interest, location, poverty profile, and access to other investments from donor and NGO supported



14
activities. The final list is established in collaboration with the Provincial Technical Coordination
Committee (Cadre de concertation technique provincial, CCTP). Villages that have agreed to
establish a CVGT/CIVGT become eligible for more in-depth training support. Upon establishment
of the CVGT/CIVGT they become eligible for participation in the investment program.
(ii) CVGT/CIVGT training programs: This sub-component is centered on the organizational,
management and technical skills required for CVGTs/CIVGTs and their subcommittees, the
Comiti d'Action Specifique (CAS) to successfully plan, implement, and maintain village level
investments. This training program includes: organizing village assemblies and keeping records of
decisions; obtaining legal recognition for village level organizations; carrying out community
needs assessments and development plans; sorting out land rights in the process of community land
development planning; accessing financial resources and mobilizing self contributions; and
executing investment projects (contracting, cash management, record keeping, monitoring).
HIV/AIDS has become a threat to the country's long-term development. A specific HIV/AIDS
training and awareness raising program will therefore be put in place. This training will have as
its'objective to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS and provide information on prevention, care and the
identification of specific interventions related to the alleviation and prevention of the disease that
are eligible for project financing. These interventions will be included in the local development
plan.
An important alphabetization program will also be undertaken to accompany the establishment and
strengthening of local level organizations, as this has been determined to be a major determinant of
successful local organizations. All such training will be provided by third parties hired by the
project.
(iii) Technical support to community organizations: This sub-component relates to the technical
support provided to the CVGT and the CAS for carrying out their annual investment plans. This
support was provided by provincial teams under the previous project but will be increasingly
delegated to third parties when and where capacity exists. The Project will enter into contracts
with private providers (firms), NGOs or Government technical services to provide the needed
services. These service providers will support community organizations in preparing project
proposals on the basis of technical standards prepared by the Project (referentiel technique), in the
selection of contractors or qualified local workmen, and in the supervision of the execution. They
must alsc help the beneficiaries in setting up maintenance programs and mechanisms for cost-
recovery.
Local Investment Fund (LIF)
1.5  The local investment fund will have two windows: one for financing village and inter-village sub-
project (<US$ 30,000), and a special window (>US$ 30,000 - <US$ 150,000) to provide the provinces
with resources to undertake larger structural works. A detailed implementation manual has been prepared
which specifies the rules and procedures attached to these sub-projects. The draft manual was made
available to the Association prior to negotiations. It will be finalized as a condition of effectiveness.
Village and inter-village investment window
1.6 Village or Inter-Village Committees for Community Land Management (CVGT or CIVGT) will be
organized and, following a participatory diagnosis, will develop multi-year community-based
development plans covering a variety of sectors. Based on the available budgetary envelope, the required
counterpart contributions, and other conditions laid out in the operational manual, the CVGT/CIVGT will



15
identify an Annual Investment Plan (AIP) that prioritizes these local investments. Safeguards,
recommended by a Social Assessment carried out during project preparation, will be introduced to make
sure that all social groups are involved in the process of village needs assessment and project
identification. The M&E system will allow for verification. Following a simple review by the CCTP for
procedural regularity and conformity with sectoral policies (school and health maps, for example), and the
deposit of the required beneficiary contribution, a contract for the AIP will be signed between the Project
and the CVGT (or CIVGT) and the funds will be transferred into a local financial institution account
opened in the name of the CVGT (or CIVGT).
1.7  The financial envelope provided will be calculated on the basis of a per-capita amount of some
US$ 3-5 per year. This amount may vary on the basis of the capacity of CVGT/CIVGT to make effective
use of the resources provided to them. Villages will be encouraged to collaborate on the basis of common
goals and in order to make more effective use of the pooled resources. This is an extremely flexible
approach, intended to allow villages to learn on their own, and first hand, about municipal management
procedures and to experiment with them without the constraint of overriding alliances and commitments.
The process of decentralization and of forming rural municipalities should emerge the stronger because it
will be firmly rooted in participation and consensus.
1.8  The CVGTs and the CIVGTs will be responsible for executing the sub-projects and may recruit
contractors and workers for this purpose. The Project will provide contract management support through
service providers contracted for this purpose, and through the provincial technical services of
Government, with whom protocols will be signed. The beneficiaries will also be able to recruit additional
and independent outside technical expertise for supervising the sub-projects (execution and acceptance).
The funds to pay for such services (up to 10 percent of the total investment cost) are included in the
investment budget covered by the LIF. Transparency in the selection of priority investments, the award
of contracts and the management of funds and works sites will be assured by greater community control
(availability of information, contributions by beneficiaries, and CVGT and CAS supervision) and by ex-
post supervision organized by the national program coordinator.
1.9  Eligible investments: The Project will provide support, on a matching grant basis, for socio-
economic and productive investments. The Project will not, however, provide direct financing for
activities of a private or commercial nature. Any project that is not included on the negative list and that
meets the eligibility criteria set out in the procedures manual may be financed.. The principal categories
of eligible village and inter-village sub-projects are as follows:
a. Soil and water conservation;
b. Reforestation and forest management;
c. Structural support for improving animal husbandry;
d. Structural support for improving agricultural production
e. Water supply infrastructure;
f. Feeder road improvement/infrastructure;
g. Social and economic infrastructure;
h. Renewable energy;
i. Nutrition and health education
j. AIDS/HIV prevention and mitigation activities
k. Support for expanding the network of decentralized financial institutions;
1. Training and action research.



16
Provincial window
1.10 This window will fund infrastructure projects that encompass a larger area and often several
"terroirs". It will be available for sub-projects whose feasibility has been demonstrated and for which
adequate arrangements to ensure operation and maintenance have been worked out. Eligible subprojects
will be no larger than US$ 150,000, and could fall in the following broad categories: forest management;
pastoral management; and socio-economic infrastructure. Arbitration among potential projects will be
conducted by the CCTP, which will include representatives of beneficiary groups. Execution of these
larger sub-projects will be handled by the project's provincial operational teams which will procure the
required construction and technical services.
Institutional Capacity Building
1. 1 1 The specific objective of this component is to build institutional capacity at the local, provincial,
and national level. It includes the costs of training, equipping and operating the field teams (largely on
contract basis) and other service providers with whom the Project has signed agreements (i.e., protocols
with Government technical services and decentralized financial services (DFS); contracts withNGOs and
consulting firms). It also includes the cost of PNDRD activities in support of rural decentralization at the
local, provincial and national levels (i.e., strengthening institutional, human and financial capacities,
piloting and implementing fiscal and financial decentralization, other studies and training). Specific
support is as follows:
Local Institutions: The Project will train, contract, and equip field operators (NGOs, consulting
firms, Government technical services) to help communities organize themselves and prepare and
implement local development plans. Once rural municipalities are created, the Project will provide
them with basic training and will make the local investment fund available to them.
Provincial Institutions: This sub-component will strengthen the coordination, management and
financial capacities of province-level institutions and prepare the province for its future role as a
decentralized entity. To achieve this objective, the Project will support basic operating costs,
training and investments (provincial window of the FIL). It will revitalize the CCTP, improve
their functioning and ensure that their membership is comprised of representatives of the provincial
public services, donor-supported projects, NGOs, and beneficiaries. Among other responsibilities,
the CCTP will monitor and orchestrate the harmonization and integration of various local
development projects and programs.
Regional Institutions: The Project will provide support to the Regional Departments of the
Ministry of Economy and Planning (DREP) to strengthen their capacity to monitor the
decentralized rural development process. Training, operating support and equipment will be
provided.
National Institutions: The Project will support the CND and the DGCL in their effort to design and
implement decentralized and participatory rural development, and to gradually establish
representative and accountable rural municipalities. The proposed program will include a pilot to
test the social, economic, fiscal and institutional viability of about 15 rural municipalities, as well
as applied research, studies, training and equipment for the DGCL and the CND.
Land Tenure Security Pilot
i.12 As in most countries of the sub-region, land is officially the property of the State. However,
customary rights continue to co-exist and are often the de facto rule of law. The 1996 Agrarian Reform



17
(Rlorganisation Agraire et Fonciere, RAF) represented a major step forward in recognizing customary
modes of land management. However rising population pressures, a deteriorating resource base and
intensification of the traditional production system have led to an increase in the number of land-related
conflicts and have heightened the need for improved land tenure arrangements. Recognizing this, the
Government has initiated several experiments to improve land tenure security. This pilot operation will
support that effort. The National Forum for Decentralized Rural Development (National Forum) will
ensure coordination of the various pilot operations and be responsible for informing the public debate on
the basis of the pilot results [see paragraph C.1.14 (i)].
1.13 The objective of the pilot operation is to help improve land tenure security and access for all users.
It will contribute to: (i) foster equity and social peace, (ii) encourage investment and raise agricultural
productivity, and (iii) enhance the preservation and rehabilitation of natural resources. To that effect, it
will define and propose, on the basis of concrete experimentation in the field, an institutional, legal,
technical and methodological framework for stable and equitable land tenure in rural areas. The pilot will
be conducted in six test sites representing the principal systems of land use and the ownership problems
associated with them. It will experiment with methodologies for recording and securing user rights,
initiating the formalization of customary systems, resolving conflicts, and demarcating land use units. The
whole process will be demand-driven and participatory and will feed into policy-making at the national
level. It will pay a particular attention to the rights of traditionallymarginalized groups such as herders,
women and youth.
At the end of the pilot operation, the component will have produced the following:
* A practical methodological guide (toolbox) for use in improving rural land tenure security;
- A documentation system for information generated by the PNGT2 pilot operations;
- A preliminary national action plan for securing stable and fair rural land tenure; and
A preliminary program of land tenure interventions for implementation in phases II and III of the
PNDRD.
This pilot operation will be implemented by the regular provincial teams of the Project and reinforced
with staff from line ministries and consultants.
Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation
1.14 This component includes three sub-components: (i) support for the coordination office/forum of the
overall PNDRD and (ii) support for the coordination and management of the IDA-supported Project; and
(iii) support for program and project monitoring and evaluation.
(i) Overall Program (PNDRD) Coordination: The Project is designed as part of the Program
National de Developpement Rural Decentralise (PNDRD), a national program involving a
decentralized and participatory approach to community-based land management and local
development. The PNDRD serves as a frame of reference for the various projects fostering local
development in rural communities. One of its central objectives is to help harmonize the
approaches of these different programs and projects so as to make more efficient use of available
resources and to achieve swifter and more effective national coverage. A National Forum will be
established to facilitate this process. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such a
Forum will be established in form and with functions, staff and resources acceptable to the
Association by March 31, 2001.
(ii) Project (CBRDP) Coordination: The national project coordination unit (PCU) will be
responsible for coordinating all activities under the Project, in particular for providing funding to



18
beneficiaries within the established deadlines, monitoring and evaluating the program at the
national level, managing studies and the provision of services, and drawing lessons from the
various national experiments in decentralized and participatory rural development.
(iii) Program and Project Monitoring and Evaluation: This will include setting up an integrated
system of management and monitoring for both the overall PNDRD and the IDA-supported
Project. The system will include: (i) real-time monitoring of physical and financial execution of the
Project; (ii) technical and financial audits of the Project; and (iii) monitoring and evaluating the
economic, environmental and institutional impact of the Program and the Project. These systems
are detailed in the Project Implementation Manual.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
2.1  The Program will support the Government's strategy for poverty alleviation and rural development
through a decentralized, demand driven approach. This strategy is outlined in the Government'sLetter of
Decentralized Rural Development Policy.
2.2  The minimum policy framework in support of decentralized rural development, and necessary for
the successful implementation of the Project, exists in Burkina Faso. The TOD (Decentralization Laws)
provide the legal basis for the creation of rural municipalities and programs their creation as follows. All
chefs lieu de departement will automatically become communes rurales (rural municipalities) within five
years. The province, today an administrative division, will also become a collectivite territoriale
covering the entire rural area within its jurisdiction, excluding rural municipalities. Villages will be able
to regroup, and request to become communes rurales, provided they have a minimum of 5,000 people and
a self-financed budget of at least FCFA 5 million (some US$ 7,000). Elections for the first provinces and
rural municipalities will take place no later than five years from the date of the TOD.
2.3   Responsibilities transferred to decentralized units are also consistent with the goals of decentralized
rural development that are supported by the Project. Specific responsibilities for education, health, social
and economic development, and the environment are assigned between the province and the rural
municipality according to the subsidiarity principle (the lowest level able to carry out the task) and must
be accompanied by a transfer of resources and technical services.
2.4  The challenge in implementing the TOD is to find a way to establish rural municipalities with a
size that permits sufficient administrative capacity without losing the active grassroots participation and
shared identity. To that end, the CBRDP will adopt a progressive and flexible approach that will permit
villages to experiment working with other villages and develop a consensual approach to local
management. At the end of Phase I, villages should be able to decide on their incorporation as rural
municipalities. Lessons from CBRDP and other projects will be shared through the National Forum of
the PNDRD and incorporated in the process.
2.5   Another challenge will be in deciding whether the totality of rural areas will be structured into
municipalities or if large 'islands' will remain under the responsibility of the province. The coming years
will be crucial in determining the concrete modalities of rural municipalities' functioning, financing, and
modes of representation. The Project will support pilots and applied research that will help inform
decision-making at all levels.
2.6  The Project will be an active instrument in designing and implementing rural decentralization; it
will begin its operations during a transitional phase when no rural municipalities exist. Decentralization
of decision-making power and public funds to the local level for the planning and execution of publicly-
funded investments requires the existence of a broadly representative village organization with legal



19
status and operational capacity. The predecessor project successfully experimented with using the CVGT
and their CAS to plan and implement natural resource management investments. An inter-Ministerial
decree (February 2000) has established the CVGT and the CIVGT as the main local decision-making and
executing institutions during the transition preceding the creation of rural municipalities.
3. Benefits and target population
3.1   A Poverty Assessment conducted in 1998 identified the rural population as having the largest
concentration of poor people. Fifty one percent of rural people are in a state of absolute poverty
(calculated on the basis of minimum caloric requirement). The Project will have a direct positive impact
on the well-being, productivity and income of some two million people, living in the 2,000 villages to be
covered by the Project (about 25 percent of the rural population).
3.2   Based on the results of the 1998 impact evaluation assessment of the predecessor project, it is
possible to predict four broad categories of benefits from the Program:
*  Impact on living conditions. The Program will have an direct impact on rural incomes through
productive investments, such as the development of bottom lands, and an indirect impact through the
spillover or stimulative effect of such investments on the local economy. Increased productivity
resulting from soil fertility interventions and increased access to markets will also lead to increased
incomes. Food security will be enhanced as a result of income increases, and also due to the
construction of cereal banks and feeder roads. Clean water will lessen the impact of water borne
diseases. Village health interventions will extend the outreach of the district level health centers, in
all aspects of preventive health, including HIV/AIDS (the prevalence of HIV/AIDS is between 6 and
10 percent among pregnant women). Village schools built in response to public demand will lead to
increased child enrollment. Contracting local artisans and small-scale entrepreneurs will generate
local employment opportunities.
*  Impact on natural resources. Better management of natural resources for long-term sustainable use is
a fundamental aspect of the Program. Improved soil fertility, more abundant vegetation cover,
reclaiming bare land, slowing down erosion, increased biodiversity will be the main results. A special
effort will be made to monitor the impact of the Program on the environment, and beneficiary villages
will be trained to monitor key indicators (e.g. yields, presence or absence of certain species, water
level).
*  Impact on local capacity. Strengthened capacity of broadly representative village organizations is a
prerequisite to the efficient execution of the Program, the equitable distribution of its benefits and the
sustainability of its results. The creation of CVGT and support to their internal organizations and
procedures will be a key step in the emergence of capable rural municipalities. To ensure that their
views and priorities are fully represented, the participatory process will make it mandatory to include
traditionally disadvantaged groups, including women, youth, and those who suffer from severe
poverty. Alphabetization programs will be an essential ingredient in this capacity-building effort.
Additional training will be directed to the technical and organizational skills required to ensure the
maintenance of project-funded investments.
*  Impact on the institutional environment. The Program will play an essential coordination role at the
village, province and national levels, integrating the interventions of a large number of actors across a
broad range of sectors and sub-sectors.  Significant results were obtained under the PNGT,
eliminating duplication of effort and reducing intervention costs. This was been made possible by
actors from a broad range of field organizations teaming up to support the promotion of the PNGT
approach: joint participatory needs assessment, harmonization of approaches, sharing responsibility



20
for financing local development plans, exchange of experiences, joint evaluations, etc. The Program
will build on this effort and even greater cost effectiveness is expected, as lessons learned are
incorporated, and coordination is institutionalized at the province level through the CCTP.
3.3  The participatory M&E system and socio-economic impact studies will place due emphasis on
assessing the impact of the project on vulnerable groups.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
miplementation Period
41   The Program is scheduled to be implemented over a fifteen-year period, of which the proposed
f;ve-year Project represents only the first phase. In line with the flexible approach taken under APL, the
actual duration of each phase will depend on the progress made in attaining the agreed targets and
mreeting the stipulated triggers. Subsequent credits will be extended in conformity with agreed milestones
and triggers.
pogram (PNDRD) Coordination and Monitoring
4.2  At the national level, the PNDRD supports the implementation of the Government's decentralized
rural development strategy as presented in the Government's Policy Letter. Several projects/programs,
vvith the common central objective of supporting rural decentralization and local development but with
different designs, are currently in execution within this overall framework. A national forum will be put
ir, place to evaluate the experiences and harmonize various approaches to decentralized rural development
t-ie Cadre National de Coordination et de Concertation du Developpement Rural Decentralise . The
rorum will play an important role in the exchange of ideas and experiences, the medium-term goal being
thle adoption of best practices by all donors and the evolution of the various on-going operations towards a
s;ngle national program. The Project will provide operating support to this National Forum.
4.3  At the regional level, the Project supports the gradual transfer of responsibility to the DREP for the
exchange of ideas and experiences between donors-supported projects, Government technical services,
and civil society.
4.4  Within each province, a framework for coordination among all development partners in the
province will be established in the form of a Cadre de concertation. The composition and mandate of the
Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial (CCTP) is described in the Government's Policy Letter.
The Project will provide operating support and basic equipment to enable the Cadre de concertation to
carry out their mandate in all provinces.
Project Management, Administration and Monitoring
a5 Project Oversight: A Project Steering Committee will be established to guide Project
inplementation and review and approve the annual work program and budget. The approved work
program and associated budgets and procurement plans will be submitted to IDA after approval by the
Steering Committee.
4.6  Project Management: Day-to-day management of the Project will rest with (i) a national
coordination unit and (ii) operational units established at the provincial level. The main responsibilities of
"he national project coordination unit (Coordination Nationale du Projet, PCU) will be to:
(i) manage the work program at the national level,



21
(ii) ensure that funds from Government and donors' contributions are made available to the
beneficiaries in a timely manner and in accordance with the signed agreements with each donor,
(iii) provide technical support to the provincial operational units during the start-up phase of the
Project,
(iv) organize workshops at the national and regional levels in support of the PNDRD; and
(v) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the work program and its impact, and report results
to various stakeholders.
4.7  The Project will establish 19 provincial operational units (Equipes Operationnelles, EO) to cover
the 26 provinces of direct intervention. The responsibilities of the provincial EOs will be to (i) assist the
CCTP in the coordination of the Program at the provincial level; (ii) provide support to the CCTP in its
review of village/inter-village or terroir level development plans; (iii) enter into contracts with and
supervise the service providers hired by the Project to execute specific activities (e.g. training of
beneficiaries, participatory needs assessments, project proposal formulation, execution of the annual
investment plan); and (iv) implement the monitoring and evaluation system at provincial level.
4.8  Project Monitoring:  Project execution, output and outcome data will be collected at the
community level by the beneficiaries themselves. To do so, they will receive training from the project.
The data collected by the beneficiaries is computerized, analyzed and aggregated by the EOs and made
available to the CCTP and the DREP. At this level, the information is used to review the work program
(supervision, approval of new investment budgets, ...), improve coordination between development
projects, NGOs and public agencies, and monitor development impact. A copy of the report is provided
to the beneficiaries for information and feedback. After initial compilation and analysis by theEOs, the
data is forwarded to the monitoring and evaluation staff at the PCU to be further aggregated and analyzed
at the national level. The findings will be used in the progress report and the national and regional
workshops.
Cofinancing Arrangements
4.9 The project will be co-financed by a number bi-lateral and international donors. IFAD's co-
financing will be on a pari passu basis. The Government of Denmark and the Government of the
Netherlands will provide co-financing to support specific components of the Project (the M&E and the
traditional energy components, respectively). The Global Environmental Facility (GEF) will complement
project activities by providing incremental resources to support the community-based aspects of the
Government's environmental and natural resource action plans through two operations currently under
preparation -- the Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management Program (SILEM) and the National
Natural Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN).



22
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Centrally Executed Approach
1.1  Early rural development projects, and natural resource management projects, tended to rely on
centrally planned and command-and-control approaches (the environment, for example, was a resource to
protect from farmers' encroachments and state agencies were in charge of implementing conservation
strategies). Their success was mixed at best, because of the lack of ownership and participation of
beneficiaries in decision-making and implementation. A new generation of projects now places the
resource user at the center of the equation and is designed to provide incentives for the user to maintain
the environment. This change in paradigms has meant a shift from conservation strategies towards
participatory and decentralized approaches. The CBRDP is part of this new generation of projects and
will strengthen the capacity of communities to plan, finance, implement, and manage sustainable local
development.
"Classic" Community-Based NRM Approach
1.2  The Environmental Management Project (PNGT), a Community-Based NRM  Project, was a
landmark in Burkina Faso for developing and systematizing the "Gestion des Terroirs" approach. This
approach turned over part of the responsibility for managing natural resources to the communities whose
livelihoods depended on it. It developed an array of participatory techniques to involve communities in
needs identification, priority setting, and implementation. The participatory approach proved to be
successful but the project was confronted by a number of limitations:
(i) The devolution of responsibilities to communities was incomplete and the project retained
important implementation responsibilities on behalf of the communities;
(ii) The project had difficulty in scaling-up, partly due to the centralization of responsibilities and the
extensive use of project personnel to implement capacity building activities;
(iii) The strategy developed by the PNGT was not fully inscribed in the national institutional
framework and this raised questions about its sustainability; and
(iv) The participatory approach raised expectations that the project could not fulfill since it was only
focused on NRM activities.
1.3  Pilots implemented under the PNGT and during the preparation of the CBRDP clearly indicated the
path to follow. Four main adjustments were made to the original project design: first, a decision was
made to shift the responsibility for the execution of investment projects from the PCU to the beneficiary
communities; second the menu of investment options offered by the Project was broadened so as to
include basic social infrastructure and, thus, better respond to community demand; third PCU's role has
shifted from direct execution to the coordination of intermediaries responsible for the execution, with
increased emphasis placed on institutional capacity building of both public and private service providers;
and fourth, the Project has inscribed itself into the national decentralization strategy and will become an
active instrument of its implementation.



23
Sectoral Program Approach
1.4   Another option was to implement the program  through a series of separate sub-sector national
projects. This option could perhaps achieve some efficiencies in execution but would lose the synergies of
an integrated community-based development approach. It would be difficult to foster ownership by
communities since they would not be prioritizing sub-projects. Furthermore, such an approach would
neither encourage, nor support, the emergence of efficient and accountable local Government.
Faso Baara Approach
1.5   Implementation of projects using Faso Baara (public executing agency for civil works) may
achieve speed and efficiency in executing large, standardized types of infrastructure. This institutional
arrangement, however, is not suited for community-based demand-driven investment programs. It relies
on large contractors who have difficulty dealing with the numerous small-scale and varied requests from
rural communities. In addition, such an agency does not foster local empowerment and capacity building
and, therefore, limits community ownership and the long-term sustainability of investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                              Project                              (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-finenced projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed:                                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural Development/Agriculture   Environmental Management Project, PNGTI (completed);   S                S
Food Security Project, PSAN (completed);              S                S
Second Agricultural Services Development Project,
PNDSAII (ongoing);                                    S                S
Private Irrigation Project, DIPAC (ongoing)           S                S
Health                          Health and Nutrition Project (on-going)                S               S
Population and AID Project (on-going)                 S                S
Environment                     Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management         N/A             N/A
(GEF financed, Bank implemented)    Program, SILEM (under preparation)
National Natural Ecosystem Management Program,
PRONAGEN (under preparation)
Education                       Post-Primary Education Project (ongoing)               S                S
Transport                        Transport Sector Adjustment Credit (ongoing)          HS               S



24
Other development agencies:
AFD/French Cooperation           Local Development Projects (ongoing)
IFAD (Intemational Fund for      Soil and Water Conservation/Agro-Forestry I and 11,
Agriculture Development)         South West Rural Development Project, Rural Micro-
enterprise Support Project
EU                               Support to Decentralization (planned)
ACDI                             Pilot Environmental Fund (ongoing)
Swiss Cooperation                Rural Equipment Fund (FEERI completed, FEER2
planned)
Dutch Cooperation                Local Development Projects, Support to Professional
Organizations, Support for Rural Financial Services Action
Plan, Support for National Soil Fertility Action Plan (on-
going)
DANIDA                           Local Development/NRM Projects (PGRN-SY, PDR-B,
PGRN-K), Suppon to Rural Financial Services Action
Plan, Support to Professional Organizations (ongoing)
GTZ                              Training Program for Locally Elected Officials (ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Community-Driven Development
3.1   In many countries, limited Government success in managing natural resources, providing basic
infrastructure, and ensuring primary social services has led to the search for alternative institutional
options.   One of these  options is participatory  community-driven  development.   The  substantial
experience accumulated to date of what works and does not work, has been drawn upon in designing the
proposed program. In particular, for the Government and outside donors to induce community-driven
development on a large scale requires a substantial investment in local organizational capacity and
support to community control and decision making. Experience also shows that community-driven
development does not automatically lead to the inclusion ofmarginalized groups -- their inclusion must
be highlighted as a goal of the program and specific actions undertaken. Lessons will be drawn from
IFAD's experience in targeting these groups. Finally, successful community-driven development is
characterized by five main factors: local organizational capacity or the existence of viable community
groups, the appropriate fit of technology to community capacity, effective outreach strategies, client
responsive agencies, and enabling policies and Government commitment. All these factors have been
taken into account in the design of the proposed program. Specific features related to demand-driven
funds, local institutions and representativity are discussed hereunder.
Demand-Driven Funds
3.2    Experience regarding procedures and mechanisms for successfully and sustainable community-
level investments shows that sub-projects must be identified, planned, implemented and managed at the



25
local level; procurement procedures have to be simplified and ex-ante controls replaced by ex-post audits;
and investments must be co-financed by the beneficiaries (according to an agreed-upon matrix that adjusts
the level and nature of co-financing according to the type of investment and local poverty levels). The
CBRDP incorporates good practices from a range of international experiences on local investment funds.
Decentralization and Local Institutions
3.3   A key to successful and sustainable operations is to build on the country's institutions. Burkina
Faso's recent reforms on decentralization and land tenure have been taken into account in the design of
the CBRDP. The Project will prepare and pilot rural decentralization by strengthening local institutions'
capacity to manage their own development in an equitable and sustainable fashion. The Project also gives
content to the land tenure framework by working with the CVGT/CIVGT and consolidating their role.
Additionally an approach to resolving land tenure conflicts and promoting tenure security will be tested.
Representativity and Accountability
3.4  Lessons learned from participatory strategies show that all efforts at devolving authority and
resources to the local levels will fail if local institutions (traditional and modern) are not sufficiently
representative of the rural population and accountable to them. The Project has developed an array of
methods for participatory planning to ensure that all segments of village society are given a voice. These
methods are being further refined based on the outcome of the social assessment carried out during
project preparation. Future rural municipalities will build on these participatory tools and thus develop
local Governments that are more accountable.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
4.1  The Government is committed to decentralizing investment decisions to the rural municipality and
provincial levels. The legal framework has been put in place and the creation of rural municipalities is
scheduled to take place progressively over the next five to seven years. The Program will be a vehicle for
piloting rural decentralization and facilitating its successful implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
5.1  The Bank is in a unique position to support Government policy and institutional reforms (such as
decentralization and fiscal transfers) on a national scale, and to establish the necessary linkages and
synergy between these reforms and investment activities. In addition, the Bank is able to support long-
term institutional reforms and investment programs through APLs.
E. Summary Project Analysis
(detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic
(see Annex 4)
1.1   Because of the demand-driven, dispersed and flexible nature of its activities, the Project doesn't
lend itself to the standard quantitative cost-benefit or least-cost analysis. The ex-ante economic analysis
is therefore couched largely in qualitative terms. However, the economic rationale of the Project remains
strong and it is possible to demonstrate that (a) the Project will generate substantial economic benefits;
and (b) compared with alternative approaches, the approach adopted by the Project improves the cost-
efficiency and sustainability of the investments and activities undertaken.



26
1.2  The design of the Project incorporates mneasures to maximize the economic benefits. First, the
Project Implementation Manual will include strict eligibility criteria for specific investments to ensure
that they are economically justified (e.g. number of people served by spot improvement of a village
access road, distance from next water point for construction of a well or borehole, etc.). IRR for
individual subprojects, least cost alternatives, and cost per beneficiaries will be used where feasible or
applicable, for the larger sub-projects. Second, a carefully designed monitoring and evaluation system
will trace the economic impact of the Project, by collecting relevant indicators from beneficiary villages
before and after investments. An external technical review will be carried out annually to assess, on the
basis of a representative sample, the technical quality of the sub-projects, their cost, and theirsocio-
economic impact.  A  baseline household-level survey will allow  quantitative assessment of the
development impact of the Program as a whole.
1.3   Economic benefits: The main economic benefits of the Project can be summarized as follows:
*  Investments in soil and water conservation infrastructure: Natural resources (land, forests, pastures,
lakes) are the principal productive assets of the rural poor. Efforts to reverse the degradation of the
resources and improve their productive capacity have a large payoff in terms of current and future
income generation. Research from various parts of the Sahel shows positive net returns over the long
run to natural resource management (NRM) investments. For example, the net present value of
techniques such as composting, windbreaks, or rock bunding are all around US$ 700 per hectare.
INERA research in the Bazega area of Burkina Faso shows an increase in sorghum yields of 85
kilograms per hectare using erosion control techniques; an increase of 362 kilograms per hectare
using organic fertilizer and composting techniques; and an increase of 824 kilograms per hectare (a
doubling !) using a combination of the two techniques.
* Maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads. Better roads will increase access to markets and social
services, such as health and education. Better access to markets will generate economic benefits from
market transactions; access to social services increases productivity, which in turn contributes to
increased income.
*  Investment in safe water, education and health care services: The impact of improved access to
social infrastructure (e.g. safe water, education, health facilities) has both short-term and longer-term
(generational) impacts in terms of improved health, nutrition and labor productivity. They contribute
to poverty reduction in the short-term by improving the quality of rural life, and in the long-term,
through a more productive work force, to overall economic development. Access to clean water, by
improving the health of rural population and reducing the time spent (especially by women) in
transporting water, will contribute to poverty alleviation and significant improvement in the
productive capacity of rural people, particularly women. The benefits of improved water supplies
(quantity and quality) on health outcomes are well documented. These health benefits in turn lead to
labor productivity and income gains via a variety of direct and indirect pathways.Directly, healthier
individuals are able to spend more 'effective' hours in wage and farm work and fewer 'sick days'
releases labor for productive activities. Indirectly, improved health (a) decreases the amount of 'care
time' spent with sick relatives thereby releasing labor for productive activities, (b) decreases the time
required for complementary activities such as fuetwood collection which might be necessary when
water is contaminated, and (c) may alter the portfolio of income generating activities undertaken by
the household since individuals with health risks might engage in lower-output activities that are less
sensitive to labor supply interruptions (Hoddinott, 1997). One study estimates the labor productivity
losses due to stunted growth at 9 percent (Pinstrup-Andersen et.al., 1996). In addition, there are a
series of second round effects to improved health. For example, higher incomes lead to increased
expenditures on commodities that improve health (e.g. higher quality diets) and expenses associated



27
with being sick decrease. Studies also show that better health also leads to direct improvements in
schooling outcomes (Behrman, 1996).
*  Employment creation: The Project will contribute to employment and income generation in rural
areas: (i) directly, through improvement of the productive capacity of the natural resource base and
involvement of local artisans and village workers in the construction of basic infrastructure funded
under the LIF; and ii) indirectly, through the new and/or additional economic opportunities generated
by road improvement and. improved capacity for economic activity due to better health and water
supply. Growth multiplier research in Burkina Faso indicates that each dollar of additional income
generated in the agricultural sector will generate an additional US$ 1.90 of income in the local
economy through the stimulative impact of spending on local goods and services (Delgado, Hopkins
and Kelly, 1998).
1.4 Cost-efficiency and sustainability: The Project has been designed to enhance cost-efficiency and
sustainability. Efficiency gains, due to increased relevance of investment decisions, are expected to be
derived from the decentralized decision-making and implementation process. Experience with investment
funds for decentralized rural development projects in Latin America and Asia has shown that
communities generally choose investments which can be expected to have a very high rate of return, such
as water supply, rehabilitation of roads and schools. In addition, decentralization of decision-making not
only creates incentives to keep investment costs low and the quality of service delivery high, but also
increases the likelihood of investment sustainability. The Project will promote cost-efficiency through
contractual, rather than hierarchical, relationships of beneficiaries both with the administrative staff in
charge of managing the LIF and with other technical support agencies. The standardization of the small-
scale civil works project documents, technical designs and unit costs will simplify the preparation and
evaluation of projects under the LIF, facilitate procurement, and provide a technical and financial
reference for local communities. Such standardization encourages participation by poorer communities
and reduces bottlenecks in the sub-project cycle.
2. Financial
(see Annex 4)
2.1  The impact of sub-projects on recurrent costs at the village level will be evaluated during their
identification and provisions will be made to ensure the operation, maintenance and renewal of those
investments. In some cases the beneficiaries will assume the recurrent costs directly (e.g., productive
investments, water supply); in others, adequate provision will be made in the budget of the responsible
ministry (e.g., schools, health posts). Emphasis will be put on cost-minimization measures and on
anticipating additional funding requirements to ensure investment sustainability.
Fiscal Impact
2.2  The long-term objective is for rural municipalities to be able to raise their own fiscal resources
from increased local economic activity and consumption, and thereby contribute to the funding of their
local development plans reducing the need for fiscal transfers from the central Government. In the short-
to-medium term, fiscal transfers from the central Government will be needed to cover what the
beneficiary contribution does not. It must be recognized that the long-term capacity-building needs of the
rural communities of Burkina Faso will require considerable support, and that such support will need to
come largely from the outside, including support to cover the operating costs of the Program and
intermediaries. Such operating costs are part of the investment required to build institutional, and
ultimately fiscal, sustainability. The goal here is to make large transfers to destitute areas over an
extended timeframe.



28
3. Technical
3.1   Under the Project, responsibility for sub-project identification, preparation and implementation will
rest with villages and eventually rural municipalities. The issue of technical capacity and sub-project
quality is addressed in the following plan:
*  The guiding premise for the Project is that there is considerable latent technical and managerial
capacity at the local level. The pilot phase activities, conducted during project preparation, have
shown that this capacity is released by empowering communities through a participatory process.
Service providers (e.g., NGOs, private sector operators) will be recruited to assist the
CVGT/CIVGT in elaborating participatory local development plans and annual investment.
*  The Project will emphasize the promotion of sustainable mechanisms for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural infrastructures. A specific village committee (Comite d'Action Specifique,
CAS) will be set up for the sub-project to manage project construction and maintenance. They
will be in charge of users fee collection and mobilization of counterpart contributions.
*  The Project provides the option for communities to use a portion of the resources allocated by the
LIF, to finance the recruitment of technical expertise to assist in the design, supervision and final
reception of works to ensure the quality of the sub-project. The Project will also, under its
capacity building component, provide a variety of training programs at the village level (for the
CVGT, CIVGT, and CAS) and at the province level (for the CCTP) to upgrade their managerial
and technical skills.
3.2   A technical assessment of key components was carried out as part of Project preparation; reports
can be found in the Project File. The outcome of these assessments are the precise technical criteria
(norms and standards) for sub-projects, which are included in the Project Implementation Manual. In
addition, the Project will establish collaborative protocols with line ministries to ensure appropriate
technical supervision of the design and execution of sub-projects in their respective sectoral plans. It is
expected that most village and inter-villageAIPs will consist of basic infrastructure that local artisans and
entrepreneurs have sufficient knowledge and experience to execute. The design and execution of these
works will be facilitated by the use of standard design plans. Project staff will undertake random quality
checks of sub-project execution and independent technical audits will be undertaken.
4. Institutional
4.1 Executing agencies: The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) demonstrated its capacity to satisfactorily
execute a village investment program during the predecessor project. One of the lessons learned was the
need to extensively engage the services of others: Government agencies, private service providers,NGOs
and beneficiaries. This allowed the predecessor project to triple its coverage in a short period of time.
Scaling up Project activities, from the level of 400 villages over a five year period to 2,000 over the same
period, to meet the poverty reduction goals of the Program will pose a significant challenge for the project
coordination unit (PCU). It will require a large increase in activities over a relatively short period of time,
which in tum will require selecting and training new service providers. Thus there is some risk of start-up
delay. In order to minimize these delays, the PCU has started the process of identifying potential service
providers. Institutional strengthening of the PCU is required in the areas of financial management, and
monitoring and evaluation in order to undertake the program. These issues are being addressed using
project preparation funds, a PHRD grant, and the support of DANIDA. A participatory monitoring and
evaluation will be tested and put in place prior to project effectiveness. The financial management system
is discussed above. The PCU has satisfactorily proven its ability to applyIDA's procurement procedures
under the predecessor project. Its ability to execute the expected increase in the work program will be



29
closely monitored during project implementation and additional staff may be hired on a contractual basis
when the procurement volume so warrants. An implementation manual has been prepared detailing
implementation, procurement, financial, administrative, and monitoring and evaluation procedures.
Finalization of this manual is a condition of effectiveness.
4.2 At the regional level, the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (DREP)
will receive project support to allow them to increasingly take on the donor coordination activities now
carried out by the PCU. As an institution they are still relatively weak. The Project therefore includes
training activities to reinforce their capacity to coordinate rural development activities at the regional
level, and financial support to carry out these coordination activities. It is expected that over time they
will also play an increasingly active role in Project monitoring and supervision.
4.3   At the provincial level, the CCTP will be reinforced through training, operating budgets and
vehicles and equipment. The CCTP is the provincial coordination mechanism for all local development
activities. As such it plays a vital role in the review process of socio-economic investments such as
schools and health centers, and in the selection of villages that will participate in the investment program.
It also plays an important role in Project monitoring, supervision, and reception of civil works as
representative of the Government. To implement the Project and assist the CCTP, small operational
teams will be created in 19 provinces. These teams will select and train the agencies (private or public)
assisting in project implementation and will supervise their activities. The main constraint will be to find
sufficient numbers of qualified staff and service providers. Identification of service providers will start
prior to effectiveness and adequate training has been included in the project to ensure that sufficient
capacity exists. Procurement at the provincial level for project related activities and for the provincial
investments under the FIL will be executed by the provincial teams. Their procurement capacity will
initially be weak. However, project activities will be scaled up gradually to match the implementation
capacity of the EO.
4.4  The investment part of the Project (the FIL) will be executed to a large extent by the beneficiaries
themselves. Tests with beneficiary executed investments were satisfactorily concluded during the
predecessor project and the need to strengthen capacity of village organizations was highlighted as a main
determinant of future success. At present, the villages have weak institutional capacity to implement the
activities proposed under the program. Capacity building activities of village organizations, in particular
the CVGT and its CAS, are therefore an important part of the Project's design. The capacity building
activities will also lay the groundwork for the future communes rurales, which is an integral part of
Government's decentralization strategy.
5. Environmental: Category B (Partial Assessment)
5.1  The Project has a category 'B' rating. In fulfillment of the World Bank Environmental Assessment
guidelines OP/BP/GP 4.01, and in conformity to the recently adopted national environmental impact
assessment legislation, the borrower prepared an environmental analysis. This analysis defines the
project environmental dimensions, and identifies measures needed to prevent the planned activities from
causing ecological damage and social costs. It was prepared in consultation with a number of NGOs
working on environmental and natural resource management issues in Burkina Faso and has been
available publicly in country since July 1999.
5.2  The EA classifies the sub-projects in two major categories. The first one consists of investments
with positive or relatively minor negative environmental impacts (e.g., forest management, maintenance
or repair of an existing physical work, construction of a building with a negligible footprint, etc.). The
second category consists of sub-projects that may have a negative environmental impact. This category
includes: rural roads, feeder roads through forest zones, tracks and pathways in pastoral zones, small-



30
scale dams, small piped water systems for large villages, wetlands and ecosystem management, and
rangeland management.
5.3  Environmental Management Plan.  For sub-projects with a potential negative environmental
impact, four types of interventions are envisioned to reduce or eliminate the possible adverse physical
and/or socio-economic outcome. These activities are included in the Project design and built into the sub-
project investment costs:
*  Planning of investments: For any sub-project with potential negative environmental impacts a
systematic review is conducted at the planning stage in order to predict the magnitude of these effects.
Clarifying the relationship between the sub-project and its physical, economic, and social
environment at the outset makes it easier to control or eliminate the adverse impacts. The EA has
prepared a set of guidelines that will help the environmental screening and scoping of sub-projects
submitted for funding. The investment phase will begin only after the EA is completed, and effective
means for controlling negative environmental impacts are identified and properlycosted. The scope
and level of detail of the EA must match the nature and scope of the sub-project.
*  Implementation: During the investment phase the environmental mitigation measures identified in the
EA study are implemented. These are measures that effectively eliminate or significantly reduce the
sub-projects' adverse environmental impacts. They may include relocating the project to a more
appropriate site, modifying the design or construction techniques, changing the implementation
period, or undertaking specific investments to rehabilitate the environment. The EA has prepared a
set of generic mitigation measures based on the lessons learned from the previous project. This set
will serve as a guide for formulating site-specific measures.
*  Monitoring & Evaluation: The monitoring and evaluation system will include basic tools for
assessing whether the identified mitigation measures have been implemented and are effective. These
tools include the items to be monitored, the methodology used, and the assignment of responsibilities.
The development of indicators is a condition for ensuring that environmental impact management is
an integral part of the standard program of monitoring practices. The monitoring program will be tied
in with the existing GIS database developed under the previous project, and will allow the monitoring
of changes due to project activities at national, provincial and local levels over the short, medium and
long-term.
*  Capacity Building: EA legislation is new in Burkina Faso and national capacity in conducting EA is
embryonic. Helping to build the administrative and technical capacity necessary for effective
environmental assessment is therefore a key priority. A well-designed EA training module will be
based on a thorough review of the roles of all the stakeholders, including project administrators, EA
teams, local consultants, line ministries,NGOs, technical experts, and local communities. On-the-job
training will play a critical role during this first phase of the program. In order to increase rapidly the
competence of the operational staff, EA technical support mechanisms will be put in place at the
beginning of the project.
6. Social
6.1   A social and institutional assessment was carried out as part of Project preparation, with the goal of
understanding the social dynamics at the household, local institution, and community levels and
maximizing the impact of the Project on the poor and traditionallymarginalized groups. Key lessons and
conclusions were fully integrated into the project design:



31
*  Institutional Development: There is no conflict between the institutions promoted by the PNGT (i.e.,
the CVGT and the CIVGT) and traditional community-level organizations. On the contrary,
traditional structures that will be represented by the CVGT/CIVGT will find in these a beginning of
formalization. Very importantly, the social assessment shows that "communities" of villages exist,
tied together by social, cultural, kinship, religious and market relationships. This provides the basis
for encouraging villages to regroup and eventually to form rural municipalities.
*  Vulnerable Groups: One of the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to select,
finance, and implement subprojects is how to ensure an equitable and representative decision-making
process. Since most Burkinabe cultural groups are very stratified -- organized around caste, age,
kinship, and gender divisions -- the LIF will use participatory planning and animation techniques to
ensure that vulnerable groups (e.g., women, herders, youth, casts) are fully included in the decision-
making process. Moreover, village-level committees will include representation from vulnerable
groups. In addition, the Project's land tenure pilot operation is specifically designed to develop a
methodology to enhance land access and security for vulnerable groups. Once this methodology is
established, the Project will promote its implementation at the national level.
6.2   The project has been designed to be broadly participatory at all levels, and first and foremost at the
community-level. Well known participatory needs assessment techniques will be applied to involve the
maximum number of beneficiaries in sub-project selection. The above mentioned social assessment will
permit to refine these techniques.
7. Safeguard Policies
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     Yes
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    No
Indigenous People (OD 4.20)                                      No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            No
Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies are as follows:
*  Environmental Assessment: The project is classified as Category B. The EA examines the project's
potential negative and positive environmental impacts and recommends measures needed to prevent,
minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts and improve environmental performance in
line with BP/GP/OP 4.01 (as discussed in section 5 above).
* Natural Habitats: A positive natural habitat conservation outcome is expected through a collaborative
agreement between the Project and two Global Environment Fund (GEF) operations currently under



32
preparation, the Sahel Lowland Ecosystem Management Program (SILEM) and the National Natural
Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN). The incremental GEF funding will finance local
capacity building and LIF sub-projects related to the conservation of natural habitats andbiodiversity
as well as land restoration.
* Forestry: The project supports forestry activities that are environmentally sound (e.g., reforestation of
degraded watersheds or improved communal forest management). In line with OP 4.36, these
activities are included on the basis of their own social, economic, and environmental merits.
* Pest Management: The project does not involve the direct promotion or support the use of pesticides.
In the few cases where the Project might recommend the need of pest control, an Integrated Pest
Management approach will be used (biological control, cultural practices, and the use of crop
varieties that are resistant or tolerant to the pest) that will minimize the need for chemical pesticides.
The required mitigating measures are detailed in the implementation manual.
*  Cultural Property: The project will not have a negative impact on any national or international
cultural heritage or property.
* Indigenous People: Not applicable.
* Involuntary Resettlement: The project will not involve any activities that displace people
involuntarily.
* Safety of Dams: The project will only support the construction of small dams of less than 15 meters in
height, such as farm ponds or local water retention structures. Generic dam safety measures designed
by qualified engineers will be used in accordance with BP 4.37. The project will not finance any
dams that are 15 meters or more in height and pose particular design complexities, as these do not fit
into the scope of the project and in general will cost more than the maximum allowable cost of a
project supported activity.
* Projects in International Waters: The project will not support any activities in the following types of
international waterways: any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water that forms a boundary
between, or any river or body of surface water that flows through, two or more states, whether Bank
members or not; any tributary or other body of surface water that is a component of any waterway
described above; and any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by two or more states or, if within one
state, recognized as a necessary channel of communication between the open sea and other states--and
any river flowing into such waters.
* Projects in Disputed Areas: The project area does not include any disputed territory as defined in
BP/GP/OP/7.60.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
1.1   As previously noted, institutional sustainability of development actions is the main objective of the
first phase of the Program. Considerable resources will therefore be directed to institutional strengthening
at all levels. At the sub-project/community level, sustainability also depends on the degree to which
beneficiaries have ownership of the Project. This sense of ownership is an essential goal of the
participatory process. The contribution required from beneficiaries, on average 20 percent in cash or in



33
kind, helps achieve this sense of ownership and therefore supports the sustainability of the investment.
Where essential and feasible, community contribution for recurrent maintenance will be a condition of
sub-project funding.
2. Critical Risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk
Risk                       Rating                 Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Goverment commitment to decentralized                    Ownership of the Program by the Government is high
decision-making and resource transfer to rural  M        (preparation by National team; high level Steering Committee
communities and their grouping (future rural             with representatives of all major ministries involved)
municipalities) is not sustained
From Components to Outputs
A training program for service providers is included, to teach
them the community-based land management/local
Competent service providers are not available   S        development approach. A roster of competent service
providers is being compiled as part of the preparation to assess
availability of skills required for Project execution
The Project execution manual sets clear rules and criteria for
Capacity to upscale project at desired rate is     sub-project selection and approval and for processing rules;
capstraciteby t cupleprsojet atpdesired rate is          model contracts and technical standards are included. This
contation by ceum es                                    allows delegation of approval and supervision to
intermediaries, thereby accelerating the pace of project
execution.
Development of local capacity is slower than             The Project places heavy emphasis and resources on training
expected                                                 and providing technical back up to community organizations
Technical back up is inadequate                 M        Model agreements and funding are provided for hiring public
and private technical service providers.
Marginalized social groups are excluded from    M        Social impact assessment has recommended safeguards, e.g.
project investments                                      social control mechanisms will be established
The approach proposed under the Project has been tested
Overall Risk Rating                             M        successfully elsewhere and in Burkina, and presents therefore
relatively low risks. Notwithstanding, the scale of
irnplementation envisaged will be a challenge.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
3.1    The Project is based on a previous operation that was very successful and has been prepared
through a highly participatory process, involving a wide range of local stakeholders. The risk of
controversial aspects has thus been greatly reduced. The Project's monitoring and evaluation system,
focusing on socio-economic and environmental impacts will be instrumental in defusing any unforeseen
issues.



34
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
The following conditions will be conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit:
(a) the Borrower has established the Project Steering Committee in a form and with functions,
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association;
(b) the Project Steering Committee has approved: (i) the Project Implementation Manual in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the work program for the first Project
Year;
(c) the Borrower has recruited the following key staff to the PCU, namely (i) a Project coordinator,
(ii) a financial management specialist assisted by two accountants, and (iii) a monitoring and
evaluation specialist, following an open and transparent selection process and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
(d) the Borrower has (i) opened the Project Account; and (ii) paid into the Project Account the
Initial Deposit;
(e) the Borrower has installed an accounting system, a financial management system, and a
monitoring and evaluation system for the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
(f) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(g) the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association.
2. Dated Covenants
The following will be a dated covenant:
(a) The Government has agreed to establish the National Forum for Decentralized Rural
Development (Cadre National de Coordination et de Concertation du Developpement Rural
Dkentralise') in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the
Association by March 31, 2001.



35
H. Readiness for Implementation
Q     la) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
X     lb) Not applicable.
DI   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
§3   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
%3   4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) The installation of a financial management system and a monitoring and evaluation system
must be completed and key staff recruited as a condition of effectiveness; and
(ii) The draft Project Implementation Manual must be finalized and approved by the Association
as a condition of effectiveness.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
s     1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D     2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Jane C. Hopkins              Jean-Paul Chausse              Hasan A. Tuluy
Team Leader                  Sector Manager                Country Director



36
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MoRnitoliqg &
hi00Serarcy of Objcivs           :      Keyt; PefraneIdicators0'  2  Critial      upt 0;0 Wions 00
Reduce.poverty and improve the                                  *   Poverty Profile           *   Political stability
Reduce poverty and Improve the    *   Incidence of rural poverty                 *   Annual UNDP Report        *   Successful development and
living conditions and productive  *   Human development indicators               *   Regular country monitoring    implementation of requisite sector
potential of the rural population                                                                                   strategies
P0rogram   Prpose: -ii              Zud-ofrogram  Indicator:                    Prga   repor0l ts:               (from : :Purposet0 to  o)
Sustainable improvement in the    *   Increase in household incomes at all socio-  *   Participatory evaluation  *   Government maintains strong
productive capacity of rural resources  economic levels                               surveys                       commitment to decentralized rural
(natural, physical, human, financial)                                                                               development
and the emergence of a more dynamic                                              *   CVGT annual activities and
local economy through empowered    *   Improvement in the status of the natural       budget reports           *   Support for public and private
rural communities leading their own   resource base (soil fertility, vegetative cover, ...)                        technology generation and transfer
local development process                                                        *   Project reporting              maintained and improved
*   Increase in yields of basic food and cash crops
Program Phasing:                                                                 *   Baseline impact evaluation
Phase 1: Local organizations and  *   Evolution towards sustainable land use patterns  studies
institutional mechanisms established/
strengthened and refined          *   Increase in the % of the rural population
benefiting from access to basic services
Phase 2: Accelerated emergence of
representative and participatory rural  *   Evolution in the volume and diversity of local
municipalities and increased local     investment funding sources
economic growth
Phase 3: Program consolidation and   *   Evolution in the diversity, quality and cost of
transition to a sustainable system of  services provided at local level
fiscal transfers
* Rural municipalities established with successful
mechanisms for sustainable resource
mobilization



37
HiEeroirchy of Objectves                    Ke   efrnsc   nictr                                  oitoringo&            Critical Asumptions
Project Developaent                       Outcome I Impact Indicators:                      Project reports:           (fromObjective to
Objective:Pupu
Participatory local development   *   At least 75 percent of villages targeted in the first phase have   *   CVGT annual activities *   Resources for rural
a large number of iomcplemented by   received capacity building support and have adopted a local  and budget reports       development are available in
a large number of local communities                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a timely and efficient manner
progressively allowing the            development plan.                                      *   Project reporting
emergence of rural municipalities
with support from functioning     *   At least 60 percent of beneficiary villages have representative  *   Participatory evaluation
provincial level coordination forums  and participatory bodies assuming their role in local     surveys
and a facilitating regulatory,        development (planning, execution and management of local
institutional, and fiscal framework at  projects) and have substantially completed their development  *   Beneficiary assessment
the national level.    plan in a satisfactory manner (economically and socially).
*   At least 30 percent of villages have been regrouped into inter-
village development structures that have already undertaken
sub-ptojects in common.
*   75 percent of target provinces have a functioning
representative coordination body (bringing together the state,
representatives of the local community and development
partners) providing sound coordination of available resources
and quality services to support local development efforts.
*   The decentralization law is being implemented satisfactorily.
*   A functioning national forum has made substantial progress
towards harmonization of rural decentralized development
approaches.
*   Plans for decreasing the central administrative structure of the
Project have been developed and partially implemented.



38
Evaluation       C~~~riitica Asnitdu
t; m    #; tAi*$ghwntis 3; nI  0 tV-~~~~~~~~~(ro Ouput t
(1) Local capacity (organizational,    *   # of beneficiary villages with at least 75% of their annual  *   Participatory evaluation  *   Government carries out
managerial, financial, and          investment plan satisfactorily completed (quantity and quality)  surveys              commitment to reforms
technical) improved
*   # of representative and participatory CVGT/CIVGT       *   CVGT annual activities  *   Territorial administration and
established, trained and satisfactorily functioning        and budget reports        regional elected Governments
do not interfere in LIF
*   # and type of beneficiaries having received literacy training    *   Project reporting  funding and operation
(2) Local investments realized and  (2) Local investment fund                                                            0   Effectiveness of training and
sustainably managed                                                                                                       awareness programs on
*   75% of local investments realized are technically sound and                          decentralization and
cost effectively produced                                                            participatory processes
a   Local banks and financial
institutions are available to
channel LIF funds
(3) Institutional capacity built at  (3) Institutional capacity building                                                 a   Availability of counterpart
provincial and national levels for                                                                                        funding
decentralized rural development   *   # of representative and participatory provincial coordination
committees established, trained and fumctioning                                  a   Local development plans
*   Provincial coordination committees                                                                                       reflect a transparent and
established and/or revitalized  a   # of service providers trained and 'in-demand'                                       participatory process
*   Capacity of service providers  *  At least 75% of the villages covered by the project have
strengthened                       received sound capacity building support
*   A functioning communication &    *   # of national thematic working groups functioning effectively
knowledge sharing network          to build and share knowledge on approaches to decentralized
between local, provincial and      rural development
national level established
*   % of stakeholders (NGOs, donors, CCTP, CVGT, ministries)
satisfied with the quality and accessibility of information
services provided/managed by the project



39
Hierarchy of Objectrvcs      ~Key Performance Indicators                               Monitoring &-
Hierarchy of Objectivgs                       Key Performan:ee Indleators                           Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
)utput from each component:                            Output Indicators:                            Project reports:             (from Outputs to
Ou.t                                           ..Objective)
(4) Land tenure pilot study         (4) Land tenure pilot operation                                                              PCU at national and
provincial levels provide
*   A practical methodological guide   *   Heightened awareness of the constraints and possible                                  timely review and response
(toolbox) for securing land tenure  solutions to tenure security at the provincial and national                              to CVGT annual investment
developed                           levels                                                                                   plans
*   A functioning forum established for *   % of stakeholders within pilot zones with a perception of                        *   World Bank provides
building knowledge and sharing      increased tenure security.                                                               sufficient resources for
experiences on approaches to tenure                                                                                          project supervision
security
e   Decentralized decision
*   A national strategy / action plan for                                                                                        making processes used
land tenure security drafted
(5) Administration, monitoring and    (5) Project management and monitoring                                                  *   Informed choice of
coordination of project                                                                                                       investments made by
*   Decrease in the time lag between CVGT contract and                                      communities
*   The administrative capacity to       disbursement of annual investment fund
manage a national coverage, 'faire-                                                                                      *   Availability of local
faire' program                  *   # of service provider contracts satisfactorily completed within                          enterprises to execute
the given time and budget frame                                                         works
*   A functioning information system
effectively used for project    *   Decrease in the ratio of administrative costs to local
management and monitoring           investment
purposes                                                                                                 __.



40
Moaitoriu ~ Moii po&
Prjc   omoet I SDubDIcomponent:    ;   Inlputs    det for ea                             Prjc reports            (rom Compone ts oOutpts
(1) Local capacity building                        (US$ ,000,000)   (% of total)      *   CVGT annual activities
*   Organizational and management support              13.5            11.7                and budget reports
*   Technical support
*   Literacy training
*   Promotion of nutrition and health education
(including efforts to prevent AIDS/HIV)
(2) Local investment fund for demand driven socio-     54.8            47.7
economic infrastructure and productive assets
(3) Institutional capacity building for decentralized
rural development at provincial and national
level
*   Support for provincial coordination (training,
equipment, operating costs)
*   Training of services providers (private and public)  29.9          26.0
*   Support to the national program for decentralized
rural development (studies, impact evaluation,
workshops, thematic working groups, equipment)
*   Information, environmental education and
communication
(4) Land tenure pilot study                            4.3             3.7
(5) Administration, monitoring and coordination of     12.4           10.8
project



41
Annex 2: Project Description
A. Introduction
The National Program for Decentralized Rural Development (PNDRD) is fully consistent with the
Government's overriding policy objective of reducing poverty. In pursuit of this objective, the PNDRD
will implement a participatory and decentralized strategy to improve the provision of services and
infrastructure to the rural population and to help develop the productive potential of the rural sector, while
preserving the environment. It will promote the devolution of responsibilities to rural communities under
the Government's decentralization policy, which has been recognized as an essential element for
stimulating development by placing full responsibility at the local level for the management of local
development and of the natural resources essential for that development. It will contribute to the effective
implementation of the national strategy for rural decentralization which is intended, through a gradual and
consensus-based process, to organize people into rural municipalities. These rural municipalities will be
endowed with representative and participatory bodies that will have the capacity and the resources to
plan, execute and manage local affairs related to the management of their natural resources, delivery of
socio-economic goods and services, and the promotion of productive activities.
The success of this operation will depend in part on the capacity of the PNGT to extend its activities and
increase its impact on rural poverty without compromising the quality of the participatory process or
interfering with efforts to enhance the institutional maturity of communities. To this end, the Project will
be based on a strategy that will: (i) strengthen decentralization policy by transferring resources and
responsibilities to the communities and gradually transferring the intervention unit for development
programs from the village level to the rural municipalities; (ii) undertake training and capacity building
activities for communities and for operators providing services to those communities; (iii) encourage the
contracting out of work and services; and (iv) help participants already active in decentralized and
participatory rural development to extend the scope of their efforts, harmonize their approaches and
improve the quality of their work.
B. General description of the Program
The PNDRD will be an active instrument for preparing and implementing rural decentralization. The
scope of the task, the institutional challenges of the reforms underway, and the necessarily gradualist
approach to capitalize on national experience have led the Government to formulate a 15-year national
program (2001 to 2015) divided into three phases of five years each (see Detailed Program Description
below). It is planned that: (i) during the first phase, two-thirds of the 8,000 villages in Burkina Faso will
be covered by the PNDRD with the CBRDP itself contributing direct support to some 2,000 villages; and
(ii) all villages in the country will be covered by the end of the second phase. The three phases of the
PNDRD are described below:



42
Phas e 1: R Suprfor vilg ognztion an .th¢  e     7 emrec of deenraized T  CCrural developme7t 
By tenf  th       phae h wNRlillave hleto velop the capacity of rural inhabitants to
canage their own resources in a sustainable, equitabl and productive manner and it will havee met their
basic infrastructw-e + needs. The PNDRJ wil also have made a   significant contribution to the debate over
rua  uiia ntttos h tranfe of rsposblitiesto40 rualmnicipalities,t fisca decentralizain
and participatoly and,decentralized management of village and municipal assets. By the end of the first
-Ana'ement m=chanisms, and some will be ready to apply for rural munwicipalitystatus;
The provinces and, th                                                           role in
provincial plnngadilsresormfrebtganhron gappioaches and
*  A te ntinalleel,th vaios pogamsan prjets il besuficenly aroniedtomake them
usefl tools for implementing   decentralized naional ruraldevelpmentpoliyandto make a
Duin  hescodphs (2006-2010), rural* muiiaiies w0^itllgadully aeover         kt from  the:uteso
for municipa  gl vestments. Duringsthis second phase, all vilges, ei;therindividuallyorgroupe together
in ruraled duicripalitiesn oil brjec coveredpbyothe Pnts D(with the roject itself covering about4,000) The
proines willt pasoe  supp1- rted of thei PlNning hroeafoer raldteCmmnt-aeural development.
TeProgresive aCBRPproa adopted be Gmovenments: toal depacentralizedi, ral development has the
advanstiutiag ofpt b uilding,aco s Larnd   brnuad nrtyionaloptt  iperatio   will alsojet Amean that the
decniturinalo Cnproces cdingb imLem.ente accring   t Orath one shdule. Thisstpaseof
Monsitutiongald CapacintyBildng,Ln.eueScrt  io   prain  n   rjc   diitain



43
Project Component 1: Local Capacity Building - US$ 11.38 million
This component consists of promotional and training activities, directed at rural communities and their
organizations, including both structured programs and on-the-job training in the form of technical support
for a wide range of community activities. The specific objective of the component is to strengthen the
technical and organizational capacity of the rural population so that they can execute the activities
envisaged under the program, including eventual organization into rural municipalities. It has three sub-
components:
(i) Village level consultations: This sub-component includes all communication, promotion, and
information activities. It aims to disseminate the project's objectives and explain the modalities for
participation in it. The project thus seeks to elicit a demand for participation by villages from
which each year a pool of about 500 candidates can be selected based on the criteria outlined in the
implementation manual. This will ensure that the project is demand driven.
Promotional and information activities will be based on modules developed and tested during the
predecessor project. They include radio announcements and theatrical presentations. Villages are
selected each year as part of the work programming exercise. Selection criteria iiclude: interest,
location, poverty profile, and access to investment funds from other donor and NGO supported
activities. The final list is established in collaboration with the CCTP.
Teams made up of project and/or contractual staff will visit as many of the selected villages as
possible during the dry season (an average of 40 per team) and explain the program in detail to
villagers and traditional authorities. This will allow villagers to get more detailed and tailored
information and obtain direct answers to their questions. The visits seek to mobilize the interests
and participation of villagers and their traditional authorities to organize themselves at the level of
the "terroir," which is a prerequisite for participation in the program. They will explain the process
of establishing a CVGT and identify potential resource persons and local institutions in the village.
This initial contact will take approximately one day per village.
Those villages that have expressed an interest in the establishment of a CVGT will receive a one
day training session on the workings of a CVGT, the election of members, the need for openness
and accountability, etc. After this initial training, the project team returns to the village to observe
the elections of the members of the CVGT, and the formal installation of the CVGT. Upon
establishment of the CVGT they become eligible for more in-depth training and participation in the
investment program.
(ii) CVGT/CIVGT training programs: This sub-component is centered on the organizational,
management and technical skills required for CVGT/CIVGT (and their subcommittees, theComite
d'Action Sp6cifique, CAS) to successfully plan, execute and maintain village level investments.
The training program is started once a village has agreed to establish a CVGT and identified
resource persons. Training modules include: the organization of village assemblies and keeping
records of decisions; obtaining legal recognition for village level organizations; carrying out of
community needs assessments and development plans; sorting out land rights in the process of
community land development planning; accessing financial resources and mobilizing self
contributions; and executing sub-projects (contracting, cash management, record keeping,
monitoring). These one-week training sessions will be provided by third parties hired by the
Project.
An important literacy training program will be undertaken to accompany the establishment and
strengthening of village level organizations, as this was found to be a major determinant of



44
successful village level organizations by the Social Assessment carried out during preparation of
the Project. Basic literacy training will be given to resource persons identified by the village.
These include the village notables and those identified as the most dynamic. For each cluster of 2-4
villages, several volunteers will receive additional training as trainers. These trainers will then
provide literacy training to interested villagers during the dry season (from January through May)
each year. This module follows already established and tested literacy programs underway in
Burkina Faso. The village trainers will be compensated for the literacy training activities carried
out in their own or neighboring villages. The basic literacy training will be carried out over a
longer period of time and tests will be taken to assess progress.
H1V/AlDS has become a threat to the country's long-term development. A specific HIV/AIDS
training and awareness raising program will therefore be put in place. This training will have as
objective to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS and provide information on prevention, care and the
identification of specific interventions related to the alleviation and prevention of the disease that
are eligible for project financing. These interventions will be included in the village development
plan. The creation of a specific CAS for HIV/AIDS will be supported in each village in which the
Project intervenes. These CAS will help identify and implement activities eligible for funding
under the Project.
Upon the start-up of the investment program, technical training will be provided tailored to the
proposed investment program and existing capacities. A large number of modules have been tested
during the predecessor project and new ones will be developed on the basis of identified needs and
as the investment program evolves. The technical training/support program will be a continuous
activity throughout the whole duration of the project.
(iii) Technical support to community organizations: This sub-component includes the cost of on-
site technical support provided to the CVGT and the CAS and consists of contracts entered into by
the Project with various internediaries (which can be private contractors, NGOs or Govemrnent
technical services). It corresponds to functions carried out by the provincial project teams under
the predecessor project (PNGT), and which will now be increasingly delegated to third parties on
the basis of existing capacity. To provide these technical services, the Project will enter into signed
agreements with line ministries, NGOs, regional project agencies, and/or private consulting groups.
These service providers will support community organizations in preparing sub-project proposals
on the basis of the standards prepared by the Project (referentiel technique), selection of contractors
or qualified local workmen, and supervision of the execution of the sub-project. They will also
help the beneficiaries in setting up maintenance programs and mechanisms for cost-recovery.
These service providers will also provide infortnation on prograrn execution to the Project's
provincial teams so that release of tranches for the investment program coincide with needs.
Project Component 2: Local Investment Fund (LIF) - US$ 54.79 million
LIF Mechanisms
The local investment fund will have two windows: one for financing village and inter-village investments,
and another for financing critical provincial-level infrastructure benefiting a large number of villages.
The village/inter-village window will provide resources to villages or groups of villages in the form of a
matching grant for financing their Annual Investment Plan (AIP). CVGT and/or CIVGT will identify and
prioritize these investments on the basis of participatory diagnoses, and will make a counterpart
contribution to finance their AIP, the amount and nature of which is defined in the Project



45
Implementation Manual.  Finally, they will have responsibility for sub-project execution (local
contracting) and management (operations and maintenance).
The financial envelope provided will be calculated on the basis of a per-capita amount of some US$ 3 -
5 per capita per year. This amount may vary on the basis of field experience, depending on the village's
capacity to make effective use of the resources provided to them.
Investments selected by villagers and their representatives will cover a variety of sectors but they will be
subject to a negative list. After a simple check for procedural regularity, conformity withsectoral policies
(school and health center planning maps, for example), and receipt of the beneficiary contribution, the
funds will be disbursed into an account in a local financial institution opened in the name of the CVGT or
the CIVGT.
The CVGTs and the CIVGTs will be responsible for executing the sub-projects and may recruit
contractors and workers for this purpose. The Project, however, will provide contract management
support through personnel recruited for this purpose and through the provincial Government technical
services, with which protocols will be signed. The beneficiaries will also be able to recruit outside
technical expertise for supervising the works (execution and acceptance). The funds to pay for such
services (up to 10 percent of the total investment cost) are included in the investment budget covered by
the LIF. Transparency in the selection of priority investments, the awarding of contracts and the
management of funds and works sites will be assured by greater community control (availability of
information, contributions by beneficiaries, and works committees) and by ex-post supervision organized
by the national program coordinator.
In the case of the provincial window, arbitration among potential sub-projects will be conducted by a
provincial technical coordination committee (CCTP), which will include representatives of beneficiary
groups. Sub-project management will be delegated to the provincial operational team of the Project, on
behalf of the province. Once the province becomes an effectively decentralized entity, it will take over
sub-project management itself.
Eligible investments
The program will provide partial support through investment grants, the level of which will be determined
in the procedures manual, to productive activities of a collective nature or those that promise positive
social or environmental spillover effects. In this way, the program will make it easier for socially
desirable investments to secure funding from the decentralized financial systems (DFS) by reducing the
lending risk. The program will not, however, provide direct financing for activities of a private or
commercial nature. On the other hand, in order to make the DFS more accessible to beneficiary groups,
the LIF may finance investments to expand or reinforce existing micro-finance networks. The specific
procedures are set out in detail in the LIF procedures manual.
Finally, in exceptional cases with a social welfare component, the LIF may, at the request of the grass-
roots community, be used to finance 100 percent of the investment cost of a productive asset for the
neediest groups to help them earn a minimum income. In no case will such exceptional financing be
allowed to disrupt business for the DFS.
Any sub-project that is not included on the negative list and that meets the eligibility criteria set out in the
procedures manual may be financed and managed locally (by the beneficiaries). The principal categories
of village and inter-village sub-projects are as follows:
a. Soil and water conservation;



46
b. Reforestation and forest management;
c. Structural support for improving animal husbandry;
d. Structural support for improving agricultural production;
e. Water supply infrastructure;
f. Feeder road improvement/infrastructure;
g. Social and economic infrastructure;
h. Renewable energy;
i. Nutrition and health education;
j. AIDS/HIV prevention and mitigation activities;
k. Support for expanding the network of decentralized financial institutions;
1. Training and action research.
Organizational Mechanisms
The medium-term goal of PNDRD is to construct representative and participatory rural municipalities that
will serve as pillars of local development. In pursuing this objective, the program has adopted a
progressive approach that takes into account the social and cultural dimensions underlying the unity and
legitimacy of the village/terroir and its mode of governance, the historical bonds linking communities
within and between villages (market, mosque, marriage) and the demands of development and of the
nation-state, in light of which the village by itself is not a suitable level of organization for planning and
for state decentralization.
Three flexible operational mechanisms will be presented to villages as a means of becoming familiar with
municipal and local development responsibilities. Participatory diagnoses will be conducted in the
villages, leading to the prioritization of needs. This diagnoses will serve to highlight the degree to which
villages face common problems and show the advantages of villages grouping together (in terrns of
pooling resources to tackle common problems and designing more coherent investment strategies).
Mechanism 1: The villages meet their own individual resource needs and make no effort
to create alliances among themselves. Each village submits a local community-based
land management/local development plan and works through its own CVGT.
Mechanism 2: The villages retain their own individual land management plans, but
decide to group together (associate themselves) for a specific investment (school or
health center, for example) and to this end they create an umbrella CIVGT in addition to
their individual CVGTs.
Mechanism 3: Either spontaneously or on the basis of experience, villages decide to
form a more stable grouping and produce a joint local development plan for the entire
cluster of villages, to be managed by the CIVGT. The CIVGT, in this case, has the
power to arbitrate investment proposals within and between villages and has general sub-
project management responsibility (even if it decides to transfer this function to particular
CVGTs). This third mechanism should give rise to a pre-municipal entity that, if
experience and criteria so indicate, could request the status of a rural municipality.
These three mechanisms are not necessarily sequential, in the sense that one or more villages could decide
to "skip" a stage, to disengage from certain groupings/associations or even to backtrack and revert to
earlier mechanisms. It is an extremely flexible approach, intended to allow villages to learn on their own,
first hand, about municipal management procedures and to experiment with them without the constraint
of imposed alliances and commitments.  The process of decentralization and of forming rural
municipalities should emerge the stronger because it will be firmly rooted in participation and consensus.



47
Project Component 3: Institutional Capacity Building - US$ 26.52 million
This component includes the costs of training, equipping and operating the field teams (largely on a
contract basis) and other service providers with whom the Project has signed agreements (protocols with
Government technical services and DFS; contracts with NGOs and consulting firms, etc.). It also
includes the cost of activities in support of rural decentralization at the local, provincial and national
levels (strengthening institutional, human and financial capacities; piloting the implementation of fiscal
and financial decentralization; other studies and training).
This component will revitalize the coordination committees at the provincial level and will pave the way
for negotiating the integration of various programs into a national strategy. It will support the activities of
the CND and the DGCL in terms of planning for decentralized and participatory rural development and
the gradual establishment of rural municipalities. It will also include activities in support of the project
teams, the contracting of services (training for the project teams and for service and equipment providers)
and the functions of coordinating, funding and promoting decentralized and participatory rural
development.
The support program for the CND and the MATS is intended to: (i) lay the foundation for participatory
rural decentralization, the leaders of which will be responsible to the beneficiaries and the representatives
of the various segments of rural society, consistent with its social and historical context, and (ii)
strengthen the capacities of the CND and the DGCL for guiding and implementing this decentralization.
The proposed program is organized as follows:
Pilot project: This involves testing the social, economic, fiscal and institutional viability of five or
six rural municipalities, especially in the following areas: fiscal and financial decentralization (a
tax-base census, managing the fiscal cycle), the feasibility of transferring responsibilities,
representation mechanisms for municipal councils, participatory management of municipal assets.
The resources for municipal investment will come from the local investment fund
Training, information, communication: The creation of 350 rural municipalities over a period of
two or three years poses a major challenge. The CBRDP will give its support to training elected
officials of the new rural municipalities by offering immediate training in priority areas and by
supporting the preparation of municipal training plans. Training modules relating to
decentralization will be taught in Project villages and will help make decentralization effective in
rural areas.
Supportfor rural decentralization planning: Support to the CND and the DGCL for carrying out
studies and action-research on specific aspects of rural decentralization where a better
understanding is needed.
Administrative support: Support to the CND and the DGCL in terms of human and material
resources and operating assistance, will be provided to help it carry out the activities described
above (approximately 8 percent of planned activity costs).
Project Component 4: Land Tenure Pilot Operation - US$ 3.82 million
This component is intended to improve the stability and fairness of tenure for all users of rural land, and
thereby help to: (i) foster equity and social peace, (ii) encourage investment and raise agricultural
productivity, (iii) enhance the preservation and rehabilitation of natural resources, and (iv) introduce
decentralization.



48
It will complement other experiments in securing land tenure that are already under way or in preparation.
It will be conducted in six test sites representing the principal systems of land use and the ownership
problems associated with them. The objective of the pilot phase is to define and propose, on the basis of
concrete experimentation in the field, an institutional, legal, technical and methodological framework for
stable and equitable land tenure in rural areas.
This intervention will be based on supporting participatory management of land resources so that upon
request, and in a gradual and cautious manner, customary land rights and transactions and other
arrangements currently found in rural areas can be formalized. At the end of the pilot operation, the
component will have produced the following:
* A practical methodological guide (toolbox) for use in improving the security of rural land tenure;
*  A documentation system for information generated by the PNGT2 pilot operations;
* A preliminary national action plan for securing stable and fair rural land tenure; and
* A preliminary program of land tenure interventions for implementation in phases II and III of the
PNDRD.
Project Component 5: Program Administration, Monitoring and Coordination - US$ 10.94 million
This component includes: (i) support for the national coordination forum for the PNDRD and (ii) support
for the coordination and management of the Project.
Program (PNDRD) coordination.
The PNDRD is a national strategy involving a decentralized and participatory approach to rural
development as outlined in the Government's Policy Letter. This national strategy serves as a frame of
reference for the various programs and projects for fostering local development in rural grass-roots
communities. One of its central objectives is to help harmonize the approaches to these different
programs and projects so as to make more efficient use of available resources and to achieve swifter and
more effective national coverage for poverty reduction. The Government's Policy Letter on Decentralized
Rural Development provides the details of the strategy as well as on the role and functions of the
different players and how these will change overtime. A national monitoring mechanism for assessing and
capitalizing on all these initiatives in decentralized rural development will be created.
Project coordination/management:
The national Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for coordinating all activities under the
program, in particular for providing funding to beneficiaries within the established deadlines, monitoring
and evaluating the program at the national level, managing studies and the provision of services, and
drawing lessons from the various national experiments in decentralized and participatory rural
development.
Monitoring and evaluation is an important activity of the Project and includes setting up an integrated
system of management and monitoring for Project implementation (real-time monitoring of physical and
financial execution, technical and financial audits) as well as a system for monitoring and evaluating its
impact (reference studies on the initial situation, impact studies, and support missions).
D. Implementation procedures
The operation to be financed by the IDA credit over the next five years (the Project) will represent Phase I
of the PNDRD. Financial support from Project will be provided in all provinces, either directly or



49
indirectly through supplemental funding for operations already under way. In all cases, the approach
adopted will be coordinated with development partners active in the target provinces. The monitoring
will seek to ensure, as far as possible, that the work is performed by existing operators, with an emphasis
on subcontracting, harmonizing approaches and institutionalizing them in decentralized structures.
The provincial role
Over the longer term the objective is to ensure that there are durable provincial structures that can take
charge of coordinating and organizing participatory and decentralized rural development. At the end of
the first phase, the province will be responsible for: (i) coordination at the provincial level, (ii)
coordinating activities of the different projects or programs, (iii) contract management for certain
activities (service provision, large-scale projects), (iv) strengthening the capacities of service providers
(State, NGO or private services), (v) support to beneficiaries, and (vi) monitoring and evaluating the
impact of activities.
In order to carry out the activities described above, the Project will support the establishment of
provincial coordination committees (cadres de concertation), chaired by the High Commissioner, which
will be responsible for coordinating and harmonizing all community-based land management and local
development efforts within the province. These coordination committees will include representatives of
the public services, the projects, NGOs and beneficiaries (villagers, committees and associations, elected
officials, civil society). They will meet for these purposes at least three times a year. The coordination
committees will serve as forums for reviewing and discussing land management and local development
plans.
Daily management of the Project's provincial activities will be in the hands of a small operational unit.
Given the diversity and fluidity of situations, the provincial operational units will take different forms,
depending on whether the province has a major operator in place or whether it lacks established operators.
Provinces lacking established operators.
In provinces where the Project will be the principal player, a project operational unit (Equipe
Operationnelle, EO) will be put in place. The EO may cover one or several provinces, depending on their
size. The composition of the EO will depend on local circumstances. The EO will support local
development planning through the recruitment of service providers (private operators and NGOs) who
will be trained for this purpose. It will also provide services directly to rural communities. This strategy
will allow the role of the EO to be gradually reduced as the number and capacity of the service providers
increases. By the end of the first phase, the Project will be able to scale back its direct involvement and to
focus its effort on quality control and monitoring.
Provinces with a major operator
In these provinces, the Project will help to set up a coordination committee. The Project will work in
synergy with the operator already in place, providing supplementary financing to help the operator extend
the coverage of its activities, to the extent that the operator accepts a common platform, summarized as
follows:
*  Acceptance of a single coordination and harmonization committee (CCTP) with beneficiary
representation
*  Acceptance of a single representative organization at the village/inter-village level
*  Acceptance of the principle of local execution/management of sub-projects
*  Acceptance of the long-term goal of supporting the emergence of rural municipalities



50
* Acceptance of the principle of shared monitoring and evaluating on the basis of common
indicators in order to harmonize efforts effectively
E. Project Organization
Program Coordination
At the national level, the program supports the implementation of the National Program for Decentralized
Rural Development (PNDRD) elaborated in the Government's Policy Letter. As part of this strategy, a
national coordination forum will be put in place to harmonize the approaches supported by all rural
development projects/programs. No approach is favored in the strategy and the forum will play an
important role in the exchange of ideas and experiences. The medium-term goal is the adoption of best
practices by all donors and the evolution towards a single national program for decentralized rural
development with a common M&E framework.
Project Coordination and Management
As with all projects operating in Burkina Faso, an inter-ministerial steering committee will be established.
The role of this committee will be to review and approve annual work programs and budgets. The
approved work program and associated budgets and procurement plans will be submitted to IDA for non-
objection after approval by the Steering Committee.
Day to day management of the project will rest with the national Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The
PCU's main responsibilities will be to: manage the work program at the national level, manage the donors
contributions to the project in accordance with the signed agreements with each donor, ensure that funds
are made available to the beneficiaries in a timely manner, carry out procurement, provide technical
support to the provincial teams during the start-up phase of the project, and monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the work program and its impact. In addition, the PCU will organize workshops at the
national level and regional level in support of the national coordination framework. At the regional level
these workshops will be organized in broad collaboration with the Regional Departments of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (DREP).
The PCU will manage specific time bound activities for donors using contractual staff/organizations that
are hired for a duration not exceeding the length of the agreement between the PCU, the donor and
Government. This will avoid an increase in staffing beyond the minimum necessary for the PCU to carry
out its mandate.  Examples of such activities are renewable energy, environmental education,
decentralization and land tenure security. These activities will be executed by others, under a contractual
arrangement, yet financial management and overall follow-up responsibility will be lodged with the PCU.
At the level of the provinces, Provincial Technical Coordinating Committees (CCTP) will be established.
These Committees will include representatives from the provincial level of Govermnent, donors and
NGOs active in the zone, and beneficiaries. They will be chaired by the Provincial High Commissioner.
The mandate of the CCTPs will include the coordination and supervision of donor and Government
funded activities at the provincial level and to ensure that these activities properly respond to the
development priorities for each province. The project will provide operating support and basic equipment
to enable the CCTPs to carry out their mandate in all provinces where the project or other donors, that
have agreed to a common approach to community development, intervene.
The Project will establish operational teams (EO) in 19 provinces. These operational teams will cover the
26 provinces where the Project intervenes directly and will consist of 2-4 professional staff plus 1-2
support staff whose primary responsibilities will be to (i) support the CCTP in its review of village/inter-



51
village or province level development plans, (ii) enter into contracts with and supervise service providers
that have been hired by the project to execute specific activities (training of beneficiaries, assist
beneficiaries in the identification, proposal formulation and execution of the small scale projects, and in
the identification and proposal formulation of larger scale projects), and (iii) implement the monitoring
and evaluation system. Once a sufficient number of service providers has been trained in each province,
the EO will be downsized.
Changes in Staffing during Implementation
After the first two years of project implementation, the functions of the PCU will retrench to its core
responsibilities of national coordination, financial management, procurement support for the larger scale
projects and monitoring and evaluation. The technical support activities will be reduced to a minimum
and be targeted to donor funded special initiatives (e.g. traditional energy). As a result, staffing at the
PCU will be substantially reduced. Activities for which the PCU lacks the required expertise or for which
the expertise is needed on an ad-hoc basis will be contractualized (short-term technical support). The
function of internal auditor/controller will be contracted in the beginning of the project as the timing and
scope of the work cannot be carried out properly by one person, and building up a team within the PCU
will not be cost-effective. As mentioned above, the staffing of the EOs will be reduced once sufficient
capacity exists in each province. The organizational chart is attached below.
Information Flows
All information flows in two directions in order to avoid that the provider of information feels
disconnected from the user. All sub-project execution and impact data are collected at the community
level by the beneficiaries themselves. In order to do so, they will receive training from the project. The
data collected by the beneficiaries is analyzed and aggregated by the EO and made available to the
members of the CCTP and the DREP. At this level, the information is used to plan the work program
(supervision, approval of new investment budgets, etc.), improve coordination between development
projects, NGOs and public agencies, and monitor development impact. A copy of the report is provided
to the beneficiaries for information and feedback. After initial compilation and analysis by the EO, the
data is aggregated and further analyzed at the national level by the monitoring and evaluation staff at the
PCU and included in regular progress reports.



52
Project Organizational Chart
National Program for Decentralized
Rural Development
Other donor                             Project Steering Committee                             Other donor
funded                                                                                         funded
projects                                                                                       projects
National Coordination Unit
National Coordinator (I)
Secretary to Coordinator (I)
Information Technology Specialist (1)
Secretaries/Data Entry (4)
Reproduction Assistant (I)
Receptionist (1)
Librarian (1)
General Office Assistant (1)
Financial Management                  Technical Support Unit                       M&E Unit
Financial Administrator (I)              Training Specialist (I)                 Socio-Economic
Accountants (2)                  Local Planning Specialist (I)               Monitoring (1)
Human Resource                 Village Investments Specialist (1)           Ecological Impact
Administrator (1)               Coordination and Collaboration                Monitoring (1)
Drivers (3 at PCU & 4                      Specialist (1)                     Institutional Impact
provincial)                      Environmental Training                    Monitoring (I)
Specialist (1)
Communications Specialist (1)
Renewable Energy Specialist (1)
Provincial Team           Provincial Team            Provincial Team
Provincial
Coordinator (1)
Technical
Specialists (2-3)
Secretary /
data entry (I)
Driver (I)



53
Flow Chart for the Local Investment Fund
National Forum for Decentralized Rural Development
Project Steering Committee
Submission and approval of
the Annual Work Program
and Budget
National Coordination Unit
submission
of provincial
program
Provincial               CPAT
Province                                 Team                  (CCTP)            a i
contracts
Flow of Funds
Contracts
Service             Local               between
Providers          Develop-              Project
ment                  and
Strengthening of                    Plans               CVGT /
Local Capacities                                         CIVGT
Inter-village                 CIVGT
4          | ~~~CVGT    | |CVGT  | [CVGT I                                CVGT      l
Proect
Identification                                                           C       I
B    B                                                         a    a
Implementation of sub-project: beneficiaries and/or service provider (civil works
contractor, architects, engineers, studies, supervision, support, etc.)



54
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ProLectaCostl                                            Foreign TFotai
.__._______________________::__________    (US  million)j    (USSmilloio)    (         mll iow
1. Local Capacity Building                             11.02           352           11.38
2. Local Investmnent Fund (LIF)                         9.31           5.48          54.79
3. Institutional Capacity Building (support & advisory
services)                                           21.80            4.71          26.52
4. Land Tenure Pilot Operations                         3.13           0.69           3.82
5. Program Administration, Monitoring and Coordination  8.66           2.28           10.94
Total Baseline Cost                                    93.93          13.52          107.45
Physical Contingencies                                 0.84           0.55           0.90
Price Contingencies                                    5.67           0.83           6.50
Ttal Proe  Cosio ts                 ;100.45                           14.40           145
Total Fibancing Rquired                                100A          14.40         :1185
Pr     tost B                             Local          Foreign          Total
i.                                                        ....    :     . i, 0 ;_ . .$il_lion)  iLS$ milio    (US$ millin
1. Works                                                0.49             0.12            0.61
2. Goods (vehicles and equipment)                       1.82             2.23            4.05
3. Services                                            14.35             3.54            17.89
4. Training                                            12.00             0.15            12.15
5. Local Investment Fund (LIF) Sub-Projects            49.31             5.48           54.79
6. Operating Costs (support to project
implementation)                                      13.17             1.72           14.89
7. Operating Costs (project management)                 2.76             0.28            3.05
8. Physical contingencies                               0.84             0.55            0.90
9. Price Contingencies                                  5.67             0.83            6.50
Total ProetCost                                       1004              14.40           114.85
TotalFancing Required                                 100A4    ________r_4.40           114_85



55
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis
1. Introduction
Decentralization in Burkina has a long and arduous history. The first, closely controlled,
municipalities were created under the colonial regime in 1955. None of the various attempts at
consolidating local organizations succeeded, for any substantial length of time, in institutionalizing
local elected councils and mayors. The process started anew in 1993 with a referendum on the
Constitution that proclaimed decentralization as the country's mode of territorial organization and
management; and with the creation of the CND in charge of conceptualizing the process and
advising the Government.
Five years passed before the National Assembly voted in favor of the Textes d'Orientation sur la
Decentralisation (TOD) in 1998. The TOD set up the fundamental principles guiding the
organization and implementation of decentralization in Burkina Faso. Decentralization, or the right
of decentralized entities to freely manage their own affairs, is intended to become the main axis for
promoting development and democracy.
Burkina Faso currently has 'deconcentrated' public service/administrative structures at the
provincial level (administered by the Haut Commissaire) and at the department level (administered
by the Prefet). 'Decentralized' governance structures are envisioned at the provincial level
(governed by an elected president and provincial council with responsibility to promote provincial
economic and social development) and the urban/rural municipality level (governed by an elected
mayor and municipal/ rural council). An urban municipality is a community of at least ten thousand
people able to mobilize a budget of at least fifteen million FCFA. A rural municipality is defined by
a community of at least five thousand people and the ability to mobilize a budget of five million
FCFA.
Geographic level      Decentralized governance    Deconcentrated administrative
structure                     structure
Province         Elected President and Provincial  Appointed Haut-Commissaire and
Council           Conference des Cadres de la Province
Departmnent                                           Appointed Prefet
Municipality         Elected Mayor and Council
Village                                     Appointed D&legu6 Administratif and
Village Council
Implementation of decentralization is laid out in the TOD as follows: (1) elections for urban
municipalitities will take place no longer than two years after the publication of the TOD (i.e. before
the end of 2000); (2) before 2003, provincial elections must be organized for the totality of the
country; (3) simultaneously, elections for rural municipalities will be organized for existing rural
municipalities (if separate elections are needed, they will be organized before 2005).
Examples of the kind of sectoral responsibilities to be transferred to decentralized levels are given in
Table 1. The responsibilities are allocated between the province and the municipality according to
which is the lowest level with the ability to carry out the task. The transfer of responsibilities must
be accompanied by a transfer of resources, and at least a partial transfer of the technical services.



56
Table 1: Sectoral responsibilities to be transferred to decentralized governance levels
Scto0r0V    V 0;;?:f:    ;0Province                          Municipality
Regional Development Plan (consulted)   Urban Development Plan (consulted)
Land management        Construction and maintenance of rural    Allocation of land (owned &
feeder roads                      administered on behalf of the State)
Environment            Participate in the protection of resources  Communal Environmental Action Plan
Improvement of livestock pathways
Construction and management of health   Construction and management of health
Health                 centers (CSPS)                     centers (CSPS)
Participate in the elaboration of the  Participate in the elaboration of the
health map                        health map
Construction and management of pre-    Construction and management of pre-
Education              school units                       school units
Participate in the school map     Participate in the school map
The Program National de Developpement Rural Decentralise (PNDRD) seeks to strengthen local
governance and sustainably improve the productive capacity of the rural sector through socio-
economic infrastructure investments and capacity building that empower rural communities to lead
their own local development process. Upon completion of the final phase of the PNDRD: (I) local
communities and their representative local Governments will have developed the capability to
identify, implement and manage their own infrastructure investments and service needs, and (2) the
local economy will be more dynamic. For an APL operation such as the PNDRD, detailed economic
analysis is required for the first phase. Operations in the first phase of the PNDRD, however, are
largely directed towards institutional strengthening and provision of basic infrastructure via demand-
driven community funds. They do not lend themselves to quantitative ex-ante cost-benefit and rate
of return calculations. Instead, a qualitative analysis is required to discuss the economic rationale for
undertaking the operation and its benefits and costs.
In the first phase of the Program, the targeting of capacity building and basic services (potable water,
health, education) most needed by the poor will contribute to poverty alleviation, while the choice of
labor-intensive implementation and the use of local entrepreneurs in the provision of these services
will create employment and increase rural income. In turn, better access to health care, education,
roads and markets will raise productivity and increase economic incentives. Thus, along with
capacity building to strengthen the Government's ongoing efforts to achieve fiscal, administrative
and political decentralization, the first phase will pave the way for a more dynamic local economy.
The local investment fund (LIF) will be used mainly for the provision of public goods and services
which justifies the use of public funds to finance the proposed Program. In addition to responding to
the collective desire of the community, productive investments funded under the program must have
a large public element or externality associated with them. The PNDRD will give a strong emphasis
to empowering local communities, local Governments, and other key stakeholders to enable them to
play an increasing role in the identification, design, implementation and management of rural
development projects, and contribute more efficiently to local and national economic growth.



57
2. Analysis of Alternatives
The following alternatives were considered for the program and rejected as being less cost-
effective in reaching the stated program objectives than the design chosen:
*   The traditional approach of integrated rural development keeps the responsibility for
planning and implementation essentially in the hands of central Government. This
approach fails to generate community ownership, thus leading to inferior operation and
maintenance of investments. The coordination and top-down implementation of multiple
small-scale public infrastructure works is generally too complex and suffers from a lack of
adequate and timely information, poor incentives, and inadequate resources. This approach
has typically fallen short of expectations.
*   The traditional approach to environmental management projects also relied on centrally
executed approaches. The environment was viewed as a resource to protect from farmers'
encroachments and State agencies were in charge of implementing conservation strategies.
This approach proved to be limited mainly because Governments did not have the
resources to enforce the laws that were promulgated and because people dependent on the
resources for their livelihoods had not been taken into account.
e   The PNGT was designed as a Community-Based Land Management project and was a
landmark in Burkina for systematizing and developing the Gestion des Terroirs approach.
This new generation of projects placed the resource user at the center of the equation and
was designed to provide incentives for the user to maintain the environment. They focus
on how to sustainably improve agricultural production and productivity. This change in
paradigms (to Community-Based Land Management) has translated into a shift from
conservation strategies towards participatory approaches to natural resource management
with a focus on strengthening the local-level capacity to plan, implement and manage
sustainable rural development. Despite their success, community-based land management
projects suffer from two major problems. First, they have proved difficult to scale-up.
Second, they have not been sustainable because institutional changes (such as fiscal
decentralization and evolution of accountable local Government structures) that improve
the way Government operates have not been introduced. The PNDRD design builds on
these small-scale initiatives, but offers a more systemic means of bringing about
sustainable change on a large scale.
The PNGT design, however, evolved based on internal assessments and lessons learned.
The project team sought solutions to three main limitations: (i) the need to scale up the
project in order to have an aggregate impact on poverty, (ii) the need to increase the total
amount of resources reaching the beneficiaries; and, (iii) the need to improve the allocation
and economic efficiency of investments.
During the mid-term review, four main adjustments to the project design were made; first,
since the participatory approach had proved successful, the project was scaled up to
intervene in more than 400 villages instead of merely a hundred; second, a decision was
made to shift, on a pilot basis, the responsibility for the execution of investment projects
from the PNGT to the beneficiary communities; third, the menu of investment options
offered by the PNGT was broadened so as to include basic infrastructures and, thus, better
respond to community demand; fourth, a new framework for coordination at provincial
level was successfully tested.  In the course of preparation, further design adjustments
were made. It became clear that to extend the project to a substantial portion of the



58
country's rural areas, while avoiding the build up of a cumbersome project executing
agency, will require other changes: (i) the PNGT's role would need to shift from direct
execution to a delegation of that execution to intermediaries; and (ii) the direct execution of
projects by beneficiaries would have to be generalized;
The AGETIP-type approach relies on contractors to realize economies of scale in executing
large, standardized, types of infrastructure. However, the very speed and efficiency in
realizing such large-scale, top down infrastructure is particularly ill-suited for demand-
driven, small-scale, numerous and varied rural infrastructure investments in local
communities. In addition, AGETIP does not foster local empowerment and capacity
building and, therefore, limits community ownership and the long-term sustainability of
investments.
3. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
The PNDRD will increase the level, and change the structure, of public investments in rural areas
with potentially large long-term benefits, both public and private. There will be a direct impact,
varying over time, on at least three groups: the central Government; local communities and
beneficiaries. Although the demand-driven and innovative nature of the program is not conducive to
ex-ante quantitative analysis, a monitoring and evaluation system is being designed to provide the
data needed to track progress and measure impact. The qualitative ex-ante analysis that follows,
suggests positive fiscal impact and cost recovery over the long term, provided complementary
investments are made to improve the productivity and economic opportunities of a primarily
agriculturally-based rural population.
Central Government
Through borrowing from IDA and IFAD, the central Government will increase the level of public
spending for the provision of public goods (roads, basic education and health facilities) at the local
level. Cost recovery based on increased economic activity and tax collection at the local level is
likely to be limited in the short-term. Tax income on inputs for LIF investments and from
incremental economic activities will be small and the low initial income level of rural households
precludes any short-term prospects for cost-recovery. In the long run, the increased productivity of
rural assets and a better educated, healthier rural workforce, will increase the capacity of the rural
population to contribute to tax income. In the absence of a head or income tax, this will occur largely
through increased expenditures and hence increased VAT revenues. Complementary investments to
improve the agricultural productivity and economic opportunities of a primarily agriculturally-based
rural population will be needed to ensure such cost recovery.
In comparison with alternative approaches, involving similar levels of public investment, the fiscal
impact of PNDRD on the central Government will be minimal. Under the PNDRD, unit investment
costs will be lower since local beneficiaries in control of their own budgets are more likely to choose
the most cost-effective investment option. Also, for a given investment scheme, the willingness of
beneficiaries to contribute to the cost will reduce the central Government's outlays. In comparison,
the recurrent costs that would have been borne by central Government under alternative approaches,
will now be paid at the local level. Decentralization will result in an improvement in the efficiency
of public expenditure, which should reduce the strain on the central budget and increase the chances
for sustainability. In the long run, the economic benefits of PNDRD should largely offset the initial
negative impact on the central Government's budget.



59
Local Government
Fiscal decentralization shifts resources from the central Government to the local Government. The
PNDRD will substantially increase the local investment budget and improve the local capacity to
manage such resources.  Sustainable local revenue generation (at the household and local
Government level) will depend on an increase in the productive capacity of local populations which,
in the case of rural Burkina Faso, will require an increase in agricultural productivity through
technological innovations and improved market (output, input, credit) access.
Beneficiaries
Given the demand-driven nature of the program, the financial impact on beneficiary communities is
expected to be positive. Better access to water and health will increase productivity and thus
financial rewards; better access to roads by improving market access will also boost financial
inflows to local beneficiaries. Labor-intensive implementation of basic infrastructure will also
increase income through additional employment. In the case of education and, to some degree health
services, the financial benefits will be realized in the long run.
Beneficiary communities will contribute, about 20 percent (in kind or/and cash) of the total
investment cost of basic infrastructure sub-projects. Such a contribution is in line with current
practices for construction of basic rural infrastructure under ongoing traditional projects. It is high
enough to provide incentives for increased ownership and sustainability of sub-projects, while being
sufficiently modest to encourage participation by poor communities. The average investment is
expected to be less than US$ 10,000. Beneficiaries will assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance of basic infrastructure funded under the LIF, in line with current policies and practices.
Corresponding recurrent costs to the beneficiary communities will usually be modest, around 5
percent annually of the investment cost for the average investment.
Contribution to productive investments will be substantially higher than for basic infrastructure and
may reach, or exceed 50%. In addition to assuming full responsibility for operation and maintenance
of these activities, cost recovery at community level will be sought to help promote sustainability,
generation of resources at the local level, and better accountability.
4. Cost-Benefit Analysis
The demand-driven and adaptable nature of this program does not lend itself to standard cost-benefit
or least-cost analysis. However, the economic rationale of the project remains strong and it is
possible to demonstrate that (a) the PNDRD will generate substantial economic benefits; and (b)
compared with alternative approaches, the PNDRD improves cost-efficiency and sustainability.
Economic benefits: The impact of improved access to social infrastructure (e.g. water, education,
health facilities) has both short-term and longer-term (generational) impacts in terms of improved
health, nutrition and labor productivity. In the first phase of the PNDRD, the main economic
benefits can be summarized as follows:
* Maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads will increase access to markets and social services,
such as health and education care. Better access to markets will generate economic benefits from
market transactions, whereas access to social services increases productivity, which in turn
contributes to increase income. Improvement of access roads will account for a major share of
demand under LIF.



60
* Investment in education and health care services contribute to poverty reduction in the short-
term by improving the quality of rural life, and in the long-term, through a more productive work
force, to overall economic development.
* Investment in safe drinking water, by improving the health of rural population, as well as a
reduction of the time spent, especially by women, in transporting water will contribute to poverty
alleviation and increase the productive capacity of rural people, particularly women. The
benefits of improved water supplies (quantity and quality) on health outcomes are well
documented. These health benefits in turn lead to labor productivity and income gains via a
variety of direct and indirect pathways. Directly, a) healthier individuals are able to spend more
'effective' hours in wage and farn work and b) fewer 'sick days' releases labor for productive
activities. Indirectly, improved health a) decreases the amount of 'care time' spent with sick
relatives thereby releasing labor for productive activities, b) decreases the time required for
complementary activities such as fuelwood collection which might be necessary when water is
contaminated, and c) may alter the portfolio of income generating activities undertaken by the
household since individuals with health risks might engage in lower-output activities that are less
sensitive to labor supply interruptions (Hoddinott, 1997). One study estimates the labor
productivity losses due to stunted growth at 9% (Pinstrup-Andersen et.al., 1996). In addition,
there are a series of second round effects to improved health. For example, higher incomes lead
to increased expenditures on commodities that improve health (e.g. higher quality diets) and
expenses associated with being sick decrease. Studies also show that better health also leads to
direct improvements in schooling outcomes (Behrman, 1996).
*  Investments in soil and water conservation infrastructure: Natural resources (land, forests,
pastures, lakes), are the principal productive assets of the rural poor. Efforts to reverse the
degradation of the resources and sustainably improve their productive capacity have a large
payoff in terms current and future income generation. Research from various parts of the Sahel
shows positive net returns over the long run to natural resource management (NRM)
investments. For example, the net present value of techniques such as composting , windbreaks,
or rock bunding are all around 700 US$/ha. INERA research in the Bazega area of Burkina
Faso show an increase in sorghum yields of 85 kg/ha using erosion control techniques; an
increase of 362 kg/ha using organic fertilizer and composting techniques; and an increase of 824
kg/ha (a doubling !) using a combination of the two techniques. This translates into significant
income increases for rural producers.
* The PNDRD will also contribute to employment and income generation in rural areas, both
directly (through improvement of the productive capacity of the natural resource base and
involvement of local artisans and village workers in the construction of basic infrastructure
funded under the LIF) and indirectly (through the new and/or additional economic opportunities
generated by road improvement and improved capacity for economic activity due to better health
and water supply). Growth multiplier research in Burkina Faso indicates that each dollar of
additional income generated in the agricultural sector (through technological change, reduced
transactions costs due to improved roads, ...) will generate an additional US$ 1.88 of income in
the local economy through the stimulative impact of spending on local goods and services
(Delgado, Hopkins, Kelly).
Cost-efficiency and sustainability: The PNDRD has been designed to enhance cost-efficiency and
sustainability. Efficiency gains are expected to be derived from the decentralized decision-making
and investment process. In particular recent project evaluations indicate that the cost sharing
arrangements along with active participation of the beneficiaries in sub-project selection and



61
implementation bring the decision-making closer to the beneficiaries. Such conditions not only
create incentives to keep investment costs low and the quality of service delivery high, but they also
increase the likelihood of sub-project sustainability. The PNDRD will also promote cost-efficiency
through contractual, rather than hierarchical, relationships of beneficiaries to both administrative
staff in charge of managing the LIF and other technical support agencies. The standardization of the
small-scale civil works project documents, technical designs and unit costs will simplify the
preparation and evaluation of projects under LIF, facilitate procurement, provide a technical and
financial reference for local communities and reduce the over-design of sub-projects. Such
standardizing encourages participation by poorer communities and reduces bottlenecks in sub-
project cycle.
In conclusion, experience with investment funds for similar decentralized rural development projects
in Latin America and Asia has shown that communities generally choose investments which can be
expected to have a very high rate of return, such as water supply, rehabilitation of roads and schools.
In addition, the LIF Operational Manual will include simple eligibility criteria for specific
investments to ensure that they are economically justified (e.g. number of people served by spot
improvement of a village access road, distance from next water point for construction of a well or
borehole, etc.).
5. Risk Analysis
There are three principal risks that could jeopardize the achievement of the project's objectives. The
first would arise if the Government were to waver in its commitment to promote effective
decentralization. To mitigate the risk, project support will be provided for the formulation and
implementation of decentralization reforms. The second risk pertains to possible fraud and lack of
transparency in the management of funds at the local level. Direct involvement of beneficiary
communities in implementation and funding of sub-projects, tight project controls on the use of
funds, penalties for fraud, and an information campaign will greatly reduce this risk. Last, the
PNDRD needs to ensure an equitable and representative decision-making process. To that effect, the
program will use participatory planning ar,d animation techniques in order to include vulnerable
groups in decision-making processes. Moreover, all committees at the local level will be mandated
to include representation from vulnerable groups.
6. Poverty Analysis
The economic benefits derived from the PNDRD will reach all segments of the rural population
including the poorest. Targeting to the rural poor will be achieved indirectly through:
(a) the kinds of projects financed under LIF (e.g., small, inexpensive projects for improvement
of village roads, water supply, school classrooms);
(b) participatory processes at community level designed to ensure that the views and priorities of
all segments of the rural population are represented in the selection of investments to be funded
under LIF; and
(c) the choice of labor intensive methods for sub-project implementation that will result in
employment generation for the poor.
The M&E system will place due emphasis on assessing the impact of the Project on marginalized
groups (e.g., women, youth, pastoralists) and on insuring that their views are represented in the
participatory planning process. Lessons will be drawn from IFAD's experience in targeting these
groups.



62
7. Monitoring, Evaluation and Impact Assessment
A participatory and flexible M&E system has been designed and field tested. The system relies
largely on beneficiary input, with quality control provided by Project provincial staff. The system
will serve a) as a tool for capacity building at the local level, and b) as a tool for project decision-
makers to use in monitoring project implementation. In addition, independent baseline surveys, with
mid-term and end-of-phase follow-up, will be carried out to evaluate the impact on development
objectives in the socio-economic (poverty reduction), environmental and institutional realms.
The participatory M&E system is intended to monitor both project execution and impact. Thus, close
links and coordination with the financial recording system will exist. At each stage of project
implementation -- identification of intervention sites, participatory diagnosis at the community level,
development of the community resource management and annual investment plan, disbursement of
community-level funds and execution of annual workplans, evaluation of workplan execution and
impact -- information will be collected and entered into the project's M&E system.
Community and household level data will be collected by the beneficiaries, by province-level Project
staff, and by contractual staff. Data will be entered at the provincial level and transferred via diskette
at monthly intervals to the PCU M&E staff. Any data related to financial disbursements will be
collected and entered by provincial and national Project staff using a consistent coding system to
uniquely identify the beneficiary community, the activity, and the time frame.



63
Annex 5: Financial Summary
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Total Financing Required        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Project Costs
Investment Costs                 13.1        13.4         18.6        21.9        27.6
Recurrent Costs                   4.3          4.2         4.3         3.7         3.7
Total Project Costs                17.4        17.6        22.9         25.6        31.3
Total Financing                    17.4        17.6        22.9         25.6        31.3
Financing
1BRD/IDA                         10.1        10.2        13.3        14.9        18.2
Government                       2.2          2.2         2.9         3.2         3.8
Co-financiers                    3.8          3.8         4.9         5.5         6.7
Beneficiaries                       1.4         1.4         1.8         2.0         2.6
Total Project Financing            17.4        17.6        22.9         25.6        31.3
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
Total Financing Required        Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Project Costs                     .
Investment Costs               30.0         35.0        40.0        45.0         50.0
Recurrent Costs                  4.0         4.5         5.0         5.5          5.5
Total Project Costs               34.0        39.5         45.0        50.5        55.5
Total Financing                   34.0        39.5        45.0         50.5        55.5
Financing                          _     _          _  _
IBRD/IDA                        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0
Government                      4.0          5.0         5.0         6.0          6.0
Co-financiers                   17.0        19.0        21.0        22.0        25.0
Beneficiaries                     3.0          3.5         4.0         4.5          5.0
Others                          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Total Project Financing           34.0        37.5         40.0        42.5        46.0
Main assumptions: These costs include the activities foreseen under Phases II and III. All costs
for the operational period exclude expected inflation.



64
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
GeneraL A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in March 2000. The
findings of this review are valid for this Project. Public procurement in Burkina Faso is regulated by
decree No. 96-059/PRES/PMJMEF of March 7, 1996. Its application is elaborated in several
Ministerial directives. In general, Burkina Faso's laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
Guidelines and allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provision in national
laws and regulations.
All IDA financed contracts for Works and Goods or contracts financed by other donors, but for
whom IDA serves as Administrator, will be procured in accordance with the World Bank guidelines
on procurement of goods, works and services: "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999,"
hereafter called the Goods and Works Guidelines, for goods and works, and "Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised
September 1997, and January 1999," hereafter called the Consultant Guidelines. A domestic
preference of 15 percent will apply to the procurement of goods under Intemational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with the provisions of Annex 2 of the Guidelines.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with Burkina Faso's
procurement laws and regulations provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit
bids (at least 30 days); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in the bidding
documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible firms are
not precluded from participation; (v) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with predetermined and transparent methods described in the bidding documents; (vi)
bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for rejecting any non-responsive bid; and (vii)
prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents will be submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
The Bank's standard bid documents will be used for the procurement of all goods and works, except
for those used for the execution of the village and inter-village sub-projects. In the latter case, the
Bank's standard documents have been simplified and are included in the Project Implementation
Manual. For all consulting assignments, the Bank's standard Request for Proposals will be used for
the recruitment of consulting firns. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term time-based or
simple assignments not exceeding six months and carried out by individual consultants or firms.
Goods, works and consulting and non-consulting services to be financed under this credit may not
be supplied from nationals of the following countries: The Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Brunei,
Darussalam, Cyprus Oman, Qatar, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. In all other respects,
procurement eligibility will follow the current version of the Guidelines referred to above.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the United Nations Development
Business and in a national newspaper as provided for under the guidelines. The GPN will be
updated each year in December and show all expected ICB tenders for works, goods and
intemational consulting contracts for the following years. In addition, a Specific Procurement
Notice is required for all ICB and for all consulting services in excess of US$ 100,000, prior to the
preparation of the shortlist. Project procurement staff have been briefed on the revised consultant's
guidelines during the appraisal mission.



65
The program elements by disbursement category and procurement methods are summarized in Table
A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods are summarized in
Table B below.
Civil Works (US$ 0.75 million, including contingencies). Project financed works relate mostly to
the rehabilitation of Government owned buildings that will be made available to the Project (US$
750,000 total). The sites are highly dispersed (19 sites in 19 different provinces) and the expected
cost for most contracts is low (less than US$ 30,000 each). Few contracts are expected to exceed
US$ 30,000. It is unlikely that any contract for civil works will exceed US$ 500,000. Should this
event occur, however, it will be subject to ICB procedures. Works exceeding US$ 30,000 and less
than US$ 500,000 will follow NCB procedures. Small civil works costing less than US$ 30,000
each, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.7 million, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors operating in the area on the basis of specifications prepared by the Project unit. Works
for sub-projects financed under the LIF are discussed separately below.
Goods (US$ 2.95 million, including contingencies). The credit will finance the procurement of
vehicles, motorcycles, office equipment (including computers), and field equipment. To the extent
practicable, goods will be lumped into lots estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more and will be
procured under ICB procedures. Goods that cannot be easily lumped into lots of US$ 100,000 or
more for a variety of reasons (timing, specificity, etc.), but are expected to cost no less than US$
30,000 and are available locally can be procured using NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount
of US$ 700,000. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods and/or standard commodities
that cannot be grouped in lots of sufficient size, and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$
300,000 over the life of the Project, will be procured through prudent local shopping, on the basis of
a comparison of quotations from at least three reputable suppliers. In the rare event that these goods
would not be available in the country, international shopping procedures will be followed. Goods
may also be procured from UN agencies (UNIPAC or IAPSO) provided each contract does not
exceed US$ 100,000 and the aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 1.0 million over the life of the
Project.
Consultant Services, Training and Audits (USS 26.9 million, including contingencies). Consulting
services financed by IDA will be for: (i) studies, architectural design, civil works supervision,
preparation of bidding documents, financial management support, financial and technical audits; and
(ii) technical matters (monitoring and evaluation, environmental impact, technical assistance to
communities, etc.) and training (skills gap analysis, skills development and training of staff and
local communities).
Consultant services will normally be procured through the selection of short-listed firms on the basis
of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except where noted below.  All consultant
assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more will seek an expression of
interest through an advertisement in at least one national newspaper with wide circulation, in
Development Business (UNDB), and/or in an international newspaper or technical magazine. In
addition, all such consulting assignments will be listed in the annual GPN.
TIhe following other methods will also apply. For audits (financial and technical) and other services
of a standard nature, the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will be used up to an aggregate amount
of US$ 2.0 million. The firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal
will receive at least the minimum qualifying score.



66
Consulting services for architectural design, civil works supervision, preparation of bidding
documents and training (estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 2.0 million) will be based on the consultant's qualifications (QBS), i.e. based on
work experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Services for seminars and small
studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need teamwork or back-up support
services, will be selected through comparison of qualifications among individual consultants
expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.
Single Source Selection (SSS) will only be used under exceptional circumstances for the selection of
services for simple tasks not expected to cost more than US$ 5,000 or for local community support
services, such as technical assistance and training, provided the aggregate amount of such services
do not exceed the equivalent of US$ 250,000 over the life of the Project.
Services for tasks, such as the organization of seminars and small studies, that are generally of low-
cost (generally less than US$ 20,000) and do not require the use of support systems shall be
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants.
Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 each may be
comprised entirely of national consultants, provided at least three qualified firns are locally
available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed an interest for those
contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
The training program is geared towards the strengthening of the managerial and technical capacities
of the Project's implementing agency, its partners, and CVGTs. The Project's training program will
be reviewed annually and will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval, as will be all
participation in workshops and seminars.
To establish a roster of consultants for carrying out studies, provide technical assistance to
communities, preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision, the PCU will
publicize each year procurement notices in the local press to get expressions of interest from
consultants. Based on the criteria detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, the PCU will
mnaintain and update the roster of consultants, which will be used to establish short-lists or select
firms with the required qualifications. The PCU will also maintain a list of qualified construction
companies and engineers, with agreed upon rates that can be accessed by Project beneficiaries.
Updates to this database will also be made annually, at which time interested qualified construction
companies and consultants in different fields of expertise can be added and poorly performing ones
removed. Performance will be rated based on feedback from the beneficiaries and the results of the
technical audits.
Local Investment Fund Sub-projects (US$ 48. 79 million). The LIF has two windows. Firstly, the
provincial level sub-projects (US$ 12.4 million) range in size from US$ 30,000 to US$ 150,000 and
are executed for the beneficiary communities by the Project. The sites will be highly dispersed over
the country (about 50 new sites per annum), making it difficult to group them. The content of these
sub-projects are demand driven and can therefore not be predicted with any accuracy. For these
sub-projects, the regular procurement procedures for civil works, goods and consultant services
described above apply. In order to increase efficiency, only provincial level executed sub-projects
over US$ 50,000 will be subject to an ex-ante review by the Bank until a threshold of about US$ 1.0
million has been reached. After this, only those sub-projects expected to costs more than US$
100,000 or non-standard sub-projects (i.e. those for which no detailed description has been cleared
by the Bank as part of the implementation manual), will be subject to Bank prior review. Prior
reviews of all sub-projects in excess of US$ 30,000 by the Bank will cause serious delays in project



67
implementation, as all these sub-projects will have to be reviewed in the same month (October) each
year. Secondly, the village and inter-village level sub-projects (valued at less than US$ 30,000 and
with an aggregate cost of US$ 36.8 million) are executed by the CVGT/CIVGT. Individual sub-
projects will be of limited size (80 percent less than US$ 500 each), widely dispersed, and co-
financed by beneficiaries using varying combinations of in-kind and cash contributions. The
bidding documents and contracts used for this category will follow procurement and disbursement
procedures as presented in the "Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments" and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. During the
Project appraisal, the Government agreed that its own procurement procedures will not apply to LIF
sub-projects executed by the CVGT/CIVGTs. However, once the rural communes emerge,
Government procedures will apply.
Prior Review. All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more will be subject
to IDA's prior review of bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications
prior to inviting bids and bid evaluation prior to contract award. As noted above, in the case of LIF
financed sub-projects at the provincial level, only those provincial level executed sub-projects in
excess of US$ 50,000 will be subject to an ex ante review by the Bank or until a threshold of about
US$ 1.0 million has been reached. After this, only sub-projects in excess of US$ 100,000 or non-
standard sub-projects (i.e. those for which no detailed description has been cleared by the Bank as
part of the Project Implementation Manual), will be subject to Bank prior review.
Prior Bank review will also be required for contracts for consulting services valued at US$ 100,000
or more for firms and US$ 50,000 or more for individuals. In these cases, the draft Request for
Proposals and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared with IDA prior to inviting proposals from
the short-listed consultants. In addition, the evaluation of the technical proposals must be cleared
with IDA before the financial proposals of the qualifying firms are opened. For contracts with
consulting firms valued at more than US$ 50,000 but less than US$ 100,000, the results of the
technical evaluation together with the technical scores will be notified to IDA. With respect to each
contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$
20,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The terms of
reference for consulting assignments and training, single source recruitment, and assignments of a
critical nature as determined by IDA, as well as amendments to contracts raising them above the
above mentioned prior review thresholds, will be subject to IDA prior review regardless of contract
amount. All the procedures in Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines will apply.
Post Review. All contracts not subject to the thresholds listed in the preceding paragraph will be
subject to an ex-post review. Once a year a procurement accredited staff will accompany a
supervision mission and conduct a post review of a sample of contracts not subject to prior review.
The Borrower will maintain all documents related to procurement below the prior review threshold
for such an ex-post review and for a review by project auditors for up to one year after project
completion. The Project will hire engineers to perform technical audits of a random sample of sub-
projects. The technical audit will focus on quality of execution and adequacy of procurement
procedures followed. The results of the technical audit will be included in the annual reports.
Frequency ofprocurement supervision. One supervision mission every twelve months will include
a procurement accredited staff to carry out post-reviews of procurement. This mission will also
review the technical audit reports prepared by independent consultants. Those reports have to be
issued within six months after the close of the fiscal year.



68
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that will increase the
aggregate cost by more than 15 percent of the original price, PCU needs to specify the reasons
thereof and seek IDA's prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Capacity Assessment and Proposed Procurement Arrangements. The CPAR has outlined a
number of weaknesses in the national procurement legislation that are not likely to affect this
project. With respect to this project, the main concerns relate to the capacity of the Ministerial
Procurement Commission (Commission Ministerielle d'Attribution des Marches) to respond in a
timely manner to project needs. The LIF is expected to generate a large number (about 50) of
additional procurement review requests each year. These requests likely fall around the same time
each year and have the potential to create a bottleneck at the level of the Ministerial Procurement
Commission. At the individual province level, however, the incremental procurement review needs
are small (2-3 per province). It has therefore been agreed with Government that the existing
Provincial Procurement Commissions (Commissions Provinciales d'Attribution des Marches) will
handle all procurement under the LIF. Training will be provided for those who have insufficient
experience with the project procurement procedures as detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual. This arrangement will be reviewed at the time of the project's mid-term review.
The CPAR underscored the lack of competitiveness at the level of FASO BAARA. Rather than
sub-contracting provincial level sub-projects to this AGETIPE, the Project will group provinces and
select service providers on a competitive basis that will manage the procurement for these sub-
projects. These procurement intermediaries will follow the guidelines established in the Project
Implementation Manual.
Procurement of all goods, works and services, other than those related to LIF sub-projects executed
by the CVGT/CIVGT will be the responsibility of the PCU. This unit has staff that is fully familiar
with IDA's procurement procedures and its procurement performance has been satisfactory
throughout the predecessor project. No increase in staffing is needed for project implementation
since intermediaries (FASO BAARA or other service providers) will handle most of the incremental
procurement. The situation will be closely monitored during project implementation and additional
staff will be recruited and trained if the situation so warrants. The Project appraisal mission
concluded that performance of PCU procurement staff was satisfactory and that sufficient
safeguards are in place to ensure transparency and efficiency. Procurement filing and tracking is
adequate. No system is in place, however, to aggregate procurement by procedure or to monitor
unit prices. Such a system will be put in place as part of the action plan for LACI compliance.
Procurement for village and inter-village sub-projects under the LIF will be executed by the
CVGT/CIVGT using procedures described above and detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual. As capacity to execute these types of sub-projects will be weak initially, substantial efforts
will be made to train beneficiaries before the start-up of the investment program. Tests were
undertaken during the predecessor project to assess the capacity of beneficiaries to execute
moderately complex sub-projects. Results were encouraging. Beneficiaries managed the funds well
and were fully implied in all stages of execution. The test pinpointed the need to assist beneficiaries
in the selection of engineers to design and supervise civil works where no standard plans exist. This
lesson has been incorporated into the design of the Project. In addition, care will be taken to avoid
overloading beneficiaries -- the investment program will proceed at a pace consistent with the
implementation capacity of the beneficiaries.
Monitoring and Filing. The PCU will set up monitoring and filing procedures in preparation of the
Project being cleared for participation in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). At the



69
present time, the procurement monitoring system is not fully LACI compliant. In order to achieve
compliance, procurement planning and monitoring (procurement progress, unit costs, etc.) will
become an integral part of the annual work program and reporting cycle. The annual work
programs and progress reports will include, the updated procurement plan, an overview of all
procurement to date and by procurement method, and an evaluation of procurement problems
encountered during the year under review.
Manuals. A Project Implementation Manual has been prepared. It consists of a main manual with
reference to manuals for specific procedures (e.g., Administrative and Financial Procedures, Local
Investment Fund Procedures, Monitoring and Evaluation). These manuals will be finalized as a
condition of credit effectiveness. The manuals clearly detail: (i) eligibility criteria; (ii) procedures
for calling for bids, selection of contractors, service providers and vendors, and contract award; (iii)
supervision procedures; (iv) financial management and disbursement procedures; and (v) procedures
for reception and handing over of completed works.
Assurances obtained at negotiations. The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) the use of IDA's standard bid documents and standard evaluation reports; (b) application of the
procurement procedures as outlined above and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual; (c)
adherence to a target processing schedule as outlined in the table below; (d) annual review of the
procurement plan and procurement arrangements as part of the annual reports; (e) the procurement
plan will be updated quarterly and submitted to IDA; and (f) procurement information will be
collected as follows: (i) prompt recording of contract information by the Borrower; and (ii) annual
and semi-annual progress reports to IDA by the Borrower showing revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the program as a whole, updated procurement time table, compliance with
aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, and review of procurement issues during the
preceding year with proposals on how to address these.
Procurnemnt Phbas         Time delay (in weeks)
Preparation of bidding    4 (6 weeks for large contracts)
documents
Preparation of bids by bidders    4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid Evaluation            2 (3 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts    2
Payment                   3
The following will be conditions of effectiveness: the Project Steering Committee has approved: (i)
the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)
the work program for the first Project Year.
Disbursements
The amounts and percentages to be financed through the IDA credit are detailed in Table C. below.
The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of five years and a half, from January 1, 2001 till
June 30, 2006. The Credit closing date has been set at six months after the expected date for



70
completion of project activities (December 31, 2005), to allow for the orderly processing of final
disbursement requests and the production of the project's final audit and annual progress reports.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, the PCU will open a Special Account in FCFA in a local commercial bank acceptable
to IDA. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 1,500 million and will cover about four months of
eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness and submission of the initial withdrawal request by
the borrower, IDA will deposit the amount of FCFA 750 million representing 50 percent of the
authorized allocation into the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding Special Commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the
equivalent of US$ 21 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments inferior to twenty
percent of the authorized allocation and replenishment applications will be submitted monthly.
Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documentation.
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for all expenditures should be made against full
documentation, except for items of expenditures for: (i) contracts for goods, works, consulting firms
and LIF sub-projects in an amount equivalent or inferior to US$ 50,000; (ii) contracts for individual
consultants in an amount equivalent or inferior to US$ 20,000 and (iii) training, studies and
operating costs, which will be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All
supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at a suitable location and readily accessible for
review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
90-day Advance Accounts: Six 90-day advance accounts will be opened for 6 provinces. These
accounts will be opened once the provincial teams have been reinforced with a qualified accountant
who has been trained in operating the financial management software and in internal control
procedures used by the Project. The initial deposit in these advance accounts will be equal to three
months of anticipated expenditures associated with the LIF sub-projects (matching grants, service
provider contracts) and the provincial project team operating costs. The PCU will replenish the
advance accounts monthly based on incurred eligible expenditures.
Counterpart Funds, Project Account. The PCU will open up a project account in a financial
institution, acceptable to the Association, in which Government's counterpart contribution will be
deposited. The initial deposit will be in the amount of FCFA 500 million, which is equivalent to 6
months of expenditures. Replenishments will be done on a semi-annual basis on the basis of
forecasts included in the annual work programs and semi-annual progress reports.  The
establishment of this account and the first deposit into it, will be a condition of effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
The implementing agency (PCU) has a performing financial management system in place which is,
however, not compliant with the requirements outlined in the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). This system will be replaced prior to the launch of the Project by a newer generation
software which will allow for the monitoring of physical project implementation progress. The
terms of reference and the administrative manual related to the new system have been cleared by the
Bank as part of the Project preparation process. The PCU and its provincial offices will maintain
project accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) to reflect their
operations and financial positions and will have all accounts audited in accordance with the IAS, by
an external and independent audit firm with terms of reference acceptable to IDA. An audit firm has
been recruited as a condition of effectiveness. The contract can be renewed up to a maximum of



71
three years provided performance of the auditor is judged satisfactorily. Assurances will be sought
at negotiations that the auditor's report, including the Management Letter and a statement as to
whether or not Bank funds have been used for their intended purpose, will be submitted to IDA no
later than June 30 of each year. In addition, the function of internal auditor will be reinforced and
an independent accounting firm will be retained for this purpose. Renewal of the contract with the
internal auditor will be contingent on the conclusions and recommendations of the external auditors.
No later than November 30 of each year, the PCU will submit to the Project Steering Committee,
with a copy to IDA, the proposed Annual Work Programs and Financial Report. The report format
will detail activities, associated unit costs and an implementation timetable. It will also include
monitorable progress indicators for each proposed activity.
In addition, the PCU will submit semi-annual progress reports to its Board showing budgeted and
actual expenditures, source of funds used, statements of progress achieved on the basis of the agreed
upon indicators and the (revised) objectives and financial reports for the forthcoming six months.
To ensure proper accountability of funds managed by beneficiaries, technical and financial audits
will be carried out on a sample basis. These audits will focus on the technical execution of the
works (technical quality and progress), systems in place to ensure appropriate maintenance, and that
basic information is available to track the use of the funds (receipts, contracts, comparison of
prices/bids, etc.). Where funds are inappropriately utilized, the Project will cease supporting
activities until all funds have been accounted for. In cases where fraud is suspected, local
authorities will be notified.
Assurances obtained at negotiations. The following assurances have been obtained during
negotiations: (a) the standard clauses related to appropriate financial management (keeping of
separate accounts by source of funds, maintenance of information, implementation of annual audits);
and (b) a detailed statement on the use of funds at the village level, with an action plan to combat
fraud.
The following will be condition of effectiveness: the installation of the new financial management
system, including the training of key staff of the PCU.
Monitoring and Reporting
The World Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in the World Bank Group
financed projects, the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). This initiative assists projects to put
in place sound financial management, procurement, and output monitoring systems. Where
appropriate, if these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or
statements of expenditure.
During Phase I, the Project will not be considered as being in full compliance with the FMI for
purposes of disbursements. The following action plan has been established in order to make the
Project ready for FMI within 18 months of Credit Effectiveness.



72
Action Plan for setting up an accounting and financial management system in
preparation for PMR based disbursements
~~~~~~~Ation                                                 D.0;00000:t.A00 dit by  Resp0  onsible 7
-Consulting firm to draft Administrative, Accounting &    Already done
Financial Management Manual describing accounting systems    Already done    Consulting
and procedures; internal controls; and flow of funds processes:              Firm, PCU,
-IDA comments on first draft;                        May 31, 2000       IDA/OQKS to
- Incorporation of IDA comments                       August 15 2000   review
- Appointment of PCU's key staff
- Other PCU staff                                     August -
October, 2000
2           -Agreement on terms of reference for external audit firm;  Already done       GOVT/PCU,
-Agreement on terms of reference for Consulting Firm to                      IDA
establish a computerized Program Financial Management     Already done
System (PFMS)
3            IDA FMS carries out an interim assessment of the Financial  Already done     IDA/OQKS
Management set-up, and issues recommendations for         (April 2000)
compliance with OP/BP 10.02
4           Recruitment process of Consulting Firm and Auditors:
- Finalize bidding documents;                         Already done      GOVT/PCU
- Seek IDA no objection;
- Publish bids;
- Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;
- Seek IDA no objection on selected winners.
5           Appointment of External Auditors                           July 15, 2000      GOVT
6           Appointment of Consulting Firm to design and establish the  Already done      GOVT
computerized Progranm Financial Management System
7           Installation of the computerized Program Financial         Already done       Consulting
Management system (operationalize the Manual)                               firm and PCU
-Finalization of a Chart of Accounts;
-"Parametrage" of software and agreement on financial
reporting format/content;
- Test of Financial Management System based on PPF
operations and produce opening financial statements;
-Set up all bank accounts (SA, PA, Imprest system, etc.)  October 31,   Consulting
and                                                   2000              firm
- Consulting Firm conducts initial training of staff  January 31 -      Consulting
- Continue test for the first semester and produce monthly    March 31, 2001    firm and PCU
reports.
8           External Auditors review the Program Financial Management    November 15-     PCU,
system for soundness and reliability.                     30, 2000          IDA/OQKS
9           Implementation of Auditors recommendations                 December 1-15,    PCU
2000



73
Act--                         -    Da*-due by  R- sposlbh
10          IDA FMS carries out the final Assessment of the Program   December 15-      IDA/OQKS
Financial Management system, issues the LACI sign-off    30, 2000
certificate along with the 18-month action plan for adopting
PMR-based disbursement
11          Program Effectiveness.                                                      IDAILEGAF
Final Phase
12          Review Program fiancial management at implementation and    6th month of    IDA/OQKS
make corrections as required:                            implementation
-Beef up and accelerate training of staff;
-Reinforce PFMS eliminate redundancies;
-Up date 18-month action plan.
13          First Program financial audit reports issued.             June 30, 2002     PCU
14          Review Program audit reports and follow on implementation  Sept. 30, 2002   IDA/OQKS
of recommendations.
15          Second PFMS review assessment to ensure compliance with   12th month of     IDA/OQKS
the 18-month action is on target.                        implementation
16          Update PFMS and start PMR-based disbursements on a        l5th month of     PCU,
parallel basis (pilot).                                  implementation    IDA/OQKS
17          Third PFMS review assessment and initiation of PMR-based  18th month of     PCU,
disbursement (LACI).                                     implementation    IDA/OQKS
1]8       PMRs issued on a quarterly basis.                                             PCU



74
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements b
(US$ million equivalent)
:  Procurementi Metho
Ependr!iture Ctegory                                                      N.B.F.       Total Cost
ICB       ~~NCR           Other 
1. Works                     0.00            0.00            0.75           0.00           0.75
(0.00)         (0.00)           (0.45)         (0.00)        (0.45)
2. Goods                      1.95           0.70            0.30            1.38          4.33
(1.58)         (0.63)           (0.27)         (0.00)        (2.48)
3. Services (including       0.00            0.00            26.85           6.90          33.75
training & audits)       (0.00)          (0.00)          (22.83)         (0.00)        (22.83)
4. LIF sub-projects          0.00           12.00            36.79           6.00          54.79
(0.00)         (8.50)          (25.25)         (0.00)        (33.75)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00            0.00            13.39           5.84          19.23
(0.00)         (0.00)           (6.19)         (0.00)        (7.19)
6. PPF                       0.00            0.00            2.00            0.00          2.00
(0.00)         (0.00)           (2.00)         (0.00)        (2.00)
Total                      1.95           12.70           80.08          20.12          114.85
(1.58)         (9.13)          (56.99)         (0.00)        (66.70)
1  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be fnanced by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the Project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local Government
units.



75
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                    US$ 500,000 and above              ICB                     0.00
US$ 30,000 - US$ 500,000           NCB                      0.00
Less than US$ 30,000   Comparison of quotes from 3        0.00
established contractors
2. Goods                     US$ 100,000 or above              ICB                     1.95
US$ 30,000 - US$ 100,000           NCB                      0.00
Less than US$ 30,000      Other (local shopping)         0.00
3. Services(including       US$ 100,000 and above       QCBS (international
training & audits)                                   advertised/shortlist)          2.00
US$ 50,000 - US$ 100,000  QCBS (intemational /national
shortlist)                6.00
Less than US$ 50,000    QBS (for LIF related technical
services)/LCS (for financial     0.00
and technical audits)
4. Incremental Operating    US$ 100,000 or below      Direct contracting, local        0.00
Costs                                                   shopping, etc.
5. LIF (sub-projects over    Initially all sub-projects       NCB                      2.50
US$30,000)                over US$50,000 up to an
aggregate amnount of
US$1.0 million, after this
only all projects over
US$100,000
6. LIIl (sub-projects        Less than US$ 30,000    Small works procedures and        0.00
under                                                     local shopping
US$30,000)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                   11.45
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months including
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.



76
Disbursement
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works                               0.40                          60 %
2. Vehicles and Equipment                    2.20            100 % of foreign expenditures and 65 %
of local expenditures
3. Consulting Services and Training          19.40           100 % of foreign expenditures and 80 %
3.onultngSericsadraiin1.40  of local expenditures
4. Grants (sub-projects financed from        30.40                        100%
the LIF)
5. Operating Costs                           6.10                          50 %
6. Project Preparation Facility              2.00           Amount due pursuant to Section 2.03 (c)
of the Credit agreement
7. Unallocated                               6.20
Total                                       66.70



77
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                               Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         18                      22
First Bank mission (identification)            10/01/1998                10/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    01/15/2000               01/24/2000
Negotiations                                   05/15/2000               08/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/31/2000               01/01/2001
Prepared by:
The project has been prepared by a multi-disciplinary Government team assisted by consultants.
Members of this teamn included staff of the UGO and technical ministries. It was supervised by the
Director General for Development Cooperation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Preparation assistance:
PPF (US$ 2.0 million) and PHRD Grant (US$ 400,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       ecialty
Jane C. Hopkins                      Task Team Leader, Senior Agricultural Economist
Emmanuel Nikiema                     Co-TTL, Natural Resource Management Specialist
Andrea Vasquez/Basra Abdillahi-Chire    Task Team Assistants
Suzanne Piriou-Sall                  Decentralization/Community Participation Specialist
Mamadou Yaro                         Financial Management Specialist
Francois Gadelle                     Irrigation Specialist
Dirk Prevoo                          Operations Officer, procurement accredited
R6nee Desclaux                       Disbursement Officer
Pascale Dubois                       Senior Legal Counsel
Ibrahim Nebie                        Agricultural Services Specialist
Yves-Coffi Prudencio                 Soil Fertility Specialist
R6mi Kini                            Environmental Economist
Matthieu Koumoin                     Traditional Energy Specialist
Ibrahim Magagi                       Health Sector/AIDS
Celestin Bado                        Operations Officer
Amaud Desmarchelier                  Rural Roads Specialist



78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Manuel de mise en ceuvre du PNGT2 (juillet 2000)
* Manuel des procedures FIL (juillet 2000)
* Manuel des procedures administratives et financibres (juillet 2000)
* Manuel de formation (juillet 1999)
* Manuel de concertation et de capitalisation (juillet 1999)
* Manuel de suivi-evaluation (avril 2000)
* Referentiel technique
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Aide-memoire de la mission de preparation du PNGT2 (Girardot-BerglNikiema, fevrier 1999)
* Aide-memoire de la mission de pre-evaluation du PNGT2 (Girardot-Berg/Nikiema, juillet 1999)
* Aide-memoire de la mission d'evaluation du PNGT2 (Hopkins/Nikiema, fevrier 2000)
* Manuel d'execution des micro-projets (Sallier, juillet 1999).
* Manuel d'execution des macro-projets (Gadelle, juillet 1999);
* Rapport de Mission: Aspects Ncentralisation et Developpement Rural (Piriou-Sall, f6vrier 1999)
* NEDAIDGIS Co-financed Traditional Energy Component -- Activity Initiation Brief (Koumoin,
janvier 1999)
* PCD Traditional Energy Component (Koumoin, fevrier 1999)
* Rapport sur l'am6nagement des ressources naturelles (Coffi-Prudencio, fevrier 1999)
* Community Water Supply and Sanitation and Rural Roads (Boukari Tare, fdvrier 1999)
*  Manuel de procedures du PNGT pour la realisation d'infrastructures de transport rural
(Desmarchelier, fevrier 1999)
C. Other
* Formulation de la phase II du PNGT: Rapport Principales et Annexes (Ministere de IlAgriculture,
fevrier 1999)
*  Bilan de realisations & resultats de l'evaluation d'iimpact par les beneficiaires et les 6quipes d'appui
(Kalala/Lachance, decembre 1998)
* Evaluation environnementale (Andredou et Toe, juin 1999)
* Etude d'impact social (Faure, juillet 1999)
* Copies of legislation that apply to the Program (decentralization laws and inter-ministerial decrees)



79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
DIfference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Mlillons       dlaburmients
Project ID        Borrower                 Purpose                                    IBRD   IDA        Cancel.   Undlab.    Orig      Frm
FY                                                                                                                        Rev'd
P000296     1998  Burkidn Faso             AG SERVICES II                            0.00      41.30      0.00     28.99     14.54     8.61
P000287     1994  Buridna Faso             HEALTH/NUTRITION                           0.00     29.20      0.00      4.55     4.76       2.40
P000283     1997  Burkina Faso             MINING CAPACITY BUIL                       000      21.40      0.00     15.78      7.40      0.00
P000308     1994  Burkina Faso             POPULATION/AIDS CONT                       0.00     26.30      0.00      4.90      5.38      0.00
P000304     1997  Burkina Faso             POST-PRIMARY EDUC.                         0.00     26.00      000      16.36     9.31      0.00
P050886     1999  Burkina Faso             PRIVATE IRRIGATION                         0.00      5.20      0.00      3.85      1.07      0.00
P000297     1995  Burkins Faso             URBAN ENV                                  000      3700       000      12.85     12.17     12.21
Total:   0.00    186.40     0.00     87.28     54.63     23.22
BURKINA FASO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval              Company                            Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999                     AEF FasoMine                        1.00       0.40       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                     Ecobank-Burkina                     0.00       0.25       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.25      0.00      0.00
1998                     SGBB                                0.00       0.38       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.38      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:             1.00       1.03       0.00       0.00        0.00      0.63      0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                  Company                                 Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00



80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURKINA FASO: COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Burkina  Sahamn        Low-                                         -
Faso     Aflc  Income         Developmwnt dianond"
1908
PopulaUion, mid-yew (mnilions)                       107        628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capa (A0as mehod, USS)                        240       480       520
GNP (Aftas meho  US$SS bl/ons)                        2.8       304     1,844
Avrg  annuw growth, 190248
Populaton (%)                                         2.4       2,6       1.7
Labor force()                                         2.0       2,6       1.9     GNP                              Gross
Motrecentastlmat. ~~atestyearsvaJlsble, 1992-98)              per                            primary
Mostmreentwdma   atntyaravallabl  199240)                          Qcapita                                     enrollment
Povety (% Vpoputaoq blow natconl powrty s,e)
Urban population (3 olftotalpopulaton)                 17        33        31
Life expectancy at bih (ears)                          44        51        63
lnfantemortalfy Owr1,000Mmveblrths)                    99        91        s9
Child malnututn (% oftchidran under 5)                 33                                   Acces to safe water
Acces to safe water ( f  populaton)                              4         74
Illiteracy (3 0populaIon "a 15+)                       79        42        32
Grosspmwy enro9hsf (%3 ofaslhool-sgepopuanl            40        77       108                 Buwkna Faso
Male                                                 48        84       113                 Low-income group
Female                                               31        89       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATK3S and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      199I
Economic ratloe
GDP (USSbWion)                               1.0      2.2       2.4       2.6
Gross dontst6ic lnvestnient/GOP             22.1    20.9       27.0      28.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and servIces/GDP            9.0    10.6       11.2      13 8'
Gros dometc savhigs/GDP                      -1.1     0.6      10.5      12.4
Gros natna avingsGDP                         3.5      8.2      16.8      18.6
Current account balance/GOP                 -15.7   -12.7     -102        -9.7                       \
Intees payroneWt/DP                          0.2      0.7       0.6       0.6                    \yomestIcen
Total debtGOP                               16.4    38t4       54.5      54.2     Savings                       ve n
Tcotal debt e tvIcl/eXpora                   3.1      9.0       14.0     11.5
Present value of debtGDP                                       298
Prerent value of debt/exports                                 189 7
Indebtedness
1977-07  1988.8     1997      1S98   199903
(avenige annualf gw1h)
GDP                                 3.7      3.1      4.7       6.2       5.5             -     Bw*na Faso
GNP per capta                       12       0.3      1.7       3.4       2.9    1           Lowncomo gmup
Exports of goods and services       0.7      0.9    14.2       10.5       5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        r,o
Agriculture                                 34.3     31.5      31.8      32.0     4
Industry                                    24.4    24.0       26.9      27.8    20
Manufacturing                              18.2     17.3      20.4      21.4      04-
Serrices                                    41.3    44.5       41.3      40.3    -20 -     '                    97   go
Private consumption                         89.7    84.5       74.9      73.0      0
General govemment consumption               11.3    14.9       14.6      14.7               -     GDI    -;---GDP
Imports of goods and services               32.1     30.9      27.7      30.0
(average aninual growth)                 197747  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Inmorts (%
Agriculture                                  2.5      3.0       -1.3      6.5    40
Industry                                     3.6      2.2      10.6      10.9    20-
Manufacturing                               2.8      2.2      11.2      12.4
Services                                     6.2      3.2       8.0       4.5      o,
Y 9,3NV           96 S1gS     7   9'6
Private consumption                          2.9      2.9       3.6       6.8    20
General govemment consumption                8.4      2.4       5.7       6.2
Gross domesic investment                     7.2      3.2       0.2       0.9     0 -
Impots of goods-and servkes                  3.6      1.4       0.9       55              -    Exports     O  Imports
Gross national product                       3.7      3.1       4.5       6.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



81
Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prIces                             1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30 -
Consumer prices                                      -2.9       2.3       2.5    20
impicit GDP detlator                        18.7      1.6       2.2       31f
10.
Government finance
(% of GDP, Includes curent grants)                                                       90   94   95 95   97  9O
Current revenue                                      12.2      13.8      14.4    -10
Current budget balance                                1.2       3.7       4.0                  GDP denator    *CP
Overall surplus/deficit                             -23.6      -9.5      -8.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Export and Import levels (U8$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             229      307      gm
Cotton                                                        128       207
meat                                         .        ..       48        48
Manufactures                                 4.
Total imports(f) (510                                                    607
Food                                                           71       111    200I
Fuel and energy                                                69        72          -              g    9    9    99
Capital goods                                                 155       198 6
Export price index (1995100)                                    102       98          92  93  94  95   9r  97  go
Import price Index (1995=100)                                   110      104               a Expors
Ten,s of trade (1995=100)                                        93       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP rauo (%)
Exports ofgoods and serioe                  112      229       267       359      e                   
Importsofgoodsandservioes                    316     687        680      772
Resource balance                            -203    -438       -393      -413      .*
Netincome                                      6        0       -13       -12
Netcurrenttransfers                           40      164       164      174      4*
Current account balance                     -157    -274       -242      -251
Financing items (net)                        139     307        208      218
Changes in net reserves                       18      -33        35       33    -12
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)        ..    323         350      373
Conversion rate (DEC, hDcalVS$)            245.7   300.5      583.7    589.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Compoewon of total debt, 1998 (USS mililons)
Total debt outstanding and dIsbursed         164      828     1,297     1,399
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0                      G. 9
IDA                                         31     221        639      710              E: 130
Total debt service                             6       36        52       53
IBRD                                         0        D         0        0
IDA                                          0       2         10       10
Composition of net resource flows                                                    D: 38S                      8:710
Official grants                             42      110       207      225
Ofcial creditors                            41       99        39       38
Private creditors                            1       -4         0        0
Foreign direct investment                    5       0          0        0
Portiblioequlty                              0        0         0        0                 c:112
World Bank program
Commitments                                 13        0        12       15      A-IBRD                      E-Bilateral
Disburseffents                              13      22         47       42      B -IDA    D-Othermuatral   F -Private
Principal repayments                         0        1         5        5      c - IMF                     G - Shorlt-erm
Netflows                                    13      21         42       37
Interest payments                            0        2         5        5
Notransfers                                 13      20         37       32
Development Economics                                                                                              9/20/99






MAP SECTION






BURKINA  FASO                                   50       100        150       200              M   A   L  I                MAURITANIA     A o
COMMUNITY- BASED RU RAL                                         KLOMETERS / KILOMETRES            ,M A L If                                                            NG
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PNGT2)                                                                                                                                  BU ,  IILRKINA FASC 
INTERVENTION AREAS                                                                             OUDALAN ,-                         G          ' r'    o d N'\
PNGT2 DIRECT INTERVENTION                                                     ,                                                      3'I'
'S                     ATE   /GHANA 'COTE
PNGT2 INDIRECT INTERVENTION                                                                                                                   )  CM  ,-~  IEM W0IOIR  >
|A    f    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                               DORIbo $                        I
® PROVINCIAL CAPITALS (before 1997)         ToORt
-~--~~- RIVERS                                                                  2' <AM
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES (after 1997)                                                 SANMAtNGA
= -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      SOUyROU            Vb
-   PAVED ROADS T,I SoGro
UNPAVED ROADSNon                                                                                                                                   -
ALL WEATHER USE                                                      OMRE- 'o9'4r
tLWeA e u5L ~~~~~-0 t9/~NAYALA2                                                                             K7£ ;XOtNDJ,gz;8 r
- ----UNPAVED ROADS\~                                                                                                            MO~ 
INTERMITTENT USE  -' kAP
M   A   L I T<o:tT K  ANWA. .MOUO VN  ANAA                                                 \                                                             POA
2 KENED90O                                                r                                                  KOULPEEL
KOMPIENG
T. Sik.s-o> I 1  O  A                                                                             P6AOR{,\ _      
,         .                                            7 -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To N-r-groT awuJ~         T. Nahhnigov
LERABA                                               z
, i'PRAeA J , X r t t0 < < , A > , ~~~~~~~~~B E N  I N
To Abidio-
- 10'            <     t            .w  a            eOUMslEi                      <                 $                                                      this mop woT produ-ed by the
Mhe D-esgo U,it of The W-rldBook
boundaries, colots, denorosh-ons
this sop do rot imply, on the port of
>                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bork Group, -oy judgmet j,
Cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ on ke ega sttu of any territory. or
COTE   D'I V    I R E                                                                     TOGO            or, -rd.--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nyedoseet or cc-ptonce of
cn   C O T E   D ' I V  Cf E  9  ,                       X                                X      )    T O G O    \ s cYh boundorles   p  e o    O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~un bundnie
0,o                                                                                                                                                                                     02) t>  f;7   2-   l_  0    )    2 -
0                  A' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                         '2-



