Report No. PID8358
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Community Based Rural (@)
Development (APL)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Decentralization; Institutional Development;
Community Action Program; Natural Resources
Management
Project ID                       BFPE35673
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (PNGT)
Programme National de Gestion des
Terroirs (PNGT)
B.P. 1487 Ouagadougou 01
Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Albert Djigma, Coordinator PNGT
Tel: 226-32-47-53/54
Fax: 226-31-74-10
Email: albert.djigma@ agriculture.gov.bf
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 5, 1999; revised July 30, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 24, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 5, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Rural sector issues2.1 The agricultural sector (crop and livestock) is the
main source of employment and income for about 80 percent of the Burkinabe
population and generates important growth and employment linkages with the
potentially dynamic non-agricultural rural economy. The sector is made up
of around 1.3 million farm households, largely subsistence oriented, with
limited access to services, markets and basic socio-economic
infrastructure. The sector is also the principal source of growth for the
economy -- contributing 32 percent to GDP and 60 percent to export
earnings in 1998. 2.2 Performance of the agricultural sector was erratic
in the 1980s, but maintained an average annual growth rate of four
percent. During the first half of the 1990s, growth was lower (around 2
percent), but increased in the post devaluation period, to more than 6
percent, largely as a result of a tremendous boom in cotton output and
livestock exports. Annual per capita GDP growth reached 4 percent in
1995, 6 percent in 1996, 4.7 percent in 1997, and 6.2 in 1998. 2.3 In
spite of these relatively positive 'macro-level' indicators, the
incidence of poverty in rural areas remains high, particularly among food
crop producers. Fifty-one percent of the rural population lives below the
poverty line (versus 16 percent of the urban population) ; the incidence
is higher among subsistence farmers (77 percent) than commercial farmers
(42 percent). With a population of 11 million growing at about 2.7
percent per annum, intense pressure is being placed on the country's
limited arable land resources.    Shortened fallow periods, low use of



inorganic fertilizers, and overgrazing threaten an already fragile
resource base and have resulted in serious soil degradation and conflict
among different user groups. With limited arable land and rising
population pressures, it is clear that intensification and technological
change will be necessary to restore and increase the productive potential
of the resource base. Yet, policy and institutional constraints (such as
land tenure insecurity) often discourage farmers from making the
productive investments necessary to reverse resource degradation,
resulting in continued low productivity and increased poverty, rural and
urban.2.4 In addition to their natural resources, the income earning
potential of small farmers and wage laborers is strongly affected by their
human capital. Improving the health status and cognitive skills of the
rural population should be a top priority -- not only as a goal in itself,
but as a cost-effective way of raising the productivity and incomes of
the poor. The literacy rate in rural Burkina Faso is only seven percent
compared with a national average of 20 percent and rural primary school
enrollment is 19 percent compared with the national average of 36
percent. Health indicators place Burkina Faso among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). More than one third of the children under five
years of age suffer from malnutrition and Burkina Faso is strongly
affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic -- the prevalence is 7 percent among the
general population; 13 percent in the transport sector. An analysis of
these health indicators by socio-economic strata suggest large urban-rural
disparities. 2.5 A poverty reduction strategy must give highest priority
to rural development and its engine -- agricultural growth -- not because
this is where the bulk of the poor reside, but rather because this is
where the productive potential resides, where linkages with the local
economy are strongest, and where growth can yield the largest impact on
both rural and urban poverty. Efforts to improve the competitivity and
productivity of the rural sector are at the core of the country's
accelerated growth and poverty reduction strategy.     However,  the sector
remains severely constrained by: (i) poor infrastructure (social and
economic) leading to high input costs and low labor productivity, (ii)
limited access to and use of improved technologies, (iii) land tenure
insecurity, (iv) inadequate access to financial services, and (v)
ineffective agricultural and social service delivery mechanisms. 2.6
Recent economic reforms have been favorable to rural development and
agricultural growth through their price effects, however, they have been
unfavorable through their public expenditure effects (reduced funding for
rural infrastructure, agricultural research and extension). Coupled with
reductions in foreign aid allocations to agriculture, the net impact has
been a slowdown in rural growth and hence in poverty reduction. It is
often assumed that opening the economy to market forces is sufficient to
ensure rapid growth of the agricultural sector. Although reforms that
facilitate the expansion of the export sectors are essential, specific
characteristics of the rural sector such as: (i) a large number of
smallholder farmers who are geographically dispersed and poorly
organized, (ii) high exposure to multiple sources of co-variate risks
(climate and market-related), (iii) complex institutional arrangements
governing the markets for productive factors (e.g., land) and (iv)
numerous market failures preventing their efficient operation suggest
that, in addition to market reform, judiciously chosen public investment
is needed. Specifically, public expenditure on rural infrastructure (hard
and soft), technology generation, and institutional development/reform
will be necessary for rural and agricultural growth to accelerate. 2.7
- 2 -



The challenge, in an era of limited and shrinking resources, will be to
increase the relevance and cost effectiveness of public sector
expenditures. Past efforts to tackle the policy, institutional and
technical constraints facing the rural poor have been centrally driven and
sectorally focused. As a result their effectiveness has been low.
Decentralized decision-making and economic empowerment of beneficiary
communities is expected to improve the choice, relevance, cost
effectiveness, and maintenance of rural infrastructure (see box for
overview of decentralization in Burkina Faso). In addition, to meet the
demands of the local population, the deconcentration of sectoral
ministries (and engaging in public/private partnerships where appropriate)
will improve the delivery mechanisms of public goods and services and make
them more demand-responsive. Such a vision is described in the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and the Letter of
Decentralized Rural Development Policy it has prepared to support the
proposed operation.Decentralization in Burkina Faso
BackgroundDecentralization in Burkina has a long and arduous history. The
first, closely controlled, communes were created under the colonial
regime. Attempts at consolidating local organizations succeeded, but none
managed to institutionalize locally elected councils and mayors. The
process started anew in 1993 with the referendum on the Constitution that
proclaimed decentralization as the country's mode of territorial
organization and management. The Commision Nationale de la
Decentralisation (CND) was created and charged with developing a framework
for the decentralization process and advising the Government on its
implementation.The CND and the Government worked for five years before the
National Assembly passed the Textes d'Orientation de la Decentralisation
(TOD) in 1998. The TOD sets up the fundamental principles guiding the
organization and implementation of decentralization in Burkina.
Decentralization, or the right for decentralized entities to freely manage
their own affairs, has become an organizing principal for promoting
development and democracy.The TOD envisions two levels of
decentralization: the province and the municipality. Both urban and rural
municipalities will exist, each headed by its own elected officials (mayor
and council). An urban municipality is a community of at least ten
thousand people able to mobilize a budget of at least fifteen million
FCFA. A rural municipality is defined by a population of, at least, five
thousand people and a minimum budget of five million FCFA.
Deconcentrated entities include the province and the department.The
provincial territory includes departments, municipalities, and villages.
As a decentralized level, the province is headed by an elected provincial
council and a president; as a deconcentrated entity, it is administered by
a haut-commisaire, assisted in his/er work by a consolatory body named the
Conference des Cadres de la Province. The territory of the department
includes communes and villages and is administered by a prefet.Key
Institutions National Commission on Decentralization (Commission Nationale
de la Decentralisation,CND): The CND is under the patronage of the Prime
Ministry but enjoys a good deal of autonomy in identifying its program and
implementing them. The Commission is responsible for conceptualizing and
piloting the decentralization process through a program of
research-action, dissemination of information and training. With the
design and implementation of rural decentralization still very much on the
drawing board, it is likely to be major player. The CND is financed
largely through a consortium of donors. Of particular interest are two
pilot instruments developed and managed by the CND: the SAGEDECOM and the
-3 -



FODECOM. The SAGEDECOM is helping municipalities identify, design, and
co-finance their training plan. GTZ in particular is supporting this
program. The FODECOM is a fund whose purpose is to help fledgling
municipalities start functioning. It co-finances recurrent costs and basic
infrastructures. In association with AFD, the CND is also involved in a
study on communal sustainable financing, and with CIDA, in assessing the
results of decentralization so far and design a program in support of
urban municipalities. Ministry of Territorial Administration (Ministere de
l'Administration Territorial, MAT): The MAT in charge of implementing
decentralization; it takes up where the conceptualizing role of the CND
stops.   It is also the lead ministry (Ministere de Tutelle) for
decentralization and is responsible for enforcing the laws and decrees.
Government strategy for the rural sector 2.8 The PRSP places an emphasis
on improving the revenues and living conditions of the rural population,
particularly food crop producers who account for 75 percent of the rural
poor. This is to be achieved by: (i) accelerating broad-based, equitable
growth; (ii) increasing access of the poor to basic social services
(health, education, safe drinking water); (iii) increasing the employment
and income generating potential of the poor; and (iv) promoting good
governance.   2.9 The strategy for accelerating broad-based, equitable
growth and increasing the employment and income gernerating potential of
the poor relies heavily on improving the competitivity and sustainability
of the crop and livestock sectors. This is to be achieved by addressing
overall policy and institutional issues such as liberalization of the
transport sector and reform of the public sector, as well as sector
specific natural resource, production and marketing constraints. The
government's agricultural strategy for the 2000-2010 period, the Document
d'Orientation Strategique (DOS) and Plan Strategique Operationnel (PSO),
outline the sector specific technical, policy and institutional actions
needed. They are summarized in the following five priority action plans:
Modernization of Agriculture: The main goal is to induce a fundamental
shift from a low input, low output agriculture into a higher input (seeds,
water, fertilizers, farm equipment), higher yield agriculture, in order to
increase labor productivity and incomes. A special effort is required to
identify and promote intensification technologies, appropriate to the
country's various production zones. This calls for strengthening
semi-formal savings/credit channels and requires a special effort on seed
selection/distribution and in quality control of inputs. Soil Fertility:
The main goal is to restore the nutrient content of the soil, a
prerequisite for promoting agricultural intensification and land
productivity increases. The strategy would comprise an incentive and
institutional package designed to lower the price and improve the
distribution of chemical fertilizers; the promotion of complementary
organic fertilization technologies based on a greater integration of
livestock into the farming systems; and the execution of various small
scale soil erosion control structures and bush/tree plantings at the
village level. Food Security: The main goal is to increase the production
of local staples in which the country has a comparative advantage (millet,
sorghum, maize) through better research and extension (service delivery)
and to create an incentive framework favorable to the increased
involvement of the private sector in the transport, storage and marketing
of cereals. Support to Producer Organizations (POs): The main goal is to
strengthen producer organizations so that they can: (i) participate in
the formulation of sector and subsector policies and in the choice of
public investment priorities; and (ii) organize the provision of key
- 4 -



services and inputs to their members. Institutional Development: The main
goal is to create public sector institutions that are well adapted to the
redefined role of government, i.e. a role refocused on policy, regulation,
planning, monitoring and the provision of demand-driven public services,
consistent with a decentralized rural development strategy in which the
resources and decision-making power is in the hands of the rural
population.A variety of National Action Plans specifically focused on
natural resource issues, e.g. the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP),
the National Desertification Action Plan (PAN/LCD) and the National Soil
Fertility Action Plan (PAGIS) are in direct support of these sectoral
action plans.2.10 Given that land and labor are the principal income
earning assets of the rural poor, increased access to basic social
services and infrastructure is important not only as a stand-alone poverty
reduction objective, but is also as an essential ingredient to increasing
the productivity, and hence growth, of the rural sector. The social
sectors have set ambitious poverty reduction goals. For example, the
government's education objectives over the next 10 years include: (i)
increasing at a reasonable cost, the primary school educational level from
40 to 70 percent, particularly in rural areas and especially girls and
(ii) providing literacy training and increase the literacy rate from 22 to
40 percent. In terms of drinking water, the government's goal over the
next 10 years is to have a majority (over 90 percent) of villages in all
45 provinces having one watering point for each 500 inhabitants, at a
distance of no more than 500 meters from the residence, with sufficient
capacity to provide 20 liters of water per capita per day. The social
sector strategies have each emphasized the need for a decentralized
approach in order to meet their targets. For example, the health sector
aims to: (i) improve health coverage by decentralizing the provision and
management of services to the district level, and (ii) improve the quality
of health services by reinforcing the participation of users and
communities in the management of health services. 2.11 Decentralization
and participation are the fundamental guiding principals of the LPDRD,
they are also the key to good governance as noted in the PRSP.
Decentralization plays an important role in a rural poverty alleviation
strategy, by placing key decisions and funds in the hands of those who
stand to directly gain or lose from the results of development actions.
Effective allocation and management of public resources must be done
through a decentralized, participatory process in which beneficiaries are
empowered to define their priorities and manage the supply of the services
needed; and service providers, including public institutions, are
responsive to beneficiary requests. This implies a devolution of
responsibilities to the rural population for managing their own local
development and a re-focusing of the role of the state on providing a
supportive policy and institutional framework . The transfer of
responsibilities must be accompanied by a transfer of resources, and at
least a partial transfer of technical services. The government also has
a role to play in compensating for market and social failures. 2.12 The
Government of Burkina Faso has decided to adopt a measured pace of
implementation, consistent with the country's limited capacity to manage
such a complex institution building process. It is expected that the
first rural municipalities will be created in about three years' time. The
Textes d'Orientations de la Decentralisation (TOD) states that: (i)
elections for urban communes will take place no longer than two years
after the publication of the TOD (i.e. before the end of 2000); (ii)
before 2003, provincial elections must be organized for the totality of
- 5-



the country; (iii) simultaneously, elections for rural communes will be
organized for existing rural communes (if separate elections are needed,
they will be organized before 2005). The first rural municipalities will
be created in three year's time and full coverage of the rural areas will
take many more years. In order to develop the management capacities at
the local level, the Government strategy foresees the immediate devolution
of responsibilities for local investment planning and execution to village
organizations, along with the necessary financial resources. 2.13 There
are 8000 administrative villages in Burkina Faso with populations ranging
from a few hundreds inhabitants to a several thousand. Village
organization varies across the country depending on ethnicity and history,
but is often highly structured on the basis of ranked lineage, gender and
age. The Village Chief is generally the head of the main lineage and
rules with the help of an elders council. The Land Chief may or may not
be the Village Chief, and may even live in another village. Since
independence, the Government and various projects have attempted to build
a village institution that would be their interlocutor at the local level
and be composed of members of the different socio-cultural groups. The
1996 Agrarian Reform gave a legal existence to village level committees
(Commissions Villageoises de Gestion des Terroirs, CVGT) that were to play
a role into land evaluation, allocation and withdrawal.     In February
2000, the Government passed a decree broadening the CVGT's range of
development responsibilities and enabling them to manage public funds.
The CVGTs will facilitate the transition towards rural communes, in
particular since they will be able to federate into inter-village
committees (CIVGT). CVGTs and CIVGTs however, will not substitute for
rural communes once the latter are in place. Thus, the approach tested
under the first phase of the proposed Program is expected to pave the way
for the creation of the country's future rural municipalities.
2. Objectives
2.1 The overall Program objective is to reduce poverty and promote
sustainable development in the rural areas. Specific phase I (Project)
objectives are to build local capacity to plan and implement rural
development, accelerate the pace of public transfers for decentralized
rural development, and support the implementation of the country's
decentralization framework.2.2 The Project development objective is to
increase the productive capacity of the rural sector and improve the
effectiveness of public investments by developing the institutional and
organizational capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan,
implement and mange their own development process. The end of the first
phase will see the emergence of rural municipalities with functioning
provincial level coordination forums and a facilitatory framework
(regulatory, institutional, and fiscal) at the national level.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
5.1 The Bank, due to the scale and range of its mandate and services, is
in a unique position to support Government policy and institutional
reforms on a national scale, articulate macro-economic issues (such as
fiscal transfers), and establish the necessary linkages and synergy
between reforms and investment activities. In addition, the Bank is able
to support long-term institutional reforms and investment programs through
APLs.
4. Description
-6-



Overviewl.1 The approach followed by the Program is based on the
empowerment of rural communities for decisions concerning their own local
development. It is demand-driven and inclusive, i.e., based on a
participatory needs assessment that seeks to involve all societal groups,
however marginalized.    It ensures the relevance, cost effectiveness and
accountability of key investment decisions and management responsibilities
by delegating them to the lowest level possible (i.e., as close as
possible to the intended beneficiaries). It closely links
agro-sylvo-pastoral development and socio-economic infrastructure and
services, thereby recognizing that rural development needs multi-sectoral
interventions. Accordingly, the range of village (and inter-village)
level investments is wide and will include productive sub-projects, in
particular those associated with natural resource management (e.g., soil
and water conservation infrastructure), as well as sub-projects aimed at
improving access to social infrastructure and services. Details can be
found in Annex 2. 1.2 Effective decentralization to rural community
groups will depend upon the latter's capacity to manage increasingly
complex development activities. Hence, capacity building will be a
fundemental component of the Program. Intensive training efforts will be
undertaken, directed at communities and intermediaries (service providers
such as NGOs, private contractors, and public services which will be in
direct contact with the communities).    As indicated in the components
table below, the bulk of project funding will be for development of local
and institutional capacity (34 percent) and local investments (54
percent). The first phase of the Program will be co-financed by IFAD, the
Government of the Netherlands, and the Government of Denmark.
1. Local Capacity Building
2. Local Investment Fund (LIF)
3. Institutional Capacity Building
4. Land Tenure Security Pilot
5. Program Coordination, Administration, Monitoring/Evaluation
6. Physical contingencies
7. Price contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       16
IBRD
IDA                              55
GOVERNMENT OF DENMARK            4
GOV. OF THE NETHERLANDS
(EXCEPT FOR MOFA/MIN.OF
DEV.COOP.)                       9
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT         11.5
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT,
CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY       7.6
BILATERAL AGENCIES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                   8.02
Total Project Cost               111.12
6. Implementation
Implementation Period4.1. The Program is scheduled to be implemented over
a fifteen-year period, of which the proposed five-year Project represents
- 7 -



only the first phase.    In line with the flexible approach taken under
APL, the actual duration of each phase will depend on the progress made in
attaining the agreed targets and meeting the stipulated triggers.
Subsequent credits will be extended in conformity with agreed milestones
and triggers.Program (PNDRD) Coordination4.2 At the national level, the
PNDRD supports the implementation of the overall decentralized rural
development strategy presented in the Government's Policy Letter. Several
projects/programs, with the common central objective of supporting rural
decentralization and local development but adopting different designs, are
currently in execution within this overall framework. A national forum
will be put in place to harmonize various approaches to decentralized
rural development, the Cadre National de Concertation des Partinaires de
Developpement Rural Decentralise (CNCPDRD). The forum will play an
important role in the exchange of ideas and experiences, the medium-term
goal being the adoption of best practices by all donors and the evolution
of the various on-going operations towards a single national program.4.3
Within each province, a framework for coordination among all development
partners in the province will be established in the form of a Cadre de
concertation. The composition and mandate of the Cadre de Concertation
Technique Provincial (CCTP) is described in the Government's Policy
Letter. The Project will provide operating support and basic equipment to
enable the Cadre de concertation to carry out their mandate in all
provinces where the Project or other donors, that have agreed to a common
approach to community development, intervene. Project (CBDRD) Management
and Administration4.4 Project Oversight: A specific Inter-ministerial
Steering Committee will be established to guide the program's
implementation and review and approve CBRDP's annual work programs and
budgets. The approved work program and associated budgets and procurement
plans would be submitted to IDA after approval by the Steering Committee.
4.5 Project Management: Day-to-day management of the Project will rest
with (i) a national coordination unit and (ii) operational/coordination
units established at provincial level. At national level, the Project
CoordinatonUnit (Unite de Gestion Operationelle, UGO) main
responsibilities will be to: (i) manage the work program at the national
level, (ii) ensure that funds from Government and donors contributions are
made available to the beneficiaries in a timely manner and in accordance
with the signed agreements with each donor, (iii) carry out agreed upon
annual procurement plans, (iv) provide technical support to the provincial
operational units during the start-up phase of the Project,(v) organize
workshops at the national level and regional level in support of the
PNDRD; and (vi) and monitor and evaluate the implementation of the work
program and its impact. 4.6 The Project will establish 26 Operational
Units (Unites Operationelle, UO) at the provincial level. The
responsibilities of the UOs will be to (i) assist the CCTP in the
coordination of the Program at the provincial level, (ii) provide support
to the CCTP in its review of village/intervillage or terroir level
development plans, (iii) enter into contracts with and supervise service
providers hired by the Project to execute specific activities (e.g.
training of beneficiaries, participatory needs assessments, project
proposal formulation, execution of the annual investment plan (AIP), and
(iv) implement the monitoring and evaluation system at provincial level.
4.7 Project Monitoring: Project execution and impact data will be
collected at the community level by the beneficiaries themselves. In
order to do so, they will receive training from the project. The data
thus collected by the beneficiaries is analyzed and aggregated by the UOs
- 8 -



and made available to the CCTP and the DREP. At this level, the
information is used to plan the work program (supervision, approval of new
investment budgets, ...), improve coordination between development
projects, NGOs and public agencies, and monitor development impact. A
copy of the report is provided to the beneficiaries for information and
feedback. After initial compilation and analysis by the UOs, the data is
forwarded to the monitoring and evaluation staff at UGO to be further
aggregated and analyzed at the national level. The findings will be used
in the progress report and the national and regional workshops.
Cofinancing Arrangements 4.8 The project will be co-financed by a number
bi-lateral and international donors. IFAD's co-financing will be on a pari
passu basis. The Government of the Netherlands and the Government of
Denmark will provide joint co-financing -- each is providing support for
specific components of the Project.
7. Sustainability
1.1 As previously noted, institutional sustainability of development
actions is the main objective of the first phase of the Program.
Considerable resources will therefore be directed to institutional
strengthening at all levels. At the sub-project/community level,
sustainability also depends on the degree to which beneficiaries have
ownership of the Project. This sense of ownership is an essential goal of
the participatory process. The contribution required from beneficiaries,
on average 20 percent in cash or in kind, helps achieve this sense of
ownership and therefore supports the sustainability of the investment.
Where essential and feasible, community contribution for recurrent
maintenance will be a condition of sub-project funding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Community-Driven Development3.1 In many countries, limited government
success in managing natural resources, providing basic infrastructure, and
ensuring primary social services has led to the search for alternative
institutional options. One of these options is participatory
community-driven development. The substantial experience of what works
and does not work which has been accumulated to date has been drawn upon
in designing the proposed program. In particular, for the government and
outsiders to induce community-driven development on a large scale requires
agencies to invest in local organizational capacity and support community
control in decision making. Also, experience shows that community-driven
development does not automatically include marginalized groups, the poor,
women and ethnic minorities unless their inclusion is especially
highlighted as a goal at the agency and community level. Finally
successful community-driven development is characterized by five main
factors: local organizational capacity or the existence of viable
community groups, the appropriate fit of technology to community capacity,
effective outreach strategies, client responsive agencies, and enabling
higher government policies and commitment. All these factors have been
built into the design of the proposed program. Specific features related
to demand-driven funds, local institutions and representativity are
discussed hereunder. Demand-Driven Funds3.2 Experience regarding
procedures and mechanisms for successfully funding micro-projects shows
that micro-projects must be identified, planned, implemented and managed
at the local level; procurement procedures have to be simplified and
ex-ante controls replaced by ex-post controls, finally, a co-financing
matrix can be used for adjusting levels of co-financing according to the
-9-



type of investments and regional poverty levels. The CBRDP incorporates
good practices from a range of international experiences on rural
funds.Decentralization and Local Institutions3.3 A key to successful and
sustainable operations is to build on countries' institutions. Burkina's
recent reforms on decentralization and land tenure fully inform the design
of the CBRDP. The program will prepare and pilot rural decentralization
by strengthening local institutions' capacity to manage their own
development in an equitable and sustainable fashion. The CBRDP also gives
a content to the land tenure framework by working with Village Land
Committees (CVGT) and consolidating their role. Additionally an approach
to resolving land tenure conflicts and to promote security of tenure will
be tested.Representativity and Accountability3.4 Lessons learned from
participatory strategies show that all efforts at devolving authority and
resources at the local levels would fail if local institutions
(traditional and modern) were not sufficiently representative of the rural
population and accountable to them. The CBRDP has developed an array of
methods for participatory planning to ensure that all segments of village
society are given a voice. These methods are being further refined based
on the outcome of the social assessment carried out during project
preparation. Future rural communes will build on these participatory
tools and develop local governments that are better accountable.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The project has a Category B rating.    Indeed, the
investments/sub-projects proposed under the Project are very small-scale
and many of them are in fact aimed at restoring the productive capacity of
the natural resource base. The review of actual experience under the
predecessor project found that only very few of the investments had had a
negative impact and that the mitigating measures included in the Project
Implementation Manual and the sub-project technical design manuals were
satisfactory. An EA was prepared for the proposed program by a team of
international and local consultants. The EA classifies the sub-projects in
two categories: (a) projects that have a negligible or a positive
environmental impact only (e.g. soil fertility and forest and biodiversity
management); and (b) projects that may have a negative environmental
impact. For project types in the latter category, which represent very few
of the 250 sub-project types eligible for financing under the program, an
environmental mitigation plan has been developed. The main elements of
this plan are: (i) identification of pre-identified environmental impacts
of each kind of project, (ii) assessment of the impacts in each
sub-project, and (iii) mitigation measures (standard and sub-project
specific). Most negative impacts are water related: diseases such as
malaria or diarrhea, erosion, water pollution from pesticides and
fertilizers, salination. Other major impacts come from the changes in the
original flora and fauna through projects like construction of small
bridges on rural tracks, soil and water conservation, irrigation or
low-land development. Projects that present unusual environmental or
social impacts and that are judged too complex to be implemented by the
beneficiaries or too costly (more than 10 percent of the investment) would
not be eligible for financing.
11. Contact Point:
- 10 -



Task Manager
Jane C. Hopkins
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 11 -



