                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No:ICR0000316




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-34360 IDA-3436A IFAD-04460)




                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF

                         US$ 66.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                       TO

                                BURKINA FASO

                                      FOR A

             COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                   IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

    NATIONAL PROGRAM FOR DECENTRALIZED RURAL DEVELOPMENT

                                February 29, 2008




Agricultural and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective February 2008)

                          Currency Unit = FCFA
                          US$ 1.00 = 441 FCFA

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 to December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBRDP  Community Based Rural Development Project
CCP    Country Partnership Program
CCTP   Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial (Technical Provincial Consultative
       Group)
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPAM   Commissions Provinciales d'Attribution des Marchés
CNCPDR Cadre National de Coordination des Partenaires du Développement Rural
CND    Commission Nationale de la Décentralisation (National Commission on
       Decentralization)
CNSFMR Comité National de Sécurisation Foncière en Milieu Rural
CSLP   Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (Poverty Reduction Strategy)
CVD    Conseil Villageois de Développement (Village Development Council)
CVGT   Commission Villageoise de Gestion des Terroirs (Village Land Management
       Committee)
CIVGT  Commission Inter- Villageoise de Gestion des Terroirs (Inter-Village Land
       Management Committee)
DANIDA Danish International Development Agency
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DGCL   Direction Générales des Collectivités Locales (Department of Local Governments)
DGFROP Direction Générale du Foncier Rural et des Organisations Paysannes (General
       Direction for Land Tenure and Producers Organizations)
EA     Environmental Assessment
ESMF   Environmental and Social Management Framework
ERR    Economic Rates of Return
FCFA   Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine (West African Franc)
FMR    Financial Management Report
GEF    Global Environment Fund
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA    International Development Association



                                    ii

IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISR     Implementation Status Report
LIF     Local Investments Fund
LPDRD   Lettre de Politique de Développement Rural Décentralisé (Policy letter for
        Decentralized rural Development)
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NCU     National Coordination Unit
MAHRH   Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques (Minsitry
        for Agriculture, Hydraulics, and Fisheries)
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
NRM     Natural Resources Management
PACGL   Projet d'Appui à la Concertation et à la Gouvernance Locale (Support Project for
        Consultations and local Governance/UNDP)
PADDAB  Projet d'Appui Danois au Développement du secteur de l'Agriculture au Burkina
        Faso (Danish project to support to agricultural development sector in Burkina Faso)
PGT     Plan de Gestion des Terroirs (Land Management Plan)
PNDRD   Programme National de Développement Rural Décentralisé (National Program for
        Decentralized Rural Development)
PNGT    Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs (National Program for Land
        Management)
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TOD     Textes d'Orientation de la Décentralisation (General Principles on Decentralization)
QAE     Quality At Entry
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




           Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Country Director: Ishac Diwan
          Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
      Project Team Leader: Emmanuel Y. Nikiema
        ICR Team Leader: Amadou Oumar Ba




                                        iii

                                BURKINA FASOCOUNTRY
                    Community-Based Rural Development Project
                             in Support of the First Phase of the
              National Program for Decentralized Rural Development




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information .....................................................................................v
   B. Key Dates...............................................................................................v
   C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................v
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................vi
   E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................vi
   F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................vii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .........................................................viii
   H. Restructuring .........................................................................................ix
   I. Disbursement Graph .................................................................................x

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................ 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/ImplementingAgencies/Partners ...........21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Components.............................................................23
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................. 36
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 40
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................ 42
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................... 44
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................... 45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................ 47
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 51
   MAP IBRD 30893 ...........................................................................53




                                                       iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                      COMMUNITY-
                                                                      BASED RURAL
Country:                Burkina Faso            Project Name:
                                                                      DEVELOPMENT
                                                                      PROJECT
                                                                      COFN-04460,IDA-
Project ID:             P035673                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      34360,IDA-3436A
ICR Date:               02/29/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                      BURKINA
Original Total
                        XDR 50.5M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 50.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
PNGT - Coordination Nationale
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD)
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
DANIDA


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/24/1998    Effectiveness:          12/21/2001       12/21/2001
Appraisal:             01/24/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/30/2000    Mid-term Review:        05/10/2004       11/18/2004
                                     Closing:                06/30/2006       06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Satisfactory           Overall Borrower       Highly Satisfactory



                                               i

Performance:                                     Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry      Moderately
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):                Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  15                  16
General public administration sector                              32                  32
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             15                  22
Other social services                                             23                  16
Roads and highways                                                15                  14


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                                 Primary          Secondary
Other environment and natural resources management              Secondary         Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Secondary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                         Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:           Karen Mcconnell Brooks              Jean-Paul Chausse
Project Team Leader:      Emmanuel Y. Nikiema                 Jane C. Hopkins
ICR Team Leader:          Amadou Oumar Ba
ICR Primary Author:       Amadou Oumar Ba




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project's development objective is to (i) increase the productive capacity of the rural
sector and (ii) improve the effectiveness of public investments by developing the
institutional and organizational capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan,
implement, and manage their own development process.The participatory approach to
reach this objective was implemented with success during the first NRM project (PNGT),
and then extended extended to all country' s provinces.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of villages covered by the project have received capacity building
                support and adopted a local development plan.
Value
quantitative or 0%                         75%                None           148%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                   06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved behind target. 2961 villages (against 2000 targeted at appraisal)

achievement)    received capacity building and adopted their local development plans.

                Percentage of villages have representative and participatory bodies (CVGTs)
Indicator 2 :   assuming their role in local development (planning, execution, and management
                of local projects).
Value
quantitative or 0%                         60%                None           149%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                   06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments        Achieved above target. 2986 have their CVGTs established and have completed
(incl. %        their development plans in a satisfactory manner. For 25 villages, the
achievement)    development plans were already elaborated by other partners.

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of CVGTs that have substantially completed sub-projects identified in
                their local development plan.
Value
quantitative or 0%                         60%                None           98%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                   06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments        Based on the project survey conducted during 2007 (which assessed intermediary
(incl. %        results), 100 percent of surveyed villages have completed at least 98 percent of
achievement)    their micro-projects according to annual investment plans.



                                                iii

Indicator 4 :   Percent of provinces with a functioning and representative coordination body.
Value
quantitative or 0%                          75%                None           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments        The project has revitalized CCTPs in all 45 provinces, although targeting only 26
(incl. %        provinces. These CCTPs held 481 meetings thanks project's support, which is a
achievement)    good sign of well functioning bodies.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   percent of villages that have satisfactory completed their annual investment plan.
Value
(quantitative   0%                          75%                None           98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        It is stated that 98% of surveyed villages have completed their annual investment

achievement)    plans.

Indicator 2 :   percent of CVGT trained and functional.
Value
(quantitative   53%                         75%                None           100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/15/2004                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        All villages covered by the project benefited adequate capacity building

achievement)    programs (with 5.5 million training days).

Indicator 3 :   percent of micro projects that are technically sound and cost effectively
                implemented.
Value
(quantitative   0                           75%                None           90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007

Comments        Total of 18250 micro-projects for US $ 48,7 million implemented by the

(incl. %        communities. Cost-efficiency analysis shows that CBRDP's unit costs were

achievement)    between 34 and 94 percent of sectoral comparators, with the largest efficiency
                gains in social infrastructure.
Indicator 4 :   number of provincial coordinating bodies trained and functioning
Value
(quantitative   0                           not defined        None           45%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        12 training sessions were organized for all members of the 45 CCTPs.



                                                iv

achievement)
Indicator 5 :  number of service providers trained and providing services to communities.
Value
(quantitative  0                          500                None          1337
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/02/2001                  06/30/2007         06/30/2007    06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This result is 167% largely above target at appraisal.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2001            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/21/2001            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     05/09/2002            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    2.83
  4     12/03/2002            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    3.41
  5     05/31/2003            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    7.65
  6     12/22/2003            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   15.23
  7     05/28/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   20.83
  8     12/15/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   33.56
  9     06/29/2005            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   43.92
  10    12/29/2005            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   53.83
  11    06/30/2006      Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                61.74
  12    01/11/2007      Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                71.40
  13    07/21/2007      Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                72.98



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Burkina Faso is a landlocked country covering 274,000 km2 with a population of about 13.5
million people which implies a population density approaching 49 inhabitants / km2 in
average. Since 2001, economic growth is stable with an average of 6.3% per year (the highest
in West Africa), however not enough to meet the high demand of the population growing at a
rate of 3.1% per annum between 2000 and 2005. The government of Burkina Faso's stated
main goal is to improve the revenues and living conditions of the rural population which
represents more than 80 percent of the total country's population.

At appraisal, the country was in a process of defining and adopting key development
strategies aimed at combating poverty and promoting decentralization in Burkina Faso. In
2000, the Government's first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) was adopted. This
paper put strong emphasis on improving the revenues and living conditions of the rural
population, who account for more than 52% of the poor, by increasing access to socio-
economic services and employment opportunities, and promoting good governance at the
local level.

The `Textes d'Orientation de la Décentralisation' (TOD), promulgated in 1998, provided the
guidelines for the decentralization process in Burkina Faso. Decentralization and participation
were heralded as pillars of sustainable development in the Policy Letter for decentralized
rural development (`Lettre de Politique de Développement Rural Décentralisé' - LPDRD)
endorsed by the Government in 2000. To put this vision into action, the Government of
Burkina Faso formulated a 15-year National Program for Decentralized Rural Development
(PNDRD) supported by several development partners. The long-term vision of the PNDRD is
one of participatory and representative local Governments and institutions planning and
managing their own development programs and mobilizing the necessary resources through
increased local revenues and Government fiscal transfers.

To this end, the World Bank assisted the Government in the preparation of a 15-year, three
phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the implementation of the Policy Letter.
The Community Based Rural Development Project (CBRD) was prepared in this context to
(i) strengthen the capacity of villages and local Governments to prioritize, plan, implement,
and maintain community-based investments; (ii) provide decentralized funding for demand-
driven and community-managed rural infrastructure and services; and, (iii) support the
ongoing decentralization process. This ICR pertains to the first phase of the APL. The second
phase, approved on March 27, 2007, is under implementation.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project's development objective was to: (i) increase the productive capacity of the rural
sector; and (ii) improve the effectiveness of public investments by developing the institutional
and organizational capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan, implement, and
manage their own development process. The participatory approach to reach this objective
was implemented with success during the first NRM project (PNGT) preceding the PNDRD,
and then extended to all country's provinces.

The project was designed as an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) to be implemented over a
15-year period, consisting of three 5-year phases. Each of these phases was designed flexibly
to adapt to the country's decentralization choices, the pace of resulting institutional reforms,
and the need to harmonize various approaches. The program was also built on the successful
predecessor NRM project. The first phase (2002-2007) was to be focused on: (i) building
local capacity to plan and implement rural development, accelerate the pace of public
transfers for decentralized rural development; and (ii) supporting the implementation of the
country's decentralization framework.

The following key PDO indicators were agreed:

        i. 75% of villages covered by the project have received capacity building support
            and adopted a local development plan;
        ii. 60% of beneficiary villages have representative and participatory bodies (CVGTs)
            assuming their role in local development (planning, execution, and management of
            local projects);
       iii. Percentage of CVGTs that have substantially completed sub-projects identified in
            their local development plan; and
       iv. 75% of provinces with a functioning and representative coordination body.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the rural population living in the 2,000 villages
covered by the project (scaled up to 3,013 in 2006), estimated at about 3.5 million people,
representing about 35 percent of the rural population) . Considering that strengthened
capacity of broadly representative village organizations is a prerequisite for the equitable
distribution of project benefits and the sustainability of results, capacity building for
Comimissions Villageoises de Gestion des Terroirs (CVGT) and support to their internal
organizations and procedures was targeted as a key step in the emergence of capable rural
municipalities.

Since the project played an important coordination role at the village, province and national
levels, integrating the interventions of a large number of actors across a broad range of
sectors and sub-sectors, other key beneficiaries included the CCTP (Cadres de Concertation
Technique Provinciale) at provincial level, the services at the Ministry in charge of
decentralization and the Ministry in charge of Agriculture at the national level, and the public,
NGOs and private service providers involved in project activities.

The financial support of the project, along with that of parallel financing partner programs
(e.g. the UNDP's program (PACGL) attached to the project) provided institutional support
for the elaboration of the `Code general des collectivités territoriales', the functioning of the
national forum (the CNCPDRD) and the revitalization of the CCTPs.




                                               2

1.5 Original Components

The project included five main components: (i) Local Capacity Building; (ii) Local
Investment Fund; (iii) Institutional capacity Building (including support and advisory
services); (iv) Land Tenure Security Pilot Operation; and (v) Project Coordination,
Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation.

Component I. Local Capacity Building - (US$ 11.38 million; IDA US $ 5.46)

The objective of this component was to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity
of the rural population so that they can prioritize, plan and execute the activities envisaged
under the program, including the preparation and implementation of local development plans,
and the organization into socially cohesive rural municipalities. This component is divided
under three sub-components: (i) Village level consultations in form of awareness raising,
including all communication, promotion and information activities; the aim was to
disseminate the project's objectives, explain modalities for participation, and encourage
regrouping of villages; (ii) CVGT/CIVGT training programs centered on the organizational,
management and technical skills required for communities' organizations to successfully plan,
implement, and maintain village level investments. Under this sub-component, there was also
a specific HIV/AIDS training and awareness raising program, and an alphabetization
program; and (iii) Technical Support to Community organizations provided to the CVGT and
sub-committees for carrying out their annual investment plans, and help beneficiaries in
setting up maintenance programs and mechanisms for cost-recovery.

Component II. Local Investment Fund (LIF) ­ (US$ 54.79 million; IDA US $ 33.75)

The objective of the LIF was to provide resources in two separate windows to communities
for financing: (i) village and inter-village sub-projects, and (ii) to undertake larger structural
works (infrastructure projects) at provincial level. Eligible subprojects included, among other,
soil and water conservation works, reforestation and forest management, structural support
for improving livestock production, structural support for improving agricultural production,
water supply infrastructure works, roads infrastructure works, social and economic
infrastructure, renewable energy, nutrition and health education and AIDS/HIV prevention
and mitigation activities.

Component III. Institutional Capacity Building ­ (US$ 26.52 million; IDA US $ 12.73)

The specific objective of this component was to build institutional capacity at the local,
provincial and national level by training and supporting field teams and other service
providers, and promoting PNDRD activities to enhance rural decentralization processes. Thus,
at the local level, the project aimed to train, contract, and equip field operators (NGOs,
consulting firms, Government technical services), while at the provincial and regional levels,
CCTPs and regional public planning units were targeted to strengthen their capacity to
monitor decentralized rural development process. At the national level, the purpose was to
support the CND and the DGCL in their efforts to design and gradually implement
decentralized and participatory rural development. Proposed program under this component
included: (i) a pilot project involving testing the social, economic, fiscal and institutional
viability of five or six rural municipalities; (ii) training, information, communication targeting
elected of new rural municipalities; (iii) support for rural decentralization planning to CND
and DGCL for carrying out studies and action-research on specific aspects of rural



                                                   3

decentralization; and (iv) administrative support to CND and DGCL in terms of human and
material resources and operating assistance.

Component IV. Land Tenure Security Pilot Operation ­ (US$ 3.82 million; IDA US
$ 3.1)

The objective of this component was to help improve land tenure security and access for all
users. It was intended to: (i) foster equity and social peace, (ii) encourage investment and
raise agricultural productivity, and (iii) enhance the preservation of natural resources. This
component was set-up to intervene in six test sites representing the principal systems of land
uses and the ownership problems associated with them. Results expected from these pilot
activities, included: (i) a practical methodological guide (toolbox) for use in improving the
security of rural land tenure; (ii) a documentation system for information generated by the
project's pilot operations; (iii) a preliminary national action plan for securing stable and fair
land tenure; and (iv) a preliminary program of land tenure interventions for implementation in
next phases of the PNDRD.

Component V. Administration, Monitoring and Project Coordination ­ (US$ 10.94
million; IDA US $ 5.46)

The objective of this component was to ensure sound and efficient management of the project
and coordination of the overall program for effective harmonization of different programs and
projects. The component included three sub-components: (i) support for the coordination
office/office of the overall PNDRD; (ii) support for the coordination and management of the
IDA-supported Project; and (iii) support for the program and project monitoring and
evaluation. Envisaged results were: (i) establishment of a National Forum for the overall
program; (ii) coordination of all activities under the project and providing funding to
beneficiaries; and (iii) setting up an integrated M&E and management system for both the
overall PNDRD and the IDA-supported project.

1.6 Revised Components

There was no change in the number and headings of the components. However, during the
mid-term review (December 2004), it was recommended to adjust the implementation
arrangements for Component IV Land Tenure Security Pilot Operation. There was no
fundamental change in the conceptual design of this component. Given the implementation
complexity at the beginning, and the fact that the results were not satisfactory enough at mid-
term review, it was decided to rearrange implementation arrangements by grouping activities
in two categories: (i) activities related to policy, institutional, legal and normative measures
to enhance equitable and sustainable land tenure security in rural areas were devoted to the
responsibility of the CNSFMR; while (ii) the project was accountable for activities to secure
communities' investments in targeted pilot areas.

1.7 Other significant changes

Members of parliament conducted a field mission in 2004 to assess project implementation.
Following their positive evaluation of achievements, the government requested that the
project be expanded to cover all villages in Burkina Faso. Although project resources were
insufficient to cover the entire country, a decision was taken at the mid-term review to cover
all villages within the 26 (out of 45) provinces covered by the project. A reallocation of



                                                4

project funds in January 2006 allowed the project to scale-up from the initial target of 2,000
villages to 3,013 villages by the end of the project in June 2007.

A UNDP program to enhance consultation and local governance was launched in 2004 and
attached to the CBRDP. This program was implemented by the project coordination unit in
support of Components 1 (Local Capacity Building) and 3 (Institutional Capacity Building)
with the intent to: (i) stimulate consultation forums at all levels, (ii) develop planning tools
and improve local development monitoring, and (iii) harmonize and capitalize the different
sets of laws. This program allowed savings in the Capacity building components of the
project that made it possible to increase the amount allocated to the Local Investments Fund
(LIF).

The designated level of the Special Account was found to be insufficient to meet the
increasing demand for the LIF as annual investment plans were approved. Hence, the project
unit was facing immense difficulties in the timely transfer of funds to communities for micro-
project implementation. Following a review of projected cash flow needs and the project's
implementation and financial management performance, the credit agreement was amended
in March 2003 increasing the designated level in the Special Account from 1.5 to 4.5 billion
FCFA.

In addition the LIF formula was amended following the mid-term review. It was initially
based on a fixed amount of 3000 FCFA per capita per village. During implementation it was
noted that this amount did not allow smaller villages to finance basic priority infrastructure.
This issue was discussed and resolved during the MTR when a decision was taken to modify
the allocation formula as follows:

     · Villages < 1000 inhbts: CFA 5 million
     · Villages > 1000 inhbts: CFA 5 million + Surplus Inhbt x CFA 3,000/inhbt

Finally, based in large part on the project's success in demonstrating the capacity of rural
communities to manage their own development process and in supporting the analysis and
institutional framework necessary to advance decentralization, the Code Général des
Collectivités Territoriales was adopted by the National Assembly and promulgated in April
2005. The Code defined the Department as the entry point for decentralization. Consequently,
the notion of stimulating the emergence of rural municipalities by encouraging villages to
engage in joint activities under a CIVGT lost its relevance and was therefore abandoned.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation was conducted between 1998 and 2000. It took two years to finalize the
project design and to bring the project to the board. The project design was appropriate for
laying the foundation for achieving the long-term development goals of the overall program,
which was agreed upon with the government of Burkina Faso for a harmonized decentralized
rural development framework. The program design incorporated lessons learned from a
previous project, the `PNGT', that intervened in 8 provinces and 486 villages. In particular
the PNGT's pilot experience in Kouritenga province had demonstrated that the responsibility
for the execution of investment projects could be transferred to the beneficiary communities.


                                                5

The design also took into account all relevant national strategies of the government, notably:
(i) the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (particularly its second pillar "increasing the access
of the poor to basic social services"); (ii) the Programme National de Développement Rural
Décentralisé (PNDRD); and (iii) the Lettre de Politique de Développement Rural
Décentralisé (LPDRD).

In addition, donor collaboration during the project preparation cycle was also optimal; at least
two other donors (IFAD, DANIDA) agreed to pull together their financial support to
contribute to the project as an initial step to build a national program on decentralized rural
development. Although the announced Dutch commitment at preparation stage did not follow
through, a UNDP program was developed and integrated into the project in 2004 to support
the capacity building components.

Despite lengthy preparation, it still took considerable time to launch project activities. The
project was approved by the board on November 30, 2000 after having been appraised in
January 2000. Task team leadership was changed prior to appraisal and the appraisal mission
resulted in changes to project design to increase the project's role as an instrument to support
the national decentralization strategy. This necessitated a follow-up "pre-negotiation" mission
to revise implementation arrangements and the government's Policy Letter which was not
completed at the time of appraisal. Thus, although the project was appraised in January 2000,
it was not negotiated until April. In addition, an initial EA was disclosed prior to appraisal,
however substantial revisions were required following the ASPEN team review and the final
revised document was not submitted to the InfoShop in time for a July board date. As a result,
a management decision was taken to postpone the board date to November 2000 to satisfy the
120 day disclosure requirements of the Pelosi Amendment.

The Development Credit Agreement was signed on June 7, 2001 six months after board
approval. The delay was due to difficulties (i) in sorting out pari-passu arrangements
stipulated in the credit agreement with one of the financing partners and (ii) in coming to an
agreement with the Government on the location of the Project Account (the minutes of
negotiations stipulated that the account be located in a commercial bank; following board
approval the Government challenged this condition and requested that the account be located
in the Central Bank ­ the signing was delayed until the issue was resolved between the
Ministry of Finance and the CMU).

The project became effective on December 12, 2001 ­ six months after signing the credit
agreement and a year after board approval - the launch workshop was held in February 2002.
A number of reasons can be cited for this lengthy process, and slow start-up of activities on
the ground, some within and some outside the control of the project:

     · The administrative and financial manual of procedures was not ready prior to the
       negotiations and thus became a condition of effectiveness. The process of hiring the
       consultant to finalize the manual took more time than expected and led to delays in
       effectiveness;
     · The ratification of Development Credit Agreement after signature was delayed due to
       closing of the National Assembly June session; since the legal opinion (avis juridique)
       depends on DCA ratification by the National Assembly, this step was only possible
       after the opening of the next October session;
     · Although all essential personnel were in place one month after the signature of the
       credit agreement, their deployment in the field was delayed due to long acquisition


                                                6

        process of project's vehicles and computer equipment: these materials were purchased
        through Côte d'Ivoire which was already experiencing its political problems.

2.2 Implementation

Shortly after the start up of project activities, the project faced high disbursement demands
following the submission of annual investments plans to implement village and provincial
micro-projects. This created a cash flow bottleneck and made it extremely difficult for the
project to transfer local investment funds to communities in a timely manner so that planned
micro-projects could be completed according to schedule. Most activities could be realized
only during the dry season (4-5 months) when farmers were not held up by field occupation
to participate and supervise micro-projects execution. It became obvious that the limited
initial Special Account ceiling of F CFA 750, 000 was not sufficient to face the high seasonal
demand. In addition, at that time withdrawal applications took an average of 45 days to be
processed. Following exchanges on this issue, the initial deposit was raised twice during the
project lifetime ­ first to F CFA 2.2 billion and then to F CFA 4, 5 billion ­ accompanied by
a decrease in withdrawal delays. On the other hand, the initial deposit of the IFAD funding of
F CFA 350,000 was never raised despite the project request. Nonetheless, by taking these
measures the project was able to deal with the increasing demand for revolving funds for
village investments.

Anticipated funding from Netherlands, promised during project preparation, did not
materialize in the end. This contribution was dedicated to support activities to promote
renewable energy as part of the local investments funds. The withdrawal of the Dutch
financing ultimately reduced the opportunities to finance micro-projects in this crucial
environmental field. The Dutch contribution to the program financing did not happen as
anticipated during appraisal because of realignment of their development priorities in Burkina
Faso.

Implementation of certain types of micro-projects posed challenges and to some extent was
delayed for the following reasons:

            (i)    lack of competent service providers at provincial level;
            (ii)   high poverty rate of targeted villages causing difficulties to mobilize
                   communities' contributions;
            (iii)  provincial window of the local development fund posed high transaction
                   costs due to complex procurement procedures at national level and low
                   demand for structural inter-village sub-projects; and
            (iv)   supervision costs of civil works at the beginning (which included a lot of
                   travel expenses) were supported by communities themselves before being
                   allowed to be included in the investment costs of the micro-projects.

During appraisal, it was decided that the functions of the project implementation unit would
be retrenched after two years of implementation by handing over technical support to trained
technical service providers. Despite, one of the triggers from phase 1 to phase 2 being "Plans
for decreasing the central administrative structure of the Project have been developed and
partially implemented" this could not be entirely realized, because of increased workload as
the project evolved and was expanded after the mid-term review. The team also had to
support the very challenging decentralization process.




                                                 7

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A Project Design Summary was prepared as an annex to the appraisal document. However,
although outcome and output indicators were well identified, the project monitoring and
evaluation system was not described in detail in the project design. The project took
advantage of the already existing Danish project to support the government to develop a
monitoring and evaluation system for the national program for decentralized rural
development in which the CBRD was embedded. This component was run until mid-term
review by the NRM component under the Danish financed project (PADDAB1). This
institutional position was nevertheless not judged as pertinent even by the Danish evaluation
team. The Danish support was ended in 2005 with the consequence to readjust IDA financing
to take over the related M&E costs. This reallocation of IDA funds did not however impact
negatively activities related to village investments, since the local investments fund was not
affected by this readjustment; the funds came mainly from the Capacity Building components
supported by the later attached UNDP project which allowed funds savings.

Some external factors hampered the implementation of the M&E system. On the one hand,
the time lag between approval of Danish financial support (February 2000) and the start up of
the CBRD (April 2002), and on the other hand, the rapid evolution of the number of villages
after mid-term review (more than 3000 villages against a target of 2000) caused delays on
performance monitoring at the beginning. In addition, impact monitoring was also hampered
by the cumbersomeness of monitoring committees' operation, combined with the difficulty to
find qualified service providers. Shortcomings were also noted in the absence of baseline data
for some key performance indicators and the slowness in developing participatory outcome
evaluation. Therefore, it took considerable time to finalize the studies and the project noted
some delays in validating the evaluation methodologies.

Despite these start-up constraints, the M&E system supported by the Danish funding
achieved considerable results. The project unit was able to track and report regularly the
evolution of output indicators. Personal was adequately trained at national and provincial
levels. The project set three committees to monitor socio-economic, economic and
environmental impacts. On the outcome side, the impact evaluation work was particularly
good, and well documented with progress reports published each year, since 2005. Also, the
project supported the government to conduct a national baseline survey in 2004 on living
conditions, revenues and poverty of rural households in Burkina Faso2. This survey serves as
a baseline for the impact evaluation for the entire program.




1PADDAB: Programme d'Appui Danois au Développement du secteur de l'Agriculture du Burkina Faso

2MAHRH/PNGT2 : Les Conditions de vie, les Revenus et la Pauvreté des Ménages ruraux au Burkina Faso en
2004 : Résultats de l'enquête de base du PNGT2




                                                8

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


According to the environmental and social assessment, the project was rated as a category `B'
project.   An environmental assessment (EA) was carried out and identified mitigation
measures to treat possible negative environmental impacts that may have occurred during
implementation of some micro-projects. Two safeguard policies were triggered for the project
at appraisal: (i) environmental assessment (OP 4.01) and (ii) natural habitats (OP 4.04).
However, it took some time for the project to comply with these policies. Although the
project was effective in December 2001 and implementation started in April 2002, the
safeguard documents related to directives and methodologies for micro-projects selection in
accordance with environmental and social management plans were elaborated only in August
2003.

Until mid-term review, the project experienced difficulties to implement activities of the
ESMF due to lack of capacity of different agents/players in charge of its execution. Following
recommendations of the mid-term review in December 2004, a capacity building workshop
on environmental safeguard policies was held on January 2006 for the different concerned
CBRD staff. This workshop allowed a better understanding of the ESMF and the WB
environmental and social safeguard policies, and helped the project unit to set up a strategy to
speed up the implementation of the safeguard policies triggered during appraisal.

Soon after this workshop, different training sessions were organized by the national
coordination unit benefiting all other players within the provinces involved in the application
of the safeguard policies. Criteria to guide the screening process were also developed. Thus,
starting 2006, screening criteria for micro-projects were integrated in every new co-financing
agreement with the CVGTs, and all ongoing investments in the villages before the
implementation of the ESMF (between 2003 and 2005) were also regularized.

Concerning fiduciary compliance, audit reports were delivered on time and were not qualified.
The first Financial Management Reports (FMR) were submitted on September 30, 2004 and
were deficient since they did not include the physical execution of project activities. Since
then, they have been complete and submitted on a regular basis and generally on time.

Procurement initially faced a number of constraints generally associated with a poor
understanding of World Bank procurement procedures. At the central level, the first
difficulties were related to the definition of the relative weight applicable to the different
evaluation criteria. At the provincial level, the Commissions Provinciales d'Attribution des
Marchés (CPAM) had at the beginning difficulty to understand and comply with the
procedures, causing some delays in contract awards. The unavailability of qualified service
providers at provincial level was another source of delay for the contracts' awards leading to
frequent unfruitful bids. In addition, the CPAMs experienced also repeated staff changes in
their administrative personnel with negative effects on the quality of the procurement
commissions' evaluations, before the new staffs got the opportunity to be trained. At CVGT
level, simplified community procurement procedures were well executed by most of villages;
the low literacy rate of the communities remained however one the major issues that hindered
good quality of the supporting documents.

It is important to note that the project contributed largely to raise the capacity at village level
to deal with procurement issues. The development of simplified procedures for local
procurement and the training of a large number of persons at provincial and village level in
basic procurement principles contributed to good governance capacity at local level.




                                                9

Over time the procurement issue became a minor concern and was mastered by the project
unit. At the community level, it is worth noting that the CVGTs were able to comply quite
easily with project procedures for micro-projects implementation. The good quality and
timely execution of the infrastructures at village level is a good indicator. The costs of the
investments were also at acceptable level compared to investments financed by other sources
of funding using different implementation procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The institutional challenges of the decentralization reforms and the necessarily gradualist
approach to capitalize on project implementation experience led the Government to formulate
a 15-year national program (2001 to 2015). This Programme National de Développement
Rural Décentralisé (PNDRD) is supported by an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) divided
into three phases of five years each. Each of the phases will be designed flexibly in order to
adapt to the country's decentralization choices, the pace of resulting institutional reforms, and
the need to harmonize various approaches.

The Community-Based Rural Development Project ­ phase I of the APL - initiated the
process. It focused on capacity building aspects at village/community level and the
institutional strengthening of government bodies to support the decentralization agenda and
land tenure regulations in rural areas. Thanks to project assistance and the input from it's
parallel financing partners (e.g. the UNDP) the government was able to advance its
decentralization agenda before the end of the first phase.

The second five-year phase of the APL was approved by the board on March 27, 2007 and
became effective on July 13, 2007. It builds on the successful achievements of the first phase
and will scale-up to national coverage by targeting the recently created 302 rural communes
nationwide and benefiting a population of over 6.5 million. One of the greatest challenges
during this phase will be to build rural municipalities that are truly participatory and
accountable to their population. Phase II will place more emphasis on sustainability and
reinforcing capacities of communities, local and central government institutions to enhance
operation and maintenance arrangements of infrastructure and it will continue to support as
institutional reforms. Phase III will consolidate what has been achieved and prepare an exit
strategy.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives, design and execution of the CBRD are entirely consistent with the major
orientations of the government as well as the operational mechanism for the implementation
of the decentralized rural development strategy as spelled out in the Policy Letter for
Decentralized Rural Development. The project effectively assisted the government in setting
up the concrete design of the decentralized rural development mechanism at all levels (village,
provincial and national levels).

At village level, the establishment and strengthening of village associations, the CVGTs
through local capacity building programs and the introduction of a participatory planning
process were undoubtedly essential steps to initiate the government's local and decentralized
rural development agenda. In addition, the funding and implementation of community micro


                                              10

projects gave the CVGTs the opportunity to exercise planning, control, management and
maintenance functions. At the provincial level, the project, with support from the UNDP
program, was a key player in the institutional capacity building in revitalizing the role of the
Cadres de Concertation Technique Provinciaux (CCTP), and improving the competences of
private and public service providers. At the national level, the project initiated and supported
the establishment of the CNCPDR (Cadre National de Coordination des Partenaires du
Développement Rural), and the CNSFMR (Comité National de Sécuriation Foncière en
Milieu Rural), in charge of land tenure issues in rural areas and now piloting the
corresponding component in the second phase of the project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objective was largely achieved. The CVGTs have acquired over the
years through project assistance substantial aptitudes in planning, execution and monitoring
of micro-projects derived from local development and annual investments plans. A technical
audit with regards to the intermediary results conducted at CVGT level, and a beneficiary
assessment study regarding the impacts of project's activities provide evidence of positive
project outcomes.

The beneficiary assessment study3 highlighted some significant impacts in terms of social
capital building (organizational and capacity development, self confidence), sustainable land
management, agricultural productivity increase, and improved access to social services. The
organization around the CVGTs is perceived as an inclusive tool bringing the beneficiaries to
organize themselves around common goals and manage their resources differently. Also,
productive and NRM investments led to increased productivity and reduced land degradation
combined with higher awareness for sustainable resources management (see annex 3 for more
detail). Realized infrastructures are found generally operational, even though there is a need
for more awareness regarding maintenance. Therefore, operation and maintenance fees
should be collected on a regular basis to assure sustainability of village investments. Theses
impacts are reflected in the assessment of the key performance outcome indicators.

There are seven key performance outcome indicators for the achievement of the project
development objective as stated in the Project Design Summary. Out of these seven, five
were fully achieved and even above target. The remaining two indicators (regrouping into
inter-village structures; and decreasing of central administrative structure) were hampered
by unexpected changes in the decentralization policy and the expanded project coverage.
Below is the assessment for each outcome indicator with linkages to corresponding outputs.
For detail see Appendix 1 of the Annex 2 (Outputs by components).

  · At least 75% of villages targeted in the first phase have received capacity building
    support and adopted a local development plan. This indicator is fully achieved and
    largely above target. In total, 2961 established CVGTs with project assistance (more than
    the 2000 targeted) benefited from a wide range of capacity building programs and were
    able to elaborate successfully their local development plans, and implement them
    effectively. At least 98 percent of planned micro-projects were completed according to
    annual investment plans, thus surpassing widely the target of 75 percent.



3This survey was conducted in 8 provinces and 40 villages.




                                                     11

· At least 60% of beneficiary villages have representative and participatory bodies
  assuming their role in local development. This second indicator has also been
  satisfactorily met. In fact, all beneficiary villages have their representative and
  participatory bodies through well established and functioning CVGTs, and are assuming
  adequately their role. The survey results published in June 2007 revealed that, between
  2002 and 2006, 88 percent of the CVGTs were able to elaborate their annual investments
  plans subsequently, and 71 percent held regularly their self evaluation forums in the
  same period. This is in addition to the 98 percent completion rate of micro-projects
  implementation.

· At least 30% of villages have been regrouped into inter-village development structures
  that have already undertaken sub-projects in common. There was an attempt to regroup
  certain villages into inter-village structures called CIVGT. This concept was however
  abandoned due to the change in the government's concept regarding rural
  decentralization policy. Despite of this institutional change, some villages were able to
  undertake common sub-projects financing.

· 75% of target provinces have a functioning representative coordination body providing
 sound coordination of available resources and quality services to support local
 development efforts. This outcome was fully achieved. Starting in 2002, all 45 provincial
  coordination committees were revitalized and trained in various relevant themes. Due to
  the project intervention, the CCTPs have become vital ingredients in Government's
  decentralization and planning strategy at the local level. There is strong
  acknowledgement that the majority of the CCTPs are still functioning well; nevertheless
  the question of sustained financing of these representative coordination bodies beyond
  project support remains a somewhat of a concern that needs to be tackled during the
  second phase.

· The decentralization law is being implemented satisfactorily. This outcome was entirely
  achieved. The project support was fundamental in the revision of the decentralization law
  and the installation of the new communes. The project was an excellent opportunity for
  the elaboration and validation of a tool-kit for Communal development planning in
  preparation of the rural decentralization process. Thanks to this process, as led by the
  ministry in charge of Decentralization (which highly valued the project contribution),
  rural communes were successfully put in place with well conducted communal elections
  held in April 2006 in the entire country.

· A functioning national forum has made substantial progress towards harmonization of
  rural decentralized development approaches. The outcome indicator related to the
  establishment of a functioning national forum was successfully met. The project was
  instrumental in initiating a national forum for consultations among development partners
  on decentralized rural development in Burkina Faso. The CNCPDR was created with
  project support and held regular meetings to harmonize views among partners on the
  decentralized rural development agenda. This led to the setting up of three technical
  committees to monitor socio-economic, environmental and institutional impacts.

· Plans for decreasing the central administrative structure of the Project have been
  developed and partially implemented. This outcome could not be achieved due to the
  extended national project coverage following the mid-term review, from 2000 villages to


                                            12

     more than 3000 villages. This government request, as the result of a satisfactory
     parliamentarian assessment of the project put more pressure on the central coordination
     structure and provincial units to meet one of the most important output indicators aimed
     at decreasing the time lag between CVGT contract and disbursement of annual
     investment fund.       In addition, the decrease of personnel was linked to the
     accomplishment of the decentralization process (creation of rural communes) which was
     delayed during the first phase. To avoid any risk in the proper project supervision, it was
     therefore agreed to maintain the central unit in its initial form and shape over the project
     lifetime.

3.3 Efficiency

The CBRD experience has shown that communities generally choose investments with very
high rate of return and are sustainable. Through a decentralized decision-making process, it
has been proven that the investment costs are low compared to similar micro-projects realized
by different partners or government institutions. Economic and financial analysis undertaken
for the diverse types of investments, although showing different rates of return, clearly
demonstrate cost efficiency and high responsiveness of service delivery, which are essential
for poor communities (see Annex 3).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Achievement of the overall project objective is rated as satisfactory
The project appraisal document specifies that all seven key performance outcome indicators
of the first phase were at the same time the Performance Triggers for the subsequent moving
to the second phase of the program. It is worth noting that, except for the two indicators that
were not met due to reasons outside the control of the project, all outcome indicators were
met at satisfactorily level or higher, and thus the project development objective is considered
as achieved: the project contributed to develop the capacity of the rural population to
sustainably manage its own resources and facilitated the emergence of rural municipalities.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Through the project activities, different segments of the rural population have been reached,
particularly the poorest by supporting small scale and inexpensive micro-projects on a
priority basis. The poverty orientation of the project was also put in practice through the
participatory process at the community level which ensured appropriate representation of
priorities of the poor in the selection of activities to be funded.

According to the survey conducted, the beneficiaries of project activities perceived significant
changes in gender-related issues. The situation of women has considerably improved due to
water and health infrastructures realized, as well as associated sensitization programs in
hygiene and family planning. In addition, the support for revenue generating activities have
given women beneficiaries more opportunities to some financial autonomy. At the same time,
the implementation of the program has opened furthermore the way for women to integrate
village associations as equal partners like men and so to share the decision-making process at
the community level. Project activities have also had positive effects on inter-communities
and intergenerational relationships. These consist of peaceful conflict management between




                                                 13

social groups with different interests and the promotion of youth involvement in decision
making process, both contributing to more social equity and inclusion.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

In general, different important changes were recorded by the beneficiaries due to project
activities. These are related to: (i) capacity strengthening of various local stakeholders in
rural areas, (ii) quality of financed micro-projects and their impact on agricultural production
and living conditions, and (iii) improvements in local governance at the bottom of a
successful ongoing decentralization process. More specifically, very important institutional
change and institutional strengthening happened during project implementation period as well
as at central, provincial and local levels, including:

   · The project supported successfully the decentralization process in Burkina Faso by
     assisting the government in the elaboration and adoption of the new law on
     decentralization and to put in place the new rural communes and their representative
     village level organizations, the CVDs (commissions villageoises de développement). The
     project experience in the constitution of the CVGTs as well as in local implementation of
     micro-projects has been influential in shaping the newly established CVDs and their
     attributions. Most of CVGT members trained by the project were elected in the new
     decentralization bodies and structures.

   · Different national structures were created: (i) the CNCPDR as a consultation forum
     among partners around the decentralized rural development agenda, and (ii) the
     CNSFMR, which led to a policy on land tenure security and the emergence of the
     DGFROP as institutional body to manage land tenure issues in rural areas in a
     sustainable manner; Regarding land tenure, the project aimed at the beginning to address
     technical questions with pilot operations in six regions. However, the mid- term review
     found that this approach was not working as technical issues appeared very difficult to be
     addressed before the policy side is fixed. Therefore the project shifted its approach to
     support the government in setting up an enabling policy framework for land tenure, and
     pursued at the same time its initial target on land tenure security pilot operations.

   · The revitalization of the Cadres de Concertation Technique Provinciaux (CCTP) at
     provincial level has been an important step for the capacity strengthening of different
     public and private service providers devoted to assist communities in the planning,
     execution and monitoring of their development programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The overall program was indeed designed to support the government strategy as spelled out in
the Policy Letter for Decentralized Rural Development. The project was accordingly
considered by the different development partners as an opportunity to pull their support
together for improved aid effectiveness. At least three other donors supported the program at
the same time with additional financing: (i) the IFAD as a co-financier, (ii) the UNDP and
(iii) DANIDA as parallel financiers. The UNDP support to the component 1 and 3 (capacity
building) was particularly beneficial since it allowed to increase IDA funds to the component
Local Investments Funds for more micro-projects. Due to these joined efforts, the program
was able to harmonize interventions in certain provinces through the revitalized CCTPs under
the guidance of the High commissioner. Based on this positive experience, the UNDP is now
financing a new project to support decentralization while capitalizing on the CBRD results.



                                                 14

Also worth noting is the elaboration of a local planning guide with support from the UNDP
program. Although this activity was not planned at the beginning, it became a great
opportunity for the project to test future interventions at rural commune level 4 . This
unintended result will allow scaling-up to communal development plans in the new rural
communes in Burkina Faso during phase 2 of the CBRD.

On the other hand, the withdrawal of the DANIDA funding following the ending of their
financing before project closing date was unexpected by the project team. This fact could
have affected to some extent the continuity of the just started monitoring and evaluation
activities. To face the situation and avoid any interruption in the system, the project unit
successfully increased IDA funding to this component to avoid any shortcomings.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The beneficiary assessment of the project was generally positive. The beneficiaries
demonstrated to have a good knowledge of the objectives and project activities and they
appreciate very well the positive changes occurred in their daily life due to project activities.
Beneficiary's perceptions can be summarized as following:

    Importance of the CVGTs and the planning process. The entire process of setting up of
    CVGTs, the elaboration of village development plans, and the execution of local
    investments funds was perceived by the communities as a good vehicle for the promotion
    of local development. The CVGT is accepted as the federative structure of the village and
    is presented as such to all other partners to coordinate their interventions (the village entry
    point). The villagers regret only the lack of financial support for operational costs related
    to the monitoring of project activities by the CVGTs' members.

    Highly valued mechanisms to implement the local investments fund (LIF). The project
    eligibility criteria to access the local investment fund are appreciated positively by the
    communities. These stated procedures enabled more communities' empowerment, assured
    transparency in the management, and reinforced the beneficiairies'ownership of
    investments. The principle of co-financing contributed considerably to increase the level
    of responsibility of the beneficiaries. Despite of this positive perception, some
    deficiencies were also noted by the communities in the implementation of the LIF. They
    relate to: (i) the limited amount of resources allocated per village, (ii) the difficulty to
    mobilize the financial contribution of villagers in some cases due to extreme poverty, and
    (iii) the lack of capacity of certain service providers with negative effect on part of
    realized investments.

    Adequate institutional capacity building at local and provincial level. The beneficiaries
    appreciated well the fact that the contracts were signed with the CVGTs with positive
    impact on the performance of the service providers. The availability and listening
    capacity of provincial coordinating teams were considered critical to empower the
    communities and give them opportunity to define and implement their micro-projects



4A test was jointly financed (with UNDP program) in 12 prefectures with 12 Communal Development Plans as
an output.




                                                   15

    according to their priorities. On the other hand, the lack of sufficient human capital of the
    technical service providers and the provincial coordination units was perceived as a limit
    to the expansion of the project activities within the provinces. In some cases, the
    provincial coordination units were found too involved in the community procurement
    process.

    Appropriate land tenure security pilot operation as means to promote and secure village
    investments. This pilot operation contributed to raise awareness on the issues related to
    land tenure security in rural areas. The communities are conscious of the importance of
    this formalized procedure to allocate land to secure village investments. They appreciate
    well the establishment of the village commission for conflict resolution. Two main
    deficiencies were signaled: the absence of compensation mechanism to the land owner
    and some assigned surfaces were found too big for given investments.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

Risks to development outcome and sustainability of project achievements are assessed against
institutional, economic/financial, environmental and social criteria. Overall, risk to
development outcome is evaluated as low, given: (i) the high ownership of project at all
institutional levels (by government and beneficiaries through their organizations), (ii) the
moderate financial risks linked to sustainability of the different investments, (iii) the
relatively minor negative environmental impacts associated with the kinds of implemented
micro-projects and (iv) the high social significance of project activities (targeting poverty
issues, inclusion of vulnerable groups, and balanced gender equity).

The institutional risk to development outcome is low. During this first phase, the project was
able to push for institutional capacity building at governmental level to support the national
program for decentralized rural development. The ministry in charge of Decentralization
benefited from project assistance to elaborate and adopt a new law on decentralization in
Burkina Faso. This law was implemented and rural communes were installed in 2006 partly
rooted on the existing CVGTs, now becoming CVD (Commissions Villageoises de
Développement). The decentralization scheme was adopted before project closing date. The
302 rural communes installed, following successful elections held in April 2006, are now
targeted during the second phase of the project and will benefit from institutional capacity
building. At the provincial level, the reinforcement of the CCTPs leading to the enhancement
of provincial and local coordination among different partners is another positive impact
minimizing institutional risk to the development outcome. In addition, the creation of the
national forum for consultations among development partners on decentralized rural
development (the CNCPDR) and the emergence of the DGFROP as the institutional body for
land tenure issues in rural areas will certainly strengthen the empowerment of all actors at
national as well as provincial and local levels.

The economic and financial risk to development outcome is moderate. At appraisal, three
major risks were identified that could jeopardize achievement of outcomes: (i) government
deviation from effective promotion of decentralization, (ii) possible fraud and transparency in
funds management at local level, and (iii) lack of equitable and representative decision-
making process. It is worth noting that none of these threats did materialize during project
execution. First, the government maintained its commitment for effective promotion of


                                               16

decentralization by passing and implementing a new law and holding successful elections for
rural communes. Second, technical and financial audits were carried out periodically on a
random sample of CVGTs and uncovered only four cases of mismanagement out of 3013
villages. Also all financial audit reports were without reserve and Bank supervision of the
project financial management system consistently rated the component either satisfactory or
highly satisfactory in the ISRs. And third, communities identified themselves with the
representative bodies at local level through the elected CVGTs. It is also proven that the kinds
of projects financed under the LIF were well targeted, inexpensive and require low O&M
costs. Cost-Benefit analysis showed that socio-economic sub-projects (education, health,
water) are highly appreciated, and productive investments (such as soil and water
conservation infrastructures) have high net present values. Nevertheless, emphasis should be
put during the second phase on beneficiary's contribution for maintenance of infrastructures
to ensure long term sustainability.

The environmental risk to development outcome is low. According to the environmental and
social assessment, the project was rated as a category `B' project. Although two safeguard
policies were triggered (the environmental assessment [OP 4.01] and the natural habitats [OP
4.04]), project activities and selected types of sub-projects have only negligible
environmental effects, while the project has been implementing the environmental and social
management framework (ESMF) in satisfactory fashion once it got over initial start-up
problems.

The social risk to development outcome is low. The CBRD has played a major role in creating
social capital in the concerned villages and has been instrumental to mainstreaming gender
and social equity in the local development agenda. However, traditional social structures
continue to hamper these positive developments, and women's participation in the decision-
making process still remains to be improved. The project's contribution to revitalizing the
provincial coordinating structures (the CCTPs) and enabling full participation of all social
groups in planning, implementation and control processes have created a positive dynamic for
good governance and social accountability mechanisms in managing the local investment
fund (LIF).

Based on these assessments, the overall risk to development outcome is rated as low.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Although building on the experience and achievements of the successful Natural Resource
Management project (the PNGT), the preparation period for the CBRD still took two years.
As indicated above, this was in large part due to the decision taken at the time of appraisal to
build a national program that placed a stronger emphasis on the capacity building and
institutional support necessary at all levels to support the rural decentralization agenda. This
decision turned out to be the right one since it allowed the project to have a greater
institutional impact, even though it contributed to implementation delays in the start-up of
project activities. In preparing this operation, the Bank put in place a PPF and mobilized



                                               17

substantial qualified human resources to cover all required technical and institutional fields of
expertise for such kind of project. The Bank team reviewed all existing national strategies and
programs and designed the project to comply with these strategies and government vision on
decentralization. There were also good coordination efforts with other donors leading to
effective collaboration and co-financing (Danida, IFAD, UNDP) to support the government
program through the CBRD.

However, despite of these achievements, the time between board approval and project start up
was too long. The board approved the project on December 2000 and, it took almost six
months to sign the Credit Agreement on June 2001. Although essential personnel were in
place just one month after signature, the project was effective only in December 2001 and
fully operational by April 2002. There are two reasons at least to explain this discrepancy: (i)
the deferred ratification of the signed Credit Agreement by the National Assembly, since
there was no session between June and October, and (ii) the delayed preparation of the project
manual of financial management procedures due long recruitment procedures of the
consultant. In addition, the deployment of personnel at provincial level was furthermore
postponed due to the late acquisition of the equipments and vehicles because of the Ivory
Cost crisis. All project equipment was procured through Ivory Cost which was already
experiencing its first political problems with huge economic effects on Burkina Faso.


The Quality at entry was rated by QAG 2001 as marginally satisfactory (3 on a 4-point scale)
which was mapped to moderately unsatisfactory (4) on the new 6-point scale adopted in 2006.
The team feels that a moderately satisfactory rating is more appropriate given that most of the
reasons for delayed implementation were outside control of the team.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory

Project supervision was carried out regularly during the project lifetime with adequate skills
mix, except for the period before MTR. During this period, the Bank team did not include a
safeguard specialist; this explains why activities of the ESMF to mitigate eventual
environmental and social impacts were not carried out properly initially. Problems were
identified during supervision missions and adequate remedial measures were taken to boost
project performance and improve achievements of indicators. A good example is the
adjustment of the Land Tenure Security Pilot Operation after MTR to refocus the objectives
of the component and adapt implementation responsibilities in line with competencies and
capacity of each responsible agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating for Bank performance can be rated Satisfactory, even though the quality at
entry was moderately satisfactory due to slow start up process. After implementation start, the
Bank team paid great attention to the quality of project supervision and made each time
appropriate recommendations to improve implementation. The mid-term review was essential
to take sound decisions on particular activities. Supervision of the project from the field
contributed to a hands-on approach and rapid problem solving.



                                               18

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Government performance is rated highly satisfactory

There was a high level of ownership on the part of the Government of Burkina Faso during
the preparation phase of the project. The Government was very active and committed during
this critical stage and did everything needed to prepare the different components of the
project. The Government made available resources for the project teams from various
agencies to participate actively in designing and preparing the project throughout the long
preparation period. All Government strategies (PRSP, PNDRD, LPDRD) important for the
project design were ready, and the authorities maintained the course on the decentralization
agenda all along project implementation. Key Government institutions responsible for the
Decentralization policy and Land Tenure regulations worked closely with the project to
ensure sound implementation of the project.


 Box 1: Counterpart funding                                        Despite of effectiveness delays, the
 At appraisal, the government contribution was estimated at US     government appreciated the project
 $15.41   million.   However,     during   the  first  year    of  and conducted it in a sound manner
 implementation, a national portfolio review conducted jointly     so that the development objective
 by the government, the World Bank and other donors                was    met.    Furthermore,     the
 concluded that the cumulated counterpart funding for all
 projects was a reason that hampered projects' disbursements.      government      demonstrated     its
 This was due to three economic shocks the country did face the    commitment by negotiating for
 same year: (i) the break out of the crisis in Côte d'Ivoire, (ii) more funding for the second phase.
 the decline of cotton price, the country's main export product,   Also noteworthy is the regular and
 and (iii) the deficit of rainfall. Based on this fact, the        timely    Government      financial
 Government of Burkina Faso requested and obtained a revision
 of the amount of the counterpart funding to the project. In       contribution    to    the   project
 2003, the DCA was revised accordingly. The new agreed             implementation in compliance with
 amount was brought down to the amount of US $7.41 million         the Credit agreement.
 which the government paid timely all along the project
 lifetime.                                                         Soon after the first implementation
                                                                   year,  the    counterpart   funding
evolved from US $15.41 million to US $7.41 million according to the economic situation the
country was facing at that time. The Development Credit Agreement was then amended
accordingly (see Box 1 above).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Implementing Agency performance is rated highly satisfactory

The implementing agency is subdivided into the national coordination unit and the provincial
coordination entities. The national coordination unit was well staffed with competent and
dynamic experts with a minimal turnover of staff which was advantageous for continuity.
During the project implementation period, there was no report of financial mismanagement or
any misprocurement issue at national or provincial level. The implementing agency was also
able to establish a sound and comprehensive M&E system to track project activities and
progress against output and outcome indicators. The implementing agency was able to
disburse on time the entire credit and to timely close the financial statement before the grace



                                                     19

period. Given the fact that there were no shortcomings in the project's fiduciary management
all along the period, the overall performance rating is assessed as highly satisfactory. This is
also in line with ISR ratings on financial and project management.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Overall Borrower Performance is rated highly satisfactory

The Borrower's overall performance is rated highly satisfactory. It demonstrated a high level
of commitment to project's objectives by staying the course on the decentralization agenda
and making needed resources available. In addition, the Borrower proved a high level of
ownership by initiating a project review mission by a parliamentarian delegation which led to
an expansion of project activities benefiting to 50% more villages than initially planned. All
financial audits were submitted timely (before June 30 every year) and were without reserve
and the project complied satisfactory with all legal covenants.


6. Lessons Learned

The major lessons drawn from the implementation and outcome of this operation, as already
incorporated in the design and implementation arrangements for phase II, can be summarized
as following:

High ownership of project activities. The project approach and the implementation
procedures of the local investment fund (LIF) were very critical to give more responsibility to
the different actors, those of government institutions, but particularly at the community level.
This allowed a better ownership of local investments and will therefore increase awareness
for appropriate maintenance and sustainability.       The approach has proven that if local
communities have been given the opportunity, they are capable to manage their own
development and be at the center of the decision-making process. In addition, the active
involvement of the government institutions in the project implementation contributed widely
to their capacity development and will ensure the sustainability of the results achieved.

Adaptability and flexibility of project implementation are essential for such kinds of
projects. The execution of community based programs necessitates a good knowledge of
local conditions and the adoption of simple management procedures. Without a minimum of
flexibility regarding for example the direct transfer of funds to communities and the
confidence on self control mechanisms on funds disbursement, it would not be possible to
execute a large number of micro-projects in a short term period.

Strong investment in capacity building at all levels is essential to foster local development.
The implementation of such a program requires the development of capacities of all
institutional and technical actors on the field. This program was essential to enable the
adherence of state decentralized structures, and beneficiary communities to the project
approach and enhance information and communication among stakeholders. It is also
important to note that information and communication enhancement among stakeholders is
mainly the merit of the Project's M&E system, indicating that investing in M&E can be very
useful and worthwhile.

Effective harmonization is critical to maximize local development impact and government
leadership is key. The program has shown that pulling together funds can be critical to make


                                               20

a difference at beneficiary level. As a multi-donor financed program, the CBRD was in a
position to improve donor coordination through joint missions, concerted interventions, and
support for a national program. However, despite donor commitment to the Paris Declaration,
and the creation of a national consultative framework (CNCPDR) between partners on rural
development, donors were not able to agree on a common approach for all decentralized rural
development interventions and the harmonization agenda didn't advance as expected. One of
the reasons may have been due to lack of political will and institutional and human capacity
to lead such a national initiative towards harmonization. Better results seem to have been
achieved at provincial level through the CCTPs, where there was strong buy-in of local
administration and donors. The implementation of this program in collaboration with
different partners has shown that without strong government leadership, alignment of
intervention modalities and harmonization cannot be fully achieved.


7. Comments on Issues raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/
Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agency

Comments from the Borrower were received (see Annex 7) and relevant issues taken into
account.

(b) Co-financiers and Other partners and stakeholders

Comments were received from IFAD (in form of track changes in the main document),
UNDP and DANIDA (see Annex 8). Relevant comments from these partners were
incorporated in the final document.




                                              21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal          Appraisal    Actual/Late         Percentage

             Components                 Estimate                       st Estimate         Appraisal
                                      Total (USD       Estimate IDA       (USD                IDA
                                       millions)      (USD millions)    millions)
Local Capacity Building                        11.38             5.48     7.48              136.97
Local Investment Fund (LIF)                    54.79           33.75      48.70             144.29
Institutional Capacity Building                26.79           12.73      11.15              87.55
Land Tenure Security Pilot                      3.82             3.10      0.85              27.33
Project Coordination, Administration,
M&E                                             0.00           10.30

PPF                                                                       1.84
                 Total Baseline Cost          107.45           60.50      74.39             122.95

Physical Contingencies                          0.90             0.80                          0.00

Price Contingencies                             6.50             5.40     0.00                0.00
                 Total Project Costs          114.85           66.70      74.39             111.52




(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
              Source of Funds                   Type of          Estimate
                                              Cofinancing          (USD          Estimate           of

                                                                 millions)    (USD millions) Appraisal

Borrower                                  Counterpart
                                          funding                  15.41            7.47         48.46%5

Local Communities                         Contribution             10.96           15.93         145.38%

DENMARK, Govt. of                         Parallel Financing
                                          Grant                     3.96            3.88         98.08%

International Development Association
(IDA)                                     Credit                   66.70           74.39         111.53%

International Fund for Agriculture
Development                               Credit                   14.75           12.56         85.14%

UNDP                                      Parallel Financing        3.07                           0.00
                   Total                                          114.85          114.23         99.46%




5 Government contribution was decreased after the first implementation year (For details, see Box 1 above)




                                                      22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Local Capacity Building

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

This component is composed of three sub-components: (a) Village level consultations, (b)
CVGT/CIVGT training programs, and (c) Technical support to community organizations.
Three key performance indicators were specified under this component: (i) the number of
beneficiaries with at least 75% of their annual investment plan satisfactorily completed
(quantity and quality); (ii) the number of representatives and participatory CVGT/CIVGT
established, trained and satisfactorily functioning; and (iii) the number and type of
beneficiaries having received literacy training.


All three indicators have been met in a satisfactory manner. For the first indicator, the project
succeeded in supporting targeted rural communities to establish 2961 CVGTs on a
participatory basis. This is more than the planed objective of 2000 villages at appraisal. This
was conducted through a process of village sensitization campaigns, participatory planning
resulting in the elaboration of village development plans (plans de gestion des terroirs). A
total of 2986 villages have adequately implemented their annual investment plans with
project support. For 25 villages, the development plans were already elaborated with support
of other partners (French and Dutch cooperation) with whom the project collaborated well.
Based on the project report conducted during 20076 (which assessed intermediary results),
100 percent of surveyed villages have completed at least 98 percent of their micro-projects
according to annual investment plans, widely above the target of 75 percent.

With regard to the second indicator, all CVGTs benefited also from a wide range of training
sessions centered on organizational, management and technical issues. However the
constitution of the CIVGTs was abandoned following the change in government's policy
option regarding rural decentralization in the country. According to the same study mentioned
earlier, 88.20 percent of the CVGTs were able to elaborate their annual investments plans
subsequently to the plan de gestion des terroirs between 2002 and 2006, and 71.48 percent
held regularly self evaluation forums in the same period. These facts are tangible indications
for good functioning village councils. On HIV/AIDS, a specific awareness raising program
was successfully conducted in 12 provinces not benefiting from support of the CNLS. Thus,
231 departmental and village committees against AIDS were put in place and around 2000
persons (counting systemically women) were mobilized and trained.

Concerning the third indicator, the project contributed to build 882 new literacy training
centers and equipped 629. Overall, 58 205 beneficiaries attended initial literacy training
courses, and 35 801 received a complementary in-depth training session. In addition, the
program supported training for 235 potential "encadreurs".

This component is rated satisfactory because all indicators have been met, and even some
above target.




6PNGT, Deuxième rapport de suivi des résultats intermédiaires du PNGT2, June 2007




                                                    23

Component 2: Local Investment Fund (LIF)

Achievements under this component are rated highly satisfactory.

This is a key component of the project (about 48 percent of total financing) and the most
successful one. It is composed of two windows: (i) funding for village and inter-village sub-
projects (< US$ 30,000); and (ii) resources dedicated to provinces (> US$ 30,000 - < US
150,000) for critical structural infrastructure works benefiting a large number of villages.
Key performance indicator under this component is that 75 percent of local investments
realized are technically sound and cost effectively produced.

Altogether 9,622 contracts were signed between                                              Breakdown of Investments

the project and CVGT/CIVGT and funds                                           45
                                                                                         40.63
transferred into village council accounts opened                               40

in local financing institutions. A total of 18,250                             35
                                                                                    29.68
                                                                               30                                    Social Infrastructures
well-documented micro projects were designed                                   25                                    Water Supply

and implemented through a proven participatory                      egatnecr                         18.77           Productive Investments
                                                                               20                                    NRM
                                                                            Pe
approach between 2002 and 2007.                    In total                    15                                    Others

                                                                               10                8.5
US$ 48,700,000 were disbursed under this                                       5                          2.42
component (65.5 percent of total project cost).                                0

A total of 3,0137 villages benefited from these                                         Type of Investments


investments which covered numerous activities including: (a) social infrastructures (health,
education, and water supply infrastructures); (b) productive and economic investments for
improving agricultural and livestock production; and (c) NRM activities, including soil and
water conservation technologies as well as reforestation and forest management techniques.

The project achieved substantial results in terms of number and diversity of productive and
socio-economic village investments financed under this component. It is obvious that the
major concerns of the rural population were taken into account, notably: potable water supply
facilities, social infrastructures (schools, health facilities, literacy centers), and soil and water
conservation activities for agriculture and livestock, including investments in NRM.

The majority of infrastructures realized under this component were found technically in good
condition according to the recently conducted survey as part of the ICR. By and large, almost
90% of the facilities are technically sound and regularly used by the beneficiaries. This is
particularly true for 100% of health facilities, 87.5% of schools, 98.6% of non-formal
education facilities, 91.8% of water supply infrastructures, 93.4% of storage facilities, and
98.7% of cattle vaccination facilities.

With regards to `social and economic infrastructures', the investments funded under this
component were related mainly to human capital building, social infrastructure, and water
supply. The most significant physical outputs were as follows: 103 health facilities, 1066
training facilities (184 class rooms, 882 literacy and village training centers), 2,132 bore wells
equipped with pumps (1,088 new and 1,044 improved), 641 wells (535 new and 106
improved); in addition 3 village mini-water supply systems, 73 small dams, and 4 water
reservoirs were installed.



7The difference between the number of villages having benefited from investments (3013) and the number of established
CVGTs (2961) is due to the fact that 52 CVGTs were already established by other partners, and became eligible to the FIL.




                                                         24

With reference to `productive investments for improved agricultural and livestock
production', the project supported also the realization of 248 cattle vaccination facilities, 713
ha of lowland, and about 300 ha vegetable gardens/horticultural perimeters, 48 ha irrigation
perimeters, and 486 km of feeder roads/pasture ways.

Under `NRM activities', the most significant outputs were related to soil and water
conservation activities which included: nearly 122 378 fosses fumières, 42 122 ha improved
land through stone bunds and zai technique, and about 42 000 m revitalized small dykes
(couverture végétale de diguettes). In addition, the project supported also activities related to
reforestation and natural resource protection: about 34 000 seedling plants produced, 17 286
ha reforested, and about 220 km river banks protected.

Beyond physical realizations, the project succeeded also in spreading out and successfully
transferring appropriate agricultural technologies related to soil and water conservation
techniques that contributed to yields and agricultural revenues' increase. More than 97% of
farmers have confirmed that they now use these techniques widely, and one can say these are
becoming very common among all producers throughout the country.

Economically, the investments realized are generally justified. While for water supply
facilities and vaccination parks, economic and financial rates of return tend to be marginal,
micro-projects related to soil and water conservation activities demonstrate very positive
trends. In fact, most of social and economic infrastructures include tangible social benefits
with a direct contribution to improvement of living conditions in rural areas. At the same time,
the investments costs realized under the project were largely below the country's norms for
the same kind of investments. For example, costs for school construction under the project
were 30 percent lower than for other programs (government structures, NGOs, etc.).

Through the Local Investment Fund, the project has been able to contribute effectively to the
program development objective to increase the productive capacity of the rural sector and
improve the effectiveness of public investments by developing the institutional and
organizational capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan, implement and
manage their own development process. For this reason this component was assessed as
highly satisfactory.


Component 3: Institutional Capacity Building

Achievements under this component are rated highly satisfactory.

This component was designed to provide institutional support to local, provincial, regional
and national institutions with the aim to reach the three following outputs: (a) provincial
coordination committees established and/or revitalized; (b) capacity of service providers
strengthened; and (c) a functioning communication and knowledge sharing network between
local, provincial and national level established.     Five key performance indicators were
identified under this component: (i) number of representative and participatory provincial
coordination committees established, trained and functioning; (ii) number of service
providers trained and `in-demand'; (iii) at least 75% of the villages covered by the project
have received sound capacity building support; (iv) number of thematic working groups
functioning effectively to build and share knowledge on approaches to decentralized rural
development; and (v) percentage of stakeholders (NGOs, donors, CCTP, CVGT, ministries)



                                              25

satisfied with the quality and accessibility of information services provided/managed by the
project. All five indicators have been met with satisfaction.


For the first indicator, 45 provincial coordination committees (the `CCTPs') were revitalized
and trained. A total of 481 meetings were held by the CCTPs since their establishment in
2002. A total of 12 training sessions were organized for the CCTPs involving various themes.
Overall, it is estimated that most of these CCTPs are still functioning. However, the question
of sustained financing of these CCTPs beyond project support still remains to be resolved.
Undeniably, the project intervention has been crucial to revitalize the provincial coordination
committees in close cooperation with the UNDP funded Governance project8. These CCTPs
have been very instrumental for a better consultation/communication between public services,
development partners and other actors intervening in the provinces. The project contribution
to maintaining the committees functioning was very crucial, and officials acknowledged that
the CCTPs have become vital ingredients in Government's decentralization and planning
strategy at local level.


Concerning the second indicator, overall 1,337 service providers were trained with project
support. These service providers included consultant firms, local enterprises and local
animateurs engaged to assist the CVGTs in the elaboration and implementation of their local
development (PGT) and annual investment plans. All trained service providers are involved
in project supported activities, since this capacity building program was a response to existing
demand.

The third indicator was largely met. Accordingly, one hundred percent of villages covered by
the project (3,013) benefited from adequate capacity building programs: almost 5.5 million
training days were delivered to targeted beneficiaries.            In particular, 13 518 CVGTs'
members were trained on elaboration and implementation of micro-projects.

As to the fourth indicator, the project initiated the establishment of a national forum for
consultation among development partners on rural development and set up three technical
committees to monitor socio-economic, environmental and institutional impacts.              The
project's contribution has been most successful on the production and test of the manual for
communal development planning in preparation of the rural decentralization process. The
validation of this tool-kit for the Communal development Plan intended to rural communes
has been an important achievement. There is no doubt that the project made a valuable
contribution to the decentralization policy in the country, as stated by the ministry in charge
of Decentralization itself considering the CBRD as "a launching ramp for decentralization"
in Burkina Faso.

Regarding the fifth indicator, there was no direct measurement on opinion of various
stakeholders a propos quality and accessibility of information services provided/managed by
the project. However, the beneficiaries' survey conducted by the project indicated that the
provincial technical services were satisfied with the project's role in the revitalization of the
CCTPs. There was also mention of satisfaction of the parliamentarians who conducted a
review mission on the ground as well as the Project steering committee on the project results.



8PACGL: Projet d'Appui à la Concertation et à la Gouvernance Locale




                                                   26

Under the Institutional Capacity Building component, it was planned to include a pilot to
support the decentralization process and test the social, economic, fiscal and institutional
viability of about 5-6 rural municipalities, specially in the areas of fiscal and financial
decentralization. This could have been possible, had the government been able to put in place
the rural communes early enough before the end of the first phase.                 Nevertheless, the
authorities failed to realize beforehand this commitment. Elections for rural municipalities
were only held in mid-2006, only a half year prior to official project closing date. As a result,
it was too late for the project to comply with this engagement.

Component 4: Land tenure Pilot Operation

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory.

This component was designed to help improve land tenure security and access for all users by
generating the following outputs: (a) a practical methodological guide (toolbox) for securing
land tenure developed; (b) a functioning forum established for building knowledge and
sharing experiences on approaches to tenure security; and (c) a national strategy/action plan
for land tenure security drafted. Two key performance indicators were identified under this
component: (i) heightened awareness of the constraints and possible solutions to tenure
security at the provincial and national levels; and (ii) percentage of stakeholders within pilot
zones with a perception of increased tenure security.


Activities under this component were delayed due to the complexity of implementing these
tasks. Until project mid-term review, results obtained were not satisfactorily. As a result, a
decision was made to simplify and
streamline implementation by:
                                                Box 2: The CNSFMR
                                                The     CNSFMR,       Commission      Nationale     de
(i)     transferring the output related to      Sécurisation Foncière en Milieu Rural, was put in
        `knowledge         building      and    place in September 2002 by the Government within
        capitalization'   to   the   national   the Ministry of Agriculture, Hydraulics and Fisheries.
        committee in charge of land tenure      This commission regroups all ministries concerned by

        security    in    rural   area,   the   the land tenure issue in rural areas, as well as
                                                representatives of NGOs, municipalities, associations
        CNSFMR (Commission Nationale            and private sector involved in this question and is
        de Sécurisation Foncière en Milieu      chaired by the General Secretary of the Ministry in
        Rural- see Box 2 opposite); and         charge of Agriculture. The commission meets on
(ii)    (ii)  narrowing     the    scope   of   regular basis to work on the coherence of the different

        activities for which the project        texts related to the management of rural land tenure.
                                                The secretariat of the CNSFMR is ensured by the
        would be held accountable by (a)        DGFROP which creation was in fact recommended by
        focusing only on the promotion of       the commission itself. The project support enabled the
        land tenure security of vulnerable      meetings to be held regularly.
        groups benefiting from project
        investments; and (b) contributing to the national debate led by the CNSFMR to
        promote political, institutional and legal context of rural land tenure management.

Following these adjustments, both key performance indicators were subsequently met. For
the first indicator related to `heightened awareness', the project contributed to: (i) setting-up
the national committee in charge of land tenure security in rural areas (CNSFMR) and
facilitate local commissions for conflict management between farmers and herders in certain
provinces (more than 40 of such commissions were put in place); (ii) elaborate the draft
national policy framework on land tenure security which, following consultations at national


                                                27

and regional levels, was officially adopted by the Government; and (iii) enable the signature
of the `PV de cession'9 to secure communities' investments sites (3,388 infrastructures were
concerned). Concerning the second indicator, 100 percent of the communities' investment
sites in all pilot zones within 6 provinces have been secured through 202 signed `PV de
palabre'10.
The revision of the component after mid-term review reflects undeniably the difficulties
encountered in implementing this component.                    Indicators according to the reassigned
responsibilities under the revised component were certainly met, nonetheless the experiences
conducted on securing user rights, initiating the formalization of customary systems, and
resolving conflicts between different land users on pilot sites haven't been capitalized on yet.
On the other hand, it is admitted today in Burkina Faso that the implementation of this
component was a unique opportunity to launch and maintain a national debate on this very
sensible and complex topic.

The government Law on Agrarian and Land Tenure Reform, elaborated in 1984, was difficult
to implement because of the co-existence of two different land tenure regimes, the modern
regime and the traditional non-written custom recognized by all citizens. The project helped
implementing successfully this Law by using project investments to be secured within six
pilot regions.

Parallel to establishing concrete experience on land tenure security, implementing this
component        led      also    to    the   Box 3: The DGFROP
elaboration of a new law on                   The DGFROP, the Direction Générale du Foncier Rural et des
Decentralization (Law No. 055-                Organisations Paysannes, is a technical department within the
2004)11 in Burkina Faso to advance            Ministry in charge of Agriculture, created in June 2006. The
government the decentralization               department following missions:
agenda. The adoption of this new
Law was influential to expand the             · Coordinate at central level all activities of different government
                                                 entities dealing with all Land Tenure issues in rural areas in
decentralization       to    the     entire      order to harmonize legal, technical, and administrative aspects of
country      covering        302      rural      such interventions;
communes (targeted by the phase 2             · Coordinate and animate activities related to the elaboration of the
of   the     CBRD),         13     regions       legal and regulatory framework on land tenure security issues in

organized            as          territorial     rural areas;
                                              · Follow-up the implementation of the Land tenure Security Policy
collectivities,      and     49      urban       in rural areas; and
communes. One should mention                  · Ensure the technical and administrative secretariat of the
that before the adoption of this                 CNSFMR.
Law,     there       were      no     rural
communes in Burkina Faso. The                 The project supported this department by making available
                                              resources in 2006 and 2007 (CFA 300 million) to contribute to the
project was then very successful in           preparation of the Land Tenure Policy, the organization of diverse
supporting the government in this             workshops, as well as a national Forum to adopt the policy before
issue.                                        submission to the National Assembly. For the second phase, a total
                                              of US $ one million has been allocated to the DGFROP for the next
                                              five years.

9`PV de cession' means consentement des propriétaires coutumiers à céder une partie de leurs patrimoine
foncier pour abriter les investissements communautaires par la signature d'un acte.

10 `PV de palabre' refers to a similar procedure validated by the administrative authority, the prefect
departmental. This concerns only the 6 pilot provinces on land tenure

11Loi No.055-2004/AN portent Code Général des Collectivités Territoriales (CDCT) au Burkina Faso du 24
Décembre 2004, promulguée le 14 Avril 2005



                                                       28

Finally, the Land Tenure component has in fact been instrumental and the most challenging
one in term of policy change. As a result, the government advocated keeping up this activity
for the second phase as an independent component executed by the accountable unit within
the ministry, the Direction Générale du Foncier Rural et des Organisations Paysannes ­
DGFROP - see Box 3 above).

The project assisted this unit become operational very quickly. In addition, as mentioned
earlier, the DGFROP was also created following the different debates held at regional and
national levels on land tenure policy. This unit will be responsible for executing the
component during the second phase.

Under the DGFROP, were also elaborated (i) the National Policy for Land Tenure Security
for rural areas adopted in March 2007, and (ii) the draft Law on Land tenure Security, as well
as its implementation texts to adopted in March 2008 by the National Assembly.

For these different reasons, the overall achievement under this component can be rated as
satisfactory.

Component 5: Administration, Monitoring and Project Coordination

Achievements under this component are rated highly satisfactory

The component was designed as support for: (a) the coordination office/forum of the overall
program (the PNDRD ­ Programme National de Développement Rural Décentralisé); (b) the
coordination and management of the IDA-supported project (the CBRD); and (c) the program
and project monitoring and evaluation. Three key performance indicators were identified
under this component: (i) decrease in the time lag between CVGT contract and disbursement
of annual investment fund; (ii) number of service provider contracts satisfactorily completed
within the given time and budget frame; and (iii) decrease in the ratio of administrative costs
to local investment.


For the first sub-component related to the overall program (PNDRD), the project
administration unit was able to carry out an impressive deployment of the diverse activities
throughout the country and to coordinate its efforts (approaches, resources) with other
partners. To foster harmonization on decentralized rural development among all partners and
facilitate effective national coverage of the program, a National Forum (the Cadre National
de Concertation des Partenaires au Développement) was put in place in 2005 and is still
functioning. Since its creation, the Forum held two general assemblies in June 2006 and
2007 under the coordination of the permanent secretariat at the Ministry of Economy and
Finance. The secretariat is funded with the contributions of all partners. This forum includes
representatives of the government, civil society and development partners. The project teams
were also able to collaborate and coordinate effectively with other stakeholders operating in
the provinces.

Regarding the second sub-component on coordination and management of the IDA-supported
project, the project coordination unit demonstrated over the years a high ability and autonomy
to manage and carry out the entire program. The project coordination unit was able to
provide timely funding to beneficiaries within the established deadlines to realize their micro-
projects. In total, 30 billion FCFA were disbursed to communities, meaning an average of 6
billion FCFA per annum over the five years project lifetime. All agreed key performance


                                              29

indicators under this sub-component were achieved: (i) the time lag between CVGT contract
and disbursement of annual investment fund was decreased from 120 days to 45 days
between 2002 and 2004, following the increase of the initial deposit from F CFA 750 million
to F CFA 4.5 billion; (ii) 98 percent of service providers contracts were satisfactorily and
timely completed within the budget frame; and (iii) the ratio of administrative costs to local
investments decreased from 2.8 to 0.10 from 2002 to 2006. One should also acknowledge the
very good disbursement of the project, as well as the successful and timely financial closing
statement before the grace period.

As to the third sub-component on program and project monitoring and evaluation, a sound
M&E system was put in place taking into account the regular monitoring of economic,
environmental and institutional program and project impacts. All three specialists were
recruited timely and demonstrated high competency                12 . A manual of procedures for
implementing the project M&E was elaborated in 2002. The project M&E system was built
with support of the Danish cooperation with following results:                      (i) establishment of
methodologies for monitoring of the three aspects (economic, environmental and
institutional); (ii) baseline studies (environmental study in 2002, and economic and
institutional studies in 2004;); and (iii) intermediary studies showing results and impacts
(environmental studies in 2003 through 2006; economic studies in 2005 and 2006). The
information system built through the M&E was able to furnish data for management and
monitoring purposes. The system succeeded to provide real-time monitoring to capture
physical and financial execution of the project. At the same time financial audits were carried
out on regular basis, and audits reports submitted yearly before deadline (June 30).




12The chief of the M&E unit was recruited by the Bank as Operations Officer at the Burkina Country Office




                                                    30

Appendix 1 (Annex2): Project key performance indicators (as stated in the DCA dated June 7, 2001)


PDO as stated in the Document of Credit agreement: the objective of the project is to (i) increase the productive capacity of the rural sector and (ii) improve the
effectiveness of public investments by developing the institutional and organizational capacity necessary to enable local communities to plan, implement, and manage their
own development process.

          Indicator Reference                     Performance Indicators (Baseline/Target)                                  Status as of June 30, 2007

A. Sector related CAS Goal:

Reduce poverty and improve the living
conditions and productive potential of
the rural population

· Incidence of rural poverty

· Human development indicators




                                                                                      31

B. En-of-Program Indicators

Sustainable improvement in the           · Increase in household income at all socio-           · Increased communities' awareness in management of the natural
productive capacity of rural resources      economic levels                                       resource base
(natural, physical, human, financial) and
the emergence of a more dynamic local    · Improvement in the status of the natural resource
economy through empowered rural             base (soil fertility, vegetative cover, ...)        · Sustained yield increases in the agricultural sector due to
communities leading their own local                                                               improved agricultural practices and introduction of new
development process
                                         · Increase in yields of basic food and cash crops        technologies;

                                                                                                · New land tenure policy adopted by the government

                                         · Evolution towards sustainable land use patterns
Program phasing:

Phase 1: Local organizations and                                                                · Almost 35% of rural population benefit now from better access
institutional mechanisms                 · Increase in the % of the rural population benefiting   to basic services due to project activities
established/strengthened and refined        from access to basic services


                                                                                                · At least, in each village 5 types of micro-projects (social,
Phase 2: Accelerated emergence of        · Evolution in the volume and diversity, quality and     economic and environmental) realized and providing quality and
representative and participatory rural      cost of service provided at local level               cost effective services to the communities
municipalities and increased local
economic growth

Phase 3: Program consolidation and       · Rural municipalities established with successful

transition to a sustainable system of       mechanisms of sustainable resource mobilization
                                                                                                · 302 rural municipalities established before phase 1 closing date:
fiscal transfers                                                                                  Phase 2 target



C. Outcome / Impact Indicators           · At least 75% of villages targeted in the first phase · Achieved above target. 2961 villages (against 2000 targeted at
                                            have received capacity building support and have      appraisal) received capacity building and adopted their LDPs
                                            adopted a local development plan                      (148%)
Participatory local development plans
designed and implemented by a large      · At least 60% of beneficiary villages have            · Achieved above target. 2986 have their CVGTs established and
number of local communities                 representative and participatory bodies assuming      have completed their development plans in a satisfactory
progressively allowing the emergence of     their role in local development (planning,            manner. For 25 villages, the development plans were already
rural municipalities with support from      execution and management of local projects) and       elaborated by other partners (149%)
functioning provincial level coordination   have substantially completed their development



                                                                                    32

forums and facilitating regulatory,          plan in a satisfactory manner (economically and
institutional, and fiscal framework at the   socially)
national level.                           · At least 30% of villages have been regrouped into
                                             inter-village development structures that have    · Not achieved. This option was abandoned following the change

                                             already undertaken sub-projects in common.          in government's decentralization policy

                                          · 75% of target provinces have a functioning
                                             representative coordination body (bringing
                                             together the state, representatives of the local
                                             community and development partners) providing     · 45 CCTPs in all 45 provinces were revitalized and well

                                             sound coordination of available resources and       functioning through project intervention. Since the project

                                             quality services to support local development       intervenes only in 26 provinces, this indicator is considered as

                                             efforts.                                            achieved.

                                          · The decentralization law is being implemented
                                             satisfactorily.                                   · Entirely achieved. A new decentralization Law has been
                                                                                                 adopted and is being implemented successfully. Rural
                                                                                                 communes were put in place in April 2006.
                                          · A functioning national forum has made substantial
                                             progress towards harmonization of rural
                                             decentralized development approaches.             · Achieved. The project has initiated the creation of the
                                                                                                 Commission Nationale de Concertation des Partenaires du
                                                                                                 Développement Rural ­CNCPDR, with regular meetings.

                                          · Plans for decreasing the central administrative
                                             structure o the project have been developed and   · Not met. This indicator couldn't be achieved due to extended
                                             partially implemented                               project national coverage after MTR with an increased demand
                                                                                                 on supervision.



Output Indicators from each
component




                                                                                    33

(1) Local capacity (organizational,    (1) Local capacity
managerial, financial, and technical)
improved                              · # of beneficiaries villages with at least 75% of     · 2986 beneficiary villages with (i) 88% capable to elaborate their
                                            their annual investment plan satisfactory          annual investment plans, and (ii) 98% being able to complete
                                            completed (quantity and quality)                   their investments plans;


                                       · # of representative and participatory               · 13 518 members of all established CVGTs (2986) benefited
                                            CVGT/CIVGT established, trained and                from a wide range of training sessions on organizational,
                                            satisfactorily functioning                         management and technical issues. The concept of CIVGT was
                                                                                               abandoned. Therefore no training at this level

                                       · # and type of beneficiaries having received literacy· 58 205 representatives of beneficiaries attended literacy training

                                            training                                           sessions and 35 801 received complementary in-depth trainings;
                                                                                               Special training for 235 potential encadreurs



(2) Local investments funds realized   (2) Local investment fund
and sustainably managed               · 75% of local investments realized are technically    · About 90% of local investments realized are technically sound
                                            sound and cost effectively produced                and cost effective (a total of 18250 micro-projects for an amount
                                                                                               of US $ 48,7 million implemented by the communities)


(3) Institutional capacity built at    (3) Institutional capacity building
provincial and national levels for
decentralized rural development       · # of representative and participatory provincial     · 12 training sessions organized for all member of the 45 CCTPs,
                                            coordination committees established, trained and   and 481 meetings were held by the CCTPs since their
                                            functioning                                        revitalization

o Provincial coordination committees   · # of service providers trained and "in-demand"      · 1337 service providers trained
    established and/or revitalized

                                       · At least 75% of the villages covered by the project · Largely met. 100% of villages covered by the project benefited
o Capacity of service providers             have received sound capacity building support      adequate capacity building programs with 5.5 million training
    strengthened                                                                               days

                                       · # of national thematic working groups functioning
o A functioning communication &             effectively to build and share knowledge on      · Three (3) national technical committees set up with project
    knowledge sharing network between                                                          support to monitor socio-economic, environmental and



                                                                                  34

    local, provincial and national level      approaches to decentralized rural development      institutional impacts
    established                                                                               · No direct measurement of this indicator. However provincial

                                         · % of stakeholders (NGOs, donors, CCTP, CVGT,          technical services very satisfied with the revitalization of the

                                              ministries) satisfied with the quality and         CCTPs

                                              accessibility of information services
                                              provided/managed by the project

(4) Land tenure pilot study               (4) Land tenure pilot operation

· A practical methodological guide        · Heightened awareness of the constraints and       · Achieved. Set up of a national committee (CNSFMR) + 40 local
     (toolbox) for securing land tenure       possible solutions to tenure security at the       commissions for conflict management between herders an
     developed                                provincial and national levels                     farmers, and elaboration of the national policy framework for

· A functioning forum established for     · % of stakeholders within pilot zones with a          land tenure security

     building knowledge and sharing           perception of increased tenure security         · Achieved. 100% of stakeholders within 6 pilot zones with
     experiences on approaches to tenure                                                         secured infrastructures sites through 202 signed `PV de palabre'
     security                                                                                    for 3388 infrastructures

· A national strategy / action plan for
     land tenure security drafted

(5) Administration, monitoring and        (5) Project management and monitoring
coordination of project                  · Decrease in the time lag between CVGT contract     · Achieved. Time lag decreased from 120 days to 45 days
· The administrative capacity to              and disbursement of annual investment fund         between 2002 and 2004
     manage a national coverage, "faire
     faire" program

· A functioning information system        · # of service provider contracts satisfactorily    · Achieved. 98% of service providers contracts satisfactorily and

     effectively used for project             completed within the given time and budget frame   timely completed with the budget frame

     management and monitoring            · Decrease in the ratio of administrative costs to  · Achieved. Decrease in ratio of administrative costs to local
     purposes                                 local investment                                   investments from 2.8 to 0.10 from 2002 to 2006




                                                                                     35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PAD did not attempt a detailed economic and financial analysis of the overall project. It
was admitted at appraisal that for APL operations of this nature, such detailed analysis was
required for the first phase; however operations under this phase were largely directed
towards institutional strengthening and provision of basic infrastructure through demand-
driven community funds.              Under the project's approach, as already indicated, each
community concerned made its final choice about investments undertaken, based on its own
goals and ecological constraints. This demand-driven and adaptable nature of the program did
not lend itself to standard financial analysis.

For the second phase of the project, an economic and financial analysis was conducted for the
investments made under the CBRD as a proxy for the future economic benefits and costs. It
was admitted that this analysis could serve as an Ex-Post Economic Analysis of CBRDP 1
Experience.

Economic Rates of Return. The types of sub-projects financed include a mix of productive
and social investments. For certain types, economic rate of return analysis is possible. For
others, cost effectiveness analysis is more appropriate because benefits cannot be measured
fully in monetary terms or measurement is difficult or can only be done over a very long term.
The overall portfolio ERR depends on the relative weight of certain sub-project types. The
distribution of investments under Phase I is presented in the Table below. Eight main sub-
project types account for 80 percent of investments.

                 SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF CBRDP INVESTMENTS 2002-2006
                                        Percentage of                                     Share in total
       Sub-Project Category             investments       Of which main sub-project types   portfolio
                                         2002-2006

  Water Supply                              40.63         Potable water investments           34.0
  Social Infrastructure                     29.68         Literacy centers                    10.5
                                                          Health infrastructure and            7.2
                                                          equipment
                                                          Classrooms and teacher housing       7.1
  Environmental Management                  15.79         Cordons pierreux                     7.1
                                                          Fosses fumières                      7.8
  Support for Animal Production              4.43         Vaccination facilities               4.0
  Support for Crop Production                4.07         Aménagement Bas Fonds                2.0
  Renewable energy                           1.52
  Reforestation                              1.46
  Road Infrastructure                        1.40
  Other*                                     1.01
  Total                                     100.0                                             79.1
* Includes training and operational research, microfinance, HIV-AIDS prevention and other sub-project types
that each represent less than 1 percent of the portfolio.

As part of Project preparation of the second phase and the ICR exercise, an economic analysis
of CBRD I's 2002-2006 portfolio was carried out, covering 71 percent of the 2002-2006
portfolio, including water supply (potable not agricultural), literacy centers, stone fences


                                                         36

(cordons pierreux), compost pits (fosses fumières), animal vaccination facilities, teacher
housing and classrooms. Ex-post field work was carried out in 30 villages covering six
provinces, with a total of 69 sub-projects analyzed. Rates of return could be calculated on
water supply, fences and compost pits and animal vaccination facilities, which account for
about 53 percent of the previous portfolio. The sample from the study is indicative, so results
should be interpreted with caution, but they point to high rates of return on the portfolio
overall, equivalent to 74% for the portfolio under review:

          Weighted Average of Portfolio Applicable to Rate of Return Analysis
            Sub-sector        Average ex-        Weight in        Weight in           Weighted
                               post rate of     2002-2006         Portfolio        contribution to
                                 return           portfolio     under review        Portfolio ERR

      Potable Water:
    Bore holes (forage)           39%               27%              51%                  20%
       Wells (puits)              56%                7%              13%                   7%
       Stone Fences               50%                7%              13%                   7%
       Compost Pits              265%                8%              15%                  40%
     Vaccination Parks            3%                 4%               8%                   0%
          Total                                     53%             100%             74% (ERR)
      Source: World Bank estimates derived from Konate, S. "Analyse Economique des Investissements
                                    Communaitaires" February, 2007.



Cost-Efficiency Analysis ­ Unit Cost Comparisons. An initial comparison of unit costs
was carried out as part of the ex-post economic analysis study. While comparative data is
scant and often difficult to standardize across highly variable investments, an initial
indication shows that CBRDP I's unit costs were between 34 and 94 percent of sectoral
comparators, with the largest efficiency gains in social infrastructure:

                             Infrastructure Comparative Unit Costs

                                                      Ministère de          Ministère des

     Project Type          CDBRP I (PNGT) l'enseignement de base              resources          %
                                                 et de l'alphabétisation       animales
Classrooms                          3 603 721                 10 500 000                        34%
Vaccination parks                   5 631 730                                      6 000 000    94%
Teacher housing                     4 234 409                  8 700 000                        49%
CPAF                                3 078 909                  4 000 000                        77%

Source: Konate, S. "Analyse Economique des Investissements Communautaires" February, 2007.


Sub-sector economic analysis is further detailed below:

Water supply. Access to clean water improves the health of rural population and reduces
time spent (especially by women) in collecting water. The benefits of improved water
supplies (quantity and quality) on health outcomes are well documented. These health
benefits in turn lead to labor productivity and income gains via a variety of direct and indirect
pathways. The economic rates of return on the water investments quantified only the benefits
in time savings and value of additional water, not the health benefits. The ERR for the 7 bore


                                                    37

hole sub-projects studied ranged from 9 percent to 70 percent with an average of 39 percent.
For the 3 wells reviewed, the ERR ranged from 55 Percent to 58 percent. Sensitivity analysis
found that for bore holes, a 20 percent increase in costs and decrease in benefits would have
resulted in a negative rate of return on only one of the sub-projects and a reduction of the
average ERR to 21 percent, still an acceptable level. For wells, a 20 percent increase in costs
and decrease in benefits would result in a ERR of 34 percent.

Natural Resource Management. Local benefits expected from better natural resource
management include (a) increased productivity of crops and livestock, (b) better ability to
manage the volatility and risks associated with the drought and insect-prone Sahelian
environment, and (c) greater sustainability of resources as depleted assets are restored. In the
Burkina Faso context, for example, national experiences in building rock protective fences
(cordons pierreux) reduces soil loss by between 21 and 61 percent with production gains of
between 58 and 343 percent in low rain years. In the ex-post economic analysis, 7 rock fence
sub-projects were analyzed, with an average ERR of 50 percent, and with average ERR of
over 30 percent even when assumption of cost and benefits were changed by 20 percent.
Compost sub-projects studied had extremely high ERRs, over 200 percent. However, the
rates of return on vaccination facilities was low, averaging 3 percent, with sub-projects that
performed less than 3,000 vaccinations per year showing a negative rate of return.

Beyond the local impacts, environmental rehabilitation has global benefits. The immediate
environmental effects of carbon sequestration from reforestation can be analyzed in economic
terms. Under the assumption that each ha sequester 6tCO2/yr, the reforestation subprojects
(16 638 ha total) sequester 99 828 tCO2 annually or 2 495 700 tCO2 over the next 25 years.13
In addition, with a price of 5 USD for a tCO2 (current price on the European CO2 market),
annual benefits are almost 500 000 USD. With a project life of 25 year, the benefit/cost ratio
is 9.3 (10% discount rate) or 14.5 (5% discount rate). The associated economic internal rate
of return is 103%.

Education. Social rates of return of education estimated for Burkina Faso in 1985 found a
rate of return of 20.1 percent for primary education, 14.9 percent for secondary and 21.3
percent for higher education.14 Private returns to schooling were estimated in 2003 at 9.1
percent for primary, 15.3 percent for secondary and 20.7 percent for higher education.15
Given the high positive externalities associated with a literate population, including
reductions in family size as girl's education attainment rises and a more informed citizenry,
the Government has adopted the Education for All and MDG goals of 100 percent primary
school completion. In terms of specific education investments, the ex-post economic analysis
studied literacy centers, classrooms and teacher housing:




13The assumption is based on similar reforestation projects in Mali and Niger
http://ecocarbone.free.fr/projets/projets.html

14Pscharopoulos and Woodhall « Education for Development: An Analysis of Investment
Choices", World Bank 1985.

15Kazianga, H. « Schooling Returns for Wage Earners in Burkina Faso: Evidence from the
1994 and 1998 Priority Surveys", 2003.



                                              38

    Literacy Centers: While an ERR calculation is not applicable, the study found generally
    low levels of utilization of these centers.

    Classrooms and Teacher Housing: ERR calculation is not pertinent for such kind of social
    investments aimed by the Government to decongesting overcrowded classrooms and
    provide an incentive for stabilizing teaching force to reduce lost days of schooling. A
    cost-efficiency analysis based on infrastructure comparative costs carried out indicates
    high efficiency gains for CBRD's social investments with unit costs between 34 and 49
    percent lower than other sectoral comparators for these two types of investments (see
    table above).

Health. Economic benefits from health investments are well-documented: the direct impacts
of increased labor productivity and avoidance of the potential death of productive family
members. Health shocks to the household are closely related to predict future poverty. And
indirectly, better health results in fewer days lost to schooling, higher birth weights of
newborns and so on.

Maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads: Few roads investments were made under
the previous Project. Demand may increase as rural local governments play a greater role.
Due to limits on sub-project size, most road investments are anticipated to be small-scale
rehabilitations and upgrading of existing rural feeder roads. Better roads will increase access
to markets and social services, such as health and education and reduce transport time and
cost for villagers. Experience from the road sector in Burkina Faso shows that full rate of
return analysis is not carried out on rural feeder roads. Instead, transport sector policy calls
for cost effectiveness indicators to be used for the ranking of rural secondary roads. Under the
existing World Bank-Financed Transport Sector Project, least-cost analysis caps rural road
investments at 2 million FCFA per kilometer. A cost-efficiency analysis-based ranking of all
local projects presented at the provincial levels is being carried out and will inform sub-
project screening.

Other economic benefits: The Project contributed to employment and income generation in
rural areas: (i) directly, through improvement of the productive capacity of the natural
resource base and involvement of local artisans and village workers in the construction of
basic infrastructure funded under the LIF; and ii) indirectly, through the new and/or
additional economic opportunities generated by road improvement and improved capacity for
economic activity due to better health and water supply. Growth multiplier research in West
Africa indicates that each dollar of additional income generated in the agricultural sector will
generate an additional US$1.90 of income in the local economy through the stimulative
impact of spending on local goods and services (Delgado, Hopkins and Kelly, 1998).




                                               39

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes
(a) Task Team members

         Names                         Title             Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Jane C. Hopkins       Senior Agricultural Economist     AFTAR Task Team Leader

Emmanuel Nikiema       Natural Resource Management
                       Specialist                       AFTAR Co-TTL

Andrea Vasquez/
Basra Abdillahi-Chire  Task Team Assistants              AFTFP Task Team Assistants

Mamadou Yaro           Financial Management Specialist  AFTFM  Financial Management
                                                               Specialist
Francois Gadelle       Irrigation Specialist                   Irrigation Specialist

Dirk Prevoo            Operations Officer, Procurement         Operations Officer,
                       accredited                       AFTEN  Procurement accredited
Renée Desclaux        Disbursement Officer                    Disbursement Officer
Pascale Dubois        Senior Legal Counsel              LEGAF Senior Legal Counsel

Ibrahim Nebie          Agricultural Services Specialist AFTEN  Agricultural Services
                                                               Specialist
Yves-Coffi Prudencio   Soil Fertility Specialist               Soil Fertility Specialist
Rémi Kini             Environmental Economist           AFTEN Environmental Economist

Matthieu Koumoin      Traditional Energy Specialist            Traditional Energy
                                                               Specialist
Ibrahim Magagi         Health Sector/AIDS                      Health Sector/AIDS
Celestin Bado          Operations Officer               AFTPR Operations Officer
Arnaud Desmarchelier   Rural Roads Specialist           AFTTR Rural Roads Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Jane C. Hopkins       Senior Agricultural Economist     AFTAR Task Team Leader

Emmanuel Nikiema       Natural Resource Management
                       Specialist                       AFTAR Task Team Leader

Andrew Osei Asibey     Sr Monitoring & Evaluation
                       Specialist                       AFTRL Monitoring & Evaluation

Bepio C. Bado         Sr Operations Officer             AFTPR Sr Operations Officer
Gwladys Nadine
Isabelle Kinda         Team Assistant                   AFMBF Team Assistant

Julien Bernard Labonne Consultant                        SDV  Impact Evaluation
Daniel Moreau          Sr Agriculturist                  AFTS4 Sr Agriculturist
Daniel Murphy          Consultant                        SDV   Consultant

Ibrahim B. Nebie       Sr Agric. Extension Specialist.   AFTS4 Sr Agric. Extension
                                                               Specialist.
Oumar Ouattara         Consultant                       AFMBF Consultant
Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo  Senior Operations Officer          AFTS4 Senior Operations Officer
Aguiratou Savadogo-
Tinto                  Operations Officer               AFTTR Operations Officer

Abdoul-Wahab Seyni     Social Development Specialist.    AFTS3 Social Development
                                                               Specialist




                                                40

Abdoulaye Toure        Senior Rural Development                  Senior Rural
                       Specialist                          AFTS4 Development Specialist

Mamadou Yaro           Sr Financial Management                   Sr Financial Management
                       Specialist                         AFTFM  Specialist
Amadou Oumar BA        Sr Agricultural Specialist         AFTAR ICR Team Leader


(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                        Not available                  77.53
  FY99                                        Not available                 221.21
  FY00                                                 114                  361.57
  FY01                                                  35                  132.00
  FY02                                                                        0.00
  FY03                                                                        0.00
  FY04                                                                        0.00
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00
  FY07                                                                        0.00
                            Total:                     149                  792.33

Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                        0.00
  FY99                                                                        1.06
  FY00                                                                        4.62
  FY01                                                  16                   64.88
  FY02                                                  30                   92.67
  FY03                                                  52                  124.54
  FY04                                                  33                   65.63
  FY05                                                  36                   65.84
  FY06                                                  31                   55.99
  FY07                                                  20                   40.57
  FY08                                                   8                   15.58
                            Total:                     226                  531.41




                                               41

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiaries' perception study of the CBRD impacts was conducted in 2005. The objective
of this study was to collect views from different stakeholder groups on the impacts of
activities realized under the project support. The approach was more theoretical and
conceptual based on qualitative assessment made by the different beneficiaries of the diverse
project interventions.

Even if the impacts of the CBRD activities are difficult to differentiate from the global
impacts of other programs, it is obvious that the concerned populations are able to appreciate
very well the direct effects of such activities and can link them to the project interventions.
On this basis, the study was executed through a survey conducted in 40 villages within 8
provinces which benefited from the project direct support. The survey was administered to
households, specific groups organized in focus groups, and opinion leaders.

The main conclusions of this survey are summarized as follows:

· The project is very well known by the populations who are aware of its mission and
  strategies. The general perception of the project's mission is articulated around the idea of
  improving the communities' wellbeing in rural areas, which raises many expectations
  among the beneficiaries.

· Beneficiaries appreciate considerably the project participatory approach and strategies
  based on regular consultations with the populations and capacity building programs to
  identify their needs and look for appropriate solutions.

· Organization and capacity development are key factors to foster local development.
  Communities are aware that the transfer of money from the project is indeed important to
  realize needed investments; however the social capital building represents another major
  sustainable impact at village level due to project interventions.

1) Beneficiaries' perception of changes occurred in their life due to project interventions.

The perceptions of the populations are similar independently from location:

· The process of land degradation has been slowed down due to investments made on stone
  bunds, reforestation and `aménagements de berges'. Sensitization actions led to awareness
  building regarding natural resources protection.

· Conflicts between farmers and herders have been considerably reduced thanks to targeted
  activities in favor of livestock such as construction of cattle trails, fodder cultures that
  reduced the overgrazing practices.

· The systematic use of organic manure by farmers due to wide dissemination of `fosses
  fumières' and the installation of stone bunds allowed a considerable increase of the
  agricultural productivity and reduced at the same time the production costs by cutting down
  the expensive use of chemical fertilizers.




                                               42

2) Beneficiaries' perception on local governance.

· The CVGTs are perceived as federative structures in the villages bringing all existing
  associations together to exchange around development opportunities of the village. The
  CVGTs are real opportunities to organize people and help them manage their resources
  differently.

· Even if the concept of CVGTs is not yet widely present, it is already successfully
  introduced in significant number of villages, and could be therefore disseminated
  throughout the country.

Despite of theses positive views, the study revealed some shortcomings related to followings:

   (i)   women remain to be marginalized due to socio-cultural dimensions at village level;

   (ii)  in certain villages, the CVGTs are perceived as project owned structures;

   (iii) the non financing of individual revenues generating activities where women are
         more present.




                                              43

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

From September 21 to October 6, 2006, a series of stakeholder workshops were organized in
6 different provinces. Each provincial workshop was held in a two-day session regrouping
representatives of the beneficiaries in the concerned provinces covered by the project.
Objective of theses workshops was to collect the perceptions of the partners and beneficiaries
on the project activities and its implementation. These perceptions will be used for
suggestions and to draw lessons from this experience for future actions.

More specifically, the regional stakeholder workshops allowed to:

       · describe the successes and strengths for each component;
       · identify implementation weaknesses and difficulties for each component; and
       · draw useful lessons while suggesting improvements for future programs.

The main perceptions of the representatives of the CVGTs and the CCTPs relate mainly to (i)
the creation of the social capital at local level including the local development planning
processes involving all stakeholders, (ii) the importance of capacity building of the various
actors, (iii) the local development financing through the transfer of funds and its proper
management by the communities, and (iv) the consultation and coordination with the various
partners through the CCTPs as a fundament to ensure coherence of the development actions.

The overall workshop results can be summarized as follows:

       CVGTs representatives acknowledge the relevance of the strategy and the
       implementation approach of the project. This approach was appropriate to their needs
       and contributed to reinforce their ownership on development activities.

       CVGTs found that the PGT is a good instrument that enhances organization and
       planning activities for the community's development.

       CVGTs representatives appreciated the capacity building activities devoted to the
       communities in all local development issues, and recommended their continuation.

       CCTPs representatives acknowledged the crucial role played by the project in
       supporting the consultation process at provincial level among the diverse stakeholders.
       They all recognized the importance of the consultation for the benefit of the
       coordination and harmonization of activities of different partners at provincial level.
       This consultation process deserves to be reinforced.




                                              44

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 IMINISTERE DE LAGRICULTURE                                                         BURKINA FASO
   DE L'HYDRAULIQUE ET DES                                                       Unite-Progrès-Justice
  RESSOURCES HALIEUTIQUES


SECRETARIAT GENERAL
                                                                               Ouagadougou, le 2U FEB :331

   No ... 0251../MAHRH/SG/CN-PNGT2

                                              Le Secrétaire Général


                                                                         A


                                                          Madame Ia
                                                          Représentante
                                                          Résidente de la Banque
                                                          Mondiale
                                                                 Ouagadougou

    0bjet : Observations sur le.

            rapport de fin
            d'exécution du
            Deuxième
            Programme de
            Gestion des Terroirs
            (PNGT2)


   Madame la representante.

  J'accuse réception du rapport de fin d'exécution du Deuxième Programme
  de Gestion des Terroirs (PNGT 2). qui du reste. Présente la mise en oeuvre
  des différentes composantes, le niveau atteint par les indicateurs ainsi que
  les difficultés rencontrées tout au long de l'exécution de ce projet.

  Je voudrais par la présence souligner la bonne qualité de ce rapport qui
  rend compte fidèlement des activités menées entre 2002 et juin 2007 dans
  la zone d'intervention du PNGT 2. Nous relevons simplement que :



·   Un appui de la coopération danoise a pris fin en 2005 et non en 2004.


·   La contrepartie de l'Etat de 7.47 millions de dollars représente la contrepartie
    décaissable. La contrepartie non décaissable constituée des taxes              est de 6.13
    millions de dollars, soit. une contrepartie totale de l'Etat de 13,6 millions de dollars.



                                            45

           Cependant. nous souhaitons partager avec vous quelques leçons apprises
           au cours de la conduite de cc projet. Il s'agit entre autres de :


       ·       la non adaptation du système de DRF aux projets de développement communautaire
               comme le PNGT 2.


       ·       La nécessité pour l'ensemble des bailleurs de se concerter afin de trouver un format
               unique de rapportage avant le démarrage du projet pour faciliter le travail de la cellule
               du projet. Au de l'exécution du PNGT 2 l'équipe du projet en a souffert dans la mesure
               où elle devrait produire trois types de rapports et à des périodes différentes destinés
               aux bailleurs. Il en est de même pour les audits qui ne sont coordonnes et au chaque
               bailleur envoie ses auditeurs.


       ·       La nécessité d'harmoniser les missions de supervisions des différents bailleurs de
               Fonds pour une meilleure prise en compte de l'ensemble des suggestions et
               recommandations émises pour la bonne exécution du projet.


      O u t r e c e s quelques points nous vous faisons tenir à toute fin utile le
      rapport sur la perception des bénéficiaires avant la clôture du projet.


      Vous      en    souhaitant        bonne     réception, veuillez    agréer,       Madame        la
      Représentante Résidente, l'-expression de mes salutations distinguées.



 P.J.:
 - rapport sur la capitalisation sur la perception
  Des bénéficiaires sur l'exécution du
 PNGT2


 Ampliations ;

-PNGT2




                                                                    Barou Oumar OUEDRAOGO
                                                                         Ch   li d l'O d  N i    l




                                                       46

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The team sent the draft ICR to the different partners involved in the project implementation:
IFAD, UNDP and Danish cooperation.

The team received feedback from:

· IFAD, in form of suggestions and comments directly inserted in the original text, and
  including:

   (iv) the mentioning of some fraud reports at community level, even if these cases are
         isolated;

   (v)   the need to substantiate the claim on Gender mainstreaming;

   (vi) the fact that capacity development should not only include contractors working on
         the "software" side but also contractors working on the "hardware" side;

   (vii) the usefulness to point out the merit of the M&E system on information and
          communication among stakeholders; and

   (viii) the importance to draw lessons from the efforts made on the Harmonization agenda.


· UNDP in form of comments directly inserted in the original text and also general
  comments (see Appendix 1 below). Globally, UNDP comments were related to:

   (i)   supporting the general assessment of the report which they found very objective and
         well documented;

   (ii)   the low visibility in the report of the other partners' role (UNDP and DANIDA);
          therefore, the need to highlight more the impact of the UNDP contribution to the
          project success which they found underestimated in the report; and

   (iii) a suggestion to consider the government as a main beneficiary as well, with
          supporting arguments.

· Danish Cooperation (DANIDA) in form of comments (see Appendix 2 below) related to
  lessons that can be drawn from this experience, notably:

   (i)    Weak analyze regarding the weaknesses and successes of the Concerted
          Intervention Initiative with other development partners (AFD, Netherlands and
          DANIDA);

   (ii)   Lack of critique and objectivity of the report concerning the elaboration of the
          village development plans by private consultants due to standardized method;

   (iii) Insist on the risk of corruption in rural areas with regards to the massive transfer of
          funds to realize investments;




                                                47

   (iv) The need to substantiate the claim on capacity development, since other partners did
          also work on this issue.

For all three partners, the team took into account the comments in finalizing the report.




                                               48

Appendix 1 (Annex 8): UNDP Comments (in French)

1- D'une manière générale l'évaluation du PNGT2 a été bien faite et est très objective et
positive. Elle rend justice aux efforts déployés par le Gouvernement et à la coordination
nationale du projet pour atteindre les excellents résultats.

2- Le rapport est très bien documenté et très bien rédigé mais malheureusement en anglais, ce
qui a limité son exploitation et peut être conduit à une interprétation erronée de certains
passages du rapport. Nous partageons l'appréciation positive des résultats obtenus par le
PNGT2 auxquels ont contribué les autres partenaires du PNGT2 ainsi que l'appréciation
positive de la gestion du programme.

3- .Le principal reproche que l'on peut faire au rapport, c'est de n'avoir pas
suffisamment assuré la visibilité des autres partenaires (PNUD ET DANIDA) dans le
rapport. Le rapport a quasiment occulté les Contributions du PNUD et de DANIDA à
l'atteinte des résultats au PNGT2. Au niveau des résultats, on ne les cite nommément qu'au
niveau des effets induits en page 13 au paragraphe c .Pourtant l'apport du PNUD à travers le
PACGL a contribué à l'atteinte des produits phares du PNGT2 tels que la dynamisation
des 45 CCTP (dont 25 l'ont été de 2004 à 2006 par le PACGL) et la formation de leurs
membres, la concertation /coordination devenue indispensable en milieu rural, la loi sur la
décentralisation (CGCT), la mise en place et l'opérationnalisation du SP/de la CNCPDRD, le
guide méthodologique de planification locale dont l' élaboration n'était pas prévue parmi les
activités du PNGT2, mais parmi celles du PACGL, le partenariat public/privé développé lors
de l'élaboration des 12 PCD de la phase test du guide, etc.

4- Nous suggérons de considérer le Gouvernement comme un bénéficiaire principal du
PNGT2 ET DU PACGL car :

    -   l'appui financier et technique du PNGT2 PHASE 1 et du PACGL ont permis au
        gouvernement de d'élaborer le CGT, de mettre en place et rendre opérationnel le
        SP/du CNCPDRD, de dynamiser les CCTP et de rendre indispensable la concertation
        /coordination en milieu rural.
    -   Le PNGT2 a servi de rampe de lancement au processus de décentralisation
    -   Etc.

5- L'élaboration du guide de planification locale n'était pas prévue parmi les activités du
PNGT2. Mais grâce à l'élaboration du guide de PCD et à son test au niveau de 12
préfectures, futures communes rurales, le PNGT2 a pu intervenir au niveau communal. Cela
pourrait être cité comme effet induit.




                                               49

Appendix 2 (Annex 8): DANIDA Comments (in French)

Commentaires sur la version provisoire du rapport d'achèvement de la première phase
du PNGT 2

Le document est bien rédigé et comporte l'essentiel d'un rapport d'achèvement. Il me semble
toutefois qu'il manque d'analyse et de détails souvent utiles pour tirer des leçons pour des
interventions futures. On peut souligner:

   -   l'intervention concertée avec d'autres PTF notamment l'AFD, les Pays Bas et le
       Danemark. Le rapport n'a pas suffisamment analysé les faiblesses et les acquis de
       l'intervention concertée. A ce sujet la volonté y était tant du coté de la Banque
       Mondiale que du côté des autres PTF. Cependant les procédures de la Banque sont
       telles qu'une vrai harmonisation était difficile voire impossible. Une des raisons est
       que la Banque avait pu « négocier » avec le Ministère des finances des procédures
       spécifiques pour la mise en oeuvre du PNGT 2. A cette négociation les autres PTF
       acteurs de développement n'étaient vraisemblablement pas associés
   -   le rapport a manqué de critique et n'a pas été assez objectif sur l'élaboration des plans
       villageois de développement par des bureaux privés. Pour bon nombre de ces plans, la
       méthode a été standardisée si bien qu'ils manquaient d'originalité et de spécificités. Il
       faut reconnaître que les bureaux d'études ont manqué du sérieux dans le travail qui
       leur avait été confié
   -   contrairement à ce qu'affirme le rapport, je ne suis pas convaincu que les CVGT aient
       acquis les capacités de suivi et contrôle des infrastructures réalisées dans les villages
       (page 9, § 2 du 3.1)
   -   il semble que l'approche, méthodes et outils développés par le PNGT sont plus
       adaptés au milieu rural sédentaire que les régions pastorales ou les réalités foncières
       de l'occupation des terres et de l'utilisation des ressources sont assez spécifiques et
       requiert une originalité d'intervention
   -    le § 2 de la page 11 est critiquable. Il est difficile d'affirmer qu'une vraie
       harmonisation des interventions des PTF est établie en milieu rural
   -   le rapport souffre d'une analyse objective du CNCPDR dans sa structuration actuelle
       en tant que forum efficient et instance pérenne. Il me semble qu'il manque une
       volonté politique réelle, mais surtout une capacité humaine et institutionnelle de la
       part de l'Etat pour porter une telle initiative et l'animer
   -   au nombre des risques (pages 14 à 16), il est pertinent de citer le risque de corruption
       du milieu rural par tant d'argent injecté pour financer les micro-projets. La situation a
       été vécue ailleurs (Ouganda), il n'y a pas de raisons que le Burkina y échappe si des
       réflexions ne sont pas menées et des mesures prises
   -   en page 19 au § 3, il me semble que le rapport est tendancieux pour parler d'unique
       opportunité de capacité de développement. D'autres PTF ont développé des initiatives
       de développement de capacités au niveau local qui sont efficaces et pérennes, telles le
       comité d'octroi de fonds, véritables instances démocratiques dont le travail témoigne
       de la bonne gouvernance.


                                                             Ignace Ouédraogo, chargé de programme




                                                50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1.  Project Concept Note, [September, 1998]

   2.  Environmental Data sheet for Projects in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program; janvier
       2000.

   3.  CBRD 1: Project Appraisal Document; August 2000.

   4.  Aide Mémoire Mission Développement Rural (29 Octobre au 10 Novembre 2001)

   5.  Aide Mémoire Mission Revue du portefeuille des opérations dans le secteur du
       développement rural (26 Février au 14 mars 2001)

   6.  Aide Mémoire de la première mission d'appui à l'exécution du PNGT2 (4 au 13 juin
       2002)

   7.  Aide Mémoire Mission de supervision du PNGT2 (25 Novembre au 13 Décembre
       2002)

   8.  Aide Mémoire Mission de supervision du PNGT2 (31 Mars au 12 Avril 2003)

   9.  Aide-mémoire de Mission de supervision du deuxième Programme National de
       Gestion des Terroirs (17 mai au 05 juin 2004).

   10. Aide-mémoire de Revue à mi-parcours du PNGT2 (du 22 novembre au 10 décembre
       2004).

   11. Aide-mémoire de la mission de supervision du PNGT2 et du SILEM (21 novembre au
       04 décembre 2005.

   12. Mission de supervision du PNGT2 et du SILEM (05 au 23 mai 2006) : Note technique
       sur la fonctionnalité du dispositif de suivi-évaluation du PNGT2, 2002-2006 ; juin
       2006.

   13. Aide-mémoire Mission de supervision finale du PNGT2 et de revue à mi-parcours du
       projet SILEM (13 au 29 Mai 2007)

   14. Revue à mi-parcours du PNGT2 : Note sur les mesures `atténuation des impacts
       environnemental et social (06- au 13 décembre 2004)

   15. Revue à mi-parcours du PNGT2 : Notes techniques ; novembre 2004.

   16. Perception de l'impact des activités du PNGT2 par les populations ; mars 2005.

   17. Loi N° 055-2004/ AN portant Code général des Collectivités Territoriale au Burkina
       Faso

   18. Evaluation des conventions de cofinancements, Année 2003 ; mai 2005.

   19. Guide méthodologique de planification locale : Comment élaborer un Plan Communal
       de Développement ; mars 2005.

   20. Guide méthodologique de planification locale : Comment élaborer un Plan régional de
       Développement ; mars 2006.

   21. Etat d'exécution du PNGT2 de 2002 au 31/03/2006 ; Mai 2006, Février 2007.

   22. Suivi des effets intermédiaires du PNGT2 : Rapport N°1/ 2002-2004 ; septembre 2006.

   23. Note synthétique sur l'état de mise en oeuvre du cadre de gestion environnemental et
       social du PNGT2 ; septembre 2006.



                                          51

24. Ateliers régionaux sur la perception des acteurs et des bénéficiaires des interventions
    du PNGT2 : Rapport de synthèse. Document de synthèse des concertations avec les
    représentants des CVGT et des CCTP ; octobre 2006.

25. PNGT2 : Perception de l'impact des activités du PNGT2 par les populations ; mars
    2005

26. PNGT2 : Rapport de suivi des effets intermédiaires du PNGT/Rapport No1 2002-2004

27. PNGT2 : Deuxième Rapport de suivi des effets intermédiaires du PNGT, Juin 2007

28. PNGT : Rapport concernant l'enquête sur les conditions de vie, les revenus et la
    pauvreté des ménages ruraux au Burkina Faso en 2004 ­ Résultats de l'enquête de base
    du PNGT2 ­ Version finale, Mars 2006

29. Salifou   Konaté :    Analyse  économique     et    financière  des    investissements
    communautaires du PNGT 2, Rapport final, Avril 2007

30. CBRD : Development Credit Agreement between Burkina Faso and IDA, June 2001

31. CBRD 2: Project Appraisal Document; February 2007

32. DANIDA : Appui au suivi-évaluation du PNGT2 ­ Rapport de Clôture (version
    préliminaire), Avril 2005

33. QAG Results, November 2006

34. Quality At Entry Assessment (July 2001)

35. OPCS : Guidelines for Implementation Completion and Results Report, August 2006




                                      52

                                                                 4°                                                       2°                                                             0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M A U R I TA N I A
                                           BURKINA FASO                                        0             50            100          150           200                             M A L I
                         COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL                                                                                                                                                                                                   Area of map

                                                                                                               KILOMETERS / KILOMETRES                                                                                                   M A L I

                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PNGT2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NIGER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BURKINA FASO
                                INTERVENTION AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ouagadougou

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                 OUDALAN                                                                                            BENIN
                             PNGT2 DIRECT INTERVENTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                              Gorom-Gorom                                                                                       TOGO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C Ô T E       GHANA
                             PNGT2 INDIRECT INTERVENTION                                                                                                                                                                           D ' I V O I R E

                                                                                                                                       S O U M                                                                       LIBERIA

                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                       Djibo                                                DORI                                                                  G u l f o f
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Gotheye
            14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G u i n e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                              14°
                             PROVINCIAL CAPITALS (before 1997)                   To Mopti                        LOROUM
                                                                                                     YATENGA                                                                            S E N O                      ATLANTIC OCEAN


                             RIVERS                                                                                             BAM                                                                                                              2°
                                                                                                            OUAHIGOUYA

                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES (after 1997)                                                                                                                                                                                            Niger
                                                                                                                                          SANMATENGA
                                                                                                                               Kongoussi                                                            YAGHA
                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               SOUROU                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                               KAYA                       G                                                                         N I G E R
                             PAVED ROADS        To San                                                  ZONDOMA                                                        TEN                                                     Goroubi
                                                                   KOSSI               Tougan
                                                                                                                   Yako                                              EN                Bogandé

                             UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                           GNAGNA
                                                                    Nouna                                                        OUBRITENGA                        AM
                                                                                                                                                                  N                                                                 To Niamey
                             ALL WEATHER USE                                                                 PASSORE
                                                                                    NAYALA                                  KOMRE-                                 Boulsa
                                                                                                                            WEOGO                                                                  KOMONDJARI
                             UNPAVED ROADS                                                                                         Ziniaré
                             INTERMITTENT USE
                                                                              DÉDOUGOU                         BOULKIEMDE
                                                                                                     Réo                          KADIOGO
                                                                   Noire                       KOUDOUGOU                                        Volta   Zorgho              KOURITEN
                                                                                                                                 OUAGADOUGOU                                                                                          T A P O A
                   M A L I         To Koutiala      BANWA                   MOUHOUN
                                                                                                                                                             KOUPELA                GA               FADA
                                                                                                                                                     GANZOURGOU                                  N'GOURMA
            12°                                               Volta                                                            Kombissiri
                                                                                               SANGUIE                                                 Blanche                                                                                  Diapaga
                                                                                                                                                                                             G O U R M A                                                               12°
                                                                                                                                   BAZEGA
                                                                               LES BALE                                            Volta      Manga

                                                                                                                        Z I R O
                              KENEDOUGOU                               T U Y
                                                    H O U E T                                                                                ZOUNDWE                         Tenkodogo

                                                                                                                                                                BOULGOU                KOULPELOGO

                                                                                               Volta                                             RougeOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          KOMPIENGA

            To Sikasso             BOBO-DIOULASSO                                                       S I S S I L I              NAHOURI
                                                                                   I O B A                             Léo                     Pô

                                                                              DIÉBOUGOU
                             Orodara                                                                                                                                           To Bawku

                                                                                                                                         To Navrongo                                                              To Natitingou

                                                                        BOUGOURIBA                                 To Tumu
                                                                                          Noire
                       LERABA
                                        BANFORA                                                                                                                                                                                          B E N I N

                                                                            P O N I  Gaoua
                                               C O M O E



                   To Abidjan                oe
            10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10°
                                           Kom                                     NOUMBIEL                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors,denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and any other information shown on
AUGUST                                                                                                                                                                                                                              this map do not imply, on the part of         IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                               G    H      A     N        A                                                                         on the legalstatus of any territory,or
                              C Ô T E         D ' I V O I R E                                                                                                                                                                       any endorsement or acceptance of                  30893
      2000                                                                                                                                                                                                  T O G O                 such boundaries.

                                                             4°                                                         2°                                                               0°                                                         2°

