Report No. 688a-IN
India
Appraisal of Rural Electrification Project
June 23, 1975                                                                         FILE  COPY
South Asia Projects Department
Power Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the Internatonal Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =    Rs 8.0
Rs 1           =    US$0.125
Rs 1,000       =    US$125
Rs 1,000,000         US$125,000
Rs 1                 Paise 100
ABBREVIATIONS
RE        =  Rural Electrification
REC       =  Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB       =  State Electricity Board
CEA       =  Central Electricity Authority
CWPC      =  Central Water and Power Commission
GOI       '  Government of India
MNP       -  Minimum Needs Program
NCAER     -  National Council for Applied Economic Research
kwh       =  kilowatt hour
kw        =  kilowatt
kv        =  kilovolt
v         =  volt
KVA       =  kilovolt-ampere
MVA       =  megavolt-ampere
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................ ...... . i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....****.. **..................... *..      .    1
II.   BACKGROUND ........................................... .    1
Historical Background on RE Development in India .    1
RE Programs Envisaged in the Draft Fifth Plan             3
The Power Sector                  ....                    3
III.   THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES  ........5
Rural Electrification Corporation ...............         6
Functions  6......       .........       .6
Organization of the REC                                   7
Impact of Rural Electrification on SEBs  .........    7
Relending of Credit by GOI to the REC                     8
Financing of REC Loans               ...                  9
REC's Lending Terms and Financial
Criteria for Loans  ...*** ...*......*.........   10
Ex-post Evaluation of REC-financed Schemes    .......  10
Audit .....*...... o.o, *999....**9.*9.9.9** 999*999   11
IV.   THE PROJECT .....        *..................*..............   11
Definition .........................    11
Estimated Costs of the Project        ...................    11
Preparation and Construction of REC-financed
RE Schemes .                                           12
Procurement ..........................    12
Disbursements                                            13..............................    13
V.   PROJECT ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ........        ................   14
Pricing Policy ... .................................   15
This report is based on information obtained by Messrs. J. Beach, B. Montfort
and S.S. Scales during missions to India in December 1972, April 1973, Novem-
ber/December 1973, and February 1975.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS .....................................   16
Financial Position .............. *................   16
Financing Plan ..................................   17
Future Finance ..........................             18
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ................   19
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex     Appendix
1                 Rural Electrification Project
Establishment of the REC      ...............  1
Objectives and Operational Policy ......      1
Organization and Management ... .........     2
Personnel Hiring and Training    ..........   3
REC Lending Terms and Financial Criteria for
Sanctioning Loans       ....................  4
REC's Economic Evaluation of Projects ...    6
Project Approach and Coordination with Other
Concerned Agencies       ...................  7
Technical Coordination - Standardization      8
Rural Electric Cooperatives     ............  9
Operations of REC ......................    10
1          1A    REC, Board of Directors
1          1B     REC, Organization Chart
1          iC    REC, Organization Chart (Project Appraisal, Coordination
& Evaluation)
1          1D     Organization Chart (Finance and Accounts Division)
1          1E     Directives from GOI to REC
1          1F    REC Loans - Rates of Interest, Terms of Repayment,
Minimum Returns Required on Loans Sanctioned to
March 31, 1974
1          1G    REC Loans - Rates of Interest, Terms of Repayment,
Minimum Returns Required on Loans Sanctioned from
April 1, 1974
1          1H    Physical Targets Envisaged under REC-financed
Schemes in FY 1974



-3-
Annex     Appendix
1          1I     Connected Load of RE Schemes in FY 1974
1          1J     Cumulative Physical Targets under REC-financed
Schemes up to FY 1974
1          1K     RE and Harijan Basti Loans in FY 1974
2          _      Rural Electrification Development Envisaged in the Draft
Fifth Plan
3          -      Estimated Association Disbursements
4          -      Economic Justification
Sunmmary ...... *....... ...                    1
Least Cost Comparison between Electricity and
Diesel Pumping for Minor Irrigation ...      2
Basic Case      ..............................  3
Sensitivity to Shadow Pricing of Foreign
Exchange .....     ...........               4
Justification of the Minor Irrigation
Component in a Typical REC-financed Project 5
Economics of Well Electrification Component
Alone                                        6
Justification of the Village Electrification
Component in a Typical REC-financed Project 8
Return on Investment for the Typical REC-
financed Project              ..........     9
Rates of Return Computed by REC Staff on
Specific Sub-Projects        ......... .    11
Returns on Minor Irrigation Investments in
IDA Agricultural Credits      ..............   11
NCAER's Study on the Impact of Rural Elec-
trification in Punjab       .................    12
4          4A     Cost of a 5 HP Diesel Pump Set
4          4B     Cost of a 5 HP Electric Pump Set
4          4C     Electricity/Diesel Least Cost Comparison for 5 HP
Well/Basic Case
4          4D     Electricity/Diesel Least Cost Comparison for 5HP
Well/50% Premium on Foreign Exchange
5                 Average Rates for Agricultural, Industrial, Commercial
and Domestic Consumption
6                 REC Balance Sheets for Fiscal Years 1970-1974 (Actual)
and Fiscal Years 1975 through 1979 (Forecast)



-4-
Annex          Appendix
7           REC, Statement Showing Loan Sanctions, Disbursements,
and Balances Undisbursed
8           REC, Sources and Application of Funds for FY 1970-1974
(Actual) and FY 1975-1979 (Forecast)
9           REC, Income Statements for FY 1970-1974 Actual and
FY 1975-1979 (Forecast)
10           Statement Showing Calculation of Debt Service Coverage



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Rural Electrification Project for which
the Government of India (GOI) has requested financial assistance. The
Project, which would help implement the GOIts policy of accelerating rural
electrification with emphasis on the energization of minor irrigation wells,
would be undertaken by the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), a govern-
ment Corporation under the general supervision of the Ministry of Energy.
ii.       A Credit of US$57 million equivalent is proposed, to be onlent by
GOI to the REC on terms acceptable to the Association. It would finance
loans to State Electricity Boards (SEBs) whose earnings enable them to meet
their rate-of-return obligations under Loan 416-IN and any other SEB whose
State Government has agreed to subsidize rural electrification operations
in a manner satisfactory to the Association. The loans would be restricted
to projects which meet specific viability criteria.
iii.      The REC was established in 1969 to channel public funds to State
Electricity Boards for rural electrification development. Capital amounting
to Rs 1,500 million was made available to meet the REC's anticipated require-
ments during the IVth Plan period (FY 1970 - FY 1974). Its annual revenues
come from the interest on its loans and the investment of surplus cash. In
FY 1974, administration cost was equivalent to 9% of revenue while the in-
terest cost was 17% of revenue. At March 31, 1974, REC's debt was only Rs
353 million out of a total capital of about Rs 1,761 million and loan interest
at 6% per annum represented an expense of less than 1% of capital. By March
31, 1974, REC had appraised and approved schemes amounting to about Rs 3,040
million. Against this it had disbursed about Rs 1,643 million leaving undis-
charged commitments of Rs 1,397 million. The REC does not reserve funds
to meet the full commitments when approving a loan and relies mostly on the
GOI to provide adequate funds annually to meet the subsequent years' commitments
on existing loans.
iv.       SEBs whose projects meet the REC's lending criteria are the benefi-
ciaries of loans for RE development. Up to March 31, 1974, these criteria
generally required a proposed project to earn a small revenue surplus by
the fifth year. From April 1974 GOI raised the interest on its loans and
reduced its equity participation, and REC had to raise its lending rates as
well and to relax its lending criteria. The present lending criteria call
for revenue and expenses breaking even by the seventh to the fifteenth
year of operations dependent upon the type of scheme, and recognize an
extended initial period when losses from RE operations are expected to be
borne by SEBs. In conventional terms these break-even points are equivalent
to internal financial H'ates of return ranging from about 10% to 5%.



- ii -
v.        The REC is a strong organization supported by competent professional
and technical staff. It has taken the lead in the rural electrification sub-
sector by establishing sound policies and procedures for project appraisal,
evaluation and approval; it monitors the implementation of sanctioned schemes
and co-ordinates the standardization of equipment and construction practices.
vi.       The project would consist of a tranche of about 140 REC-approved
rural electrification schemes to be carried out by designated SEBs and would
involve about 40,000 km of primary and secondary distribution lines, trans-
formers with an aggregate capacity of 500 MVA, poles and miscellaneous equip-
ment. The total project cost is estimated at US$114 million equivalent, of
which US$57 million equivalent would represent the cost of line conductors,
transformers, circuit breakers, capacitors, insulators and meters, together
with 50% of the cost of locally procured poles.
vii.      Each designated SEB would be responsible for its own procurement of
items to be financed by the credit. With the exception of poles, these items
would be procured after international competitive bidding.  Indian manu-
facturers would be awarded the Association's usual preference in the com-
parison of bids. Based on experience gained from Credits 242-IN and 377-IN
(Power Transmission Projects II and III), it is likely that at least 80% of
the conductor contracts would be placed with Indian manufacturers. Although
less is known about the competitiveness of Indian manufacturers of other
equipment for which international bids will be sought, it is estimated that
they might win 70% of orders.
viii.     GOI's policy of rapidly expanding rural electrification throughout
the country is a key element in co-ordinated rural development programs de-
signed to achieve large economic benefits and to improve the living conditions,
of the rural people. The main economic benefits to the community at large
result from increased agricultural production. A further benefit would be
the speedier introduction of small scale industry, particularly agro-industry,
which augments the value added in rural areas, supplements the farmer's
income and creates new employment opportunities. The extension of
electricity service to village consumers provides benefits which are difficult
to quantify, such as (a) resource savings over substitutes (e.g. kerosene);
(b) value of quality benefits over alternatives (e.g. lighting, ironing);
(c) value of extra output (e.g. more lighting, fans); and (d) savings in
urban costs foregone due to a curb in the rural-urban migration. Finally,
there are income distribution benefits resulting from the policy of paying
particular attention and granting relaxed financial terms to help start
the development process in the poorest and most backward areas.
ix.       The project would benefit about 55,000 farmers - mostly small -
and their dependents and about 210,000 domestic/commercial consumers who
would receive connections in 6,250 villages where 35,000 street lights would
also be installed. More than one half of the connected load would be for
irrigation pumping, the remaining half being divided equally between small
industries and domestic and commercial connections, while street lighting



- iii -
would represent less than 1% of the total load. Based on the value of in-
cremental output from agriculture and small industry and the expected revenues
from domestic/commercial consumers, and after making appropriate adjustments
in respect of taxes, the return on investment on a typical REC-financed
project is estimated at 23%. This is a conservative calculation which does
not take full account of the socio-economic benefits of village electrification.
x.        The Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Credit of US$57
million equivalent.






INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested assistance from the
Association to help implement its policy of accelerating rural electrifica-
tion (RE) with emphasis on the energization of minor irrigation wells. A
credit of US$57 million is proposed, to be made to GOI for onlending to the
Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), a central government financing
institution and by far the largest investor in the Indian RE sector. The
credit would finance the conductors, transformers, circuit breakers, capaci-
tors, insulators, and meters, together with 50% of the cost of locally
procured poles in RE loans made by the REC to the State Electricity Boards
(SEBs).
1.02      This would be the first credit to the REC.  Its nature makes it an
adjunct to both the Bank Group's agricultural and power operations. On the
power side, the Bank has made eight loans to India, amounting to US$198.0
million, and IDA six credits totalling US$239.0 million. The last three
Bank Group power operations, namely Loan 416-IN made in 1965, Credit 242-IN
made in 1971 and Credit 377-IN made in 1973, aimed at expanding the high-
voltage transmission facilities and improving the financial viability/man-
agement of the SEBs. Bank Group lending for India's agricultural sector
- US$824 million to date - supports GOI's strategy of giving increased
emphasis to farm investments.
1.03      This report is based on information obtained by Messrs. J. Beach,
B. Montfort and S.S. Scales during missions to India in December 1972, April
1973, November/December 1973, and February 1975. 1/
II. BACKGROUND
Historical Background on RE Development in India
2.01      India initiated its rural electrification program in the early
fifties with emphasis on village electrification. However, in 1967, follow-
ing a series of severe droughts, GOI shifted the emphasis of its RE policies
toward well electrification for irrigation pumping in order to accelerate
agricultural production. By April 1, 1969, the starting date of the Fourth
1/  Appraisal of the proposed project was completed in April 1973.  Process-
ing was delayed because of the severe power shortages then prevailing
in India and because organizational measures required by the Associa-
tion-reactivation of the CEA--took longer than expected.



- 2 -
Five-year Plan, the cumulative RE investment, of Rs 4.2 billion, had involved
the electrification of about 1.1 million minor irrigation wells and about
74,300 villages (about 13% of the total). During the Fourth Plan period
(1969/70-1973/74), RE investment amounted to Rs 4.45 billion and it is esti-
mated that, by March 31, 1974, nearly 2.5 million minor irrigation wells were
electrified and about 148,000 villages were receiving electricity service.
But the level of achievement between the States varied widely. The table
shows the history of RE investment and development through the Fourth Plan
and the targets envisaged in the Draft Fifth Five-Year Plan:
RE Investment and Development (All-India)
No. of        % of
Cumulative No. of Energized Electrified Electrified
Date                 Investment  Irrigation Pumps    Villages        Villages
(Rs million)
1951  Actual         N.A.           19,000            3,600           .6
3-31-66  Actual        2,400          513,000           45,800          8.0
3-31-69  Actual        4,210        1,100,000           74,300         13.1
3-31-74  Estimated    8,650         2,440,000          148,000         26.1
3-31-79  Targets      19,630        4,000,000          250,000         44.1
2.02      State Electricity Boards (SEBs) - the operating organizations
responsible for developing generation, transmission and distribution of
power within each state - were given the responsibility of implementing
the Government RE policy. This was initially financed mainly by capital
advanced by state governments. However, as the increased tempo of rural
electrification and the heavy responsibility devolving on the SEBs on this
account began to be felt, GOI decided to investigate the cooperative system
of electricity distribution for rural areas. Accordingly, based on a study
carried out by a team of experts from the National Rural Electric Coopera-
tive Association of USA, an experiment was launched in 1969 with the crea-
tion of five pilot rural electric cooperatives in five different states.
An investment of Rs 128.6 million phased over a five year period was in-
volved. Evaluation of these schemes has shown that so far success has not
been sufficient to warrant the launching of large cooperative programs 1/.
Next, to help implement its policy of accelerating RE development to reduce
regional disparities in availability of electricity service, GOI took the
important step, on July 25, 1969, of establishing the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC) as a public financial institution. REC, placed under the
l/ Based on the recommendations of a special Committee set up by the REC
to evaluate the performance of the first five pilot cooperatives, the
REC has recently resumed lending for a few more cooperatives, but on
a different set of norms in regard to pattern of funding, organizational
structure, etc. (Annex 1, para 34).



supervision of the Ministry of Irrigation and Power (now Ministry of Energy),
was designed to play a central role in the promotion and financing of RE
projects and cooperatives throughout the country; it has now emerged as by
far the largest single investor in RE. It lends to the SEBs on a project
basis, requiring projects to meet certain viability criteria and to be
prepared and implemented in coordination with related aspects of rural
development. During the Fourth Plan period REC sanctioned loans which add
up to over Rs 3 billion for 618 schemes and disbursed over Rs 1.6 billion
or 37% of total RE investment during that period. REC's organization,
management, objectives and accomplishments are described in detail in Annex 1.
RE Programs Envisaged in the Draft Fifth Plan
2.03      The Draft Fifth Plan allocates Rs 10.98 billion 1/ for RE during the
period (1974/75 - 1978/79), which GOI estimates will permit the energization
of an additional 1.5 million wells and the electrification of 110,000 villages
(Annex 2). This investment is planned in three components, namely:
(a)  Rs 4 billion (or 36.4% of the total) would be disbursed
to the SEBs by the REC for projects meeting viability
criteria set by the latter. This is considered adequate
by GOI for the energization of 760,000 pumpsets and the
electrification of about 41,000 villages;
(b)  Rs 2.72 billion would be spent under the Minimum Needs
Program (NNP) 2/ to make electricity available in the
backward regions in the States. This allocation is
considered adequate by GOI for spreading electricity in
the rural areas in States where electrification covers less
than 40% of the population. It is expected that about 36,500
villages would benefit in 15 States. A project approach
is also used here and the REC channels the funds in
accordance with viability criteria similar to the most
relaxed ones applicable to normal projects under the
above component (a); and
(c)  Rs 4.26 billion would be spent by the States (and Union
Territories) themselves.
The Power Sector
2.04      Several agencies at the uppermost central policy making level
influence resource allocations and development priorities affecting the
1/ This is about 17% of the power sector allocation, and about 2% of total
outlay envisaged under the Draft Plan.
2/ The MNP is designed to provide the infrastructure for development in
the backward regions in the States. The States prepare integrated
programs under the MNP which include energization of irrigation pumpsets,
the provision of drinking water facilities, the construction of reads,
the establishment of health centers, etc.



power sector. These include inter alia the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Commission which attempt to reconcile the needs of the power sector
with those of other sectors; the Ministry of Industrial Development which
greatly influences the capital investment programs of the power sector; the
Ministry of Energy which represents the sector itself (the REC is under its
supervision), and the Department of Atomic Energy which is an autonomous
agency. At the intermediate level of national planning and coordination,
provisions in the Electricity (Supply) Act envisaged a Central Electricity
Authority (CEA) with powers commensurate with responsibility for the develop-
ment of national power plans and coordination of the utilization of power
resources. However, for all practical purposes, the CEA was until recently
a non-functioning entity except for a minor role as arbitrator. It was the
Power Wing of the Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC) which discharged
the planning and coordination functions. Its effectiveness in this capacity
was constrained by an important limitation which did not bind the CEA, the
CWPC being simply a technical advisory subordinate agency of the Ministry
of Energy. It had no independent statutory status (as did the CEA), and no
legal powers to direct or control, or to carry out investigations. To
achieve its objectives it relied solely upon its powers of "persuasion". At
the operational and state level, the Electricity (Supply) Act gives State
Electricity Boards responsibility for developing the generation, transmission
and distribution of power within each state. But they too possess little
autonomy and for all practical purposes function largely as state government
departments. CWPC s influence on them has been minimal. In connection with
the most recent power sector credit (Credit 377-IN of May 1973) the GOI con-
firmed its understanding that further Bank Group financial assistance to the
sector would be contingent upon a meaningful reactivation of the CEA.  The GOI
recently started moving in this direction when it split the CWPC. The
irrigation function is now being carried out by the Central Water Commission
which reports to the Ministry of Agriculture and the power function is
undertaken by the Central Electricity Authority reporting to the Ministry
of Energy. Although the CEA has formally existed since 1950, much still
needs to be done to complete 'activation'. The new organization, as planned,
would have a chairman and six members, respectively for: Planning, Thermal,
Hydroelectric, Systems, Operations, and Economics & Commercial. Four of the
members have been transferred from the former CWPC and the Association was
informed that appointment of the chairman was imminent. Although the new
organization is not yet complete and is therefore not fully operational
and would de facto act only in an advisory capacity to the Ministry, it
is believed that the GOI's intentions regarding reactivation of the CEA
are sincere and sufficient progress has been made to permit processing
of the proposed Rural Electrification Credit.
2.05      Extensive power cuts have been a regular feature in most parts of
India during the recent past. This resulted from inadequate long-term
planning, insufficient transmission facilities, drastic slippages in
construction schedules for new plant, inordinate procurement delays,
unreliability of coal and lignite supplies, a high rate of enforced shut



down of thermal plant and the failure of the 1971 and 1972 monsoons.
Because of a more favorable mownsoon in 1973 and the improvement in thermal
plant availability, the situation has improved 1/, however many States still
experience power deficits to a more or less extent. In accordance with GOI
and States priority policiess agricultural loads have generally been met
satisfactorily with regard to energy requirements even though load rostering
had to be instituted, i.e., the farmers were restricted in most states to
the use of their pumpsets only during certain hours of the day. But the
output of the industrial sector has been affected negatively because of the
curtailments imposed.
2.06      The prospects of continuing serious power shortages together
with the inadequacy of sector planning have been of serious concern to
the GOI and the Association, and have delayed the processing of the proposed
credit. However, the power supply situation, which will remain tight during
the first half of the Fifth Plan period, should improve thereafter in most
parts of the country as (i) the preparation of the power portion of the Fifth
Plan has been made in a more careful and detailed manner than in the past
(ii) central monitoring units created about a year ago in the Planning Com-
mission and the CWPC (now CEA) have already demonstrated their effectiveness
in keeping a close watch on power projects and ensuring that bottlenecks are
identified well in time and corrective measures taken at an early stage,
and (iii) the current reactivation of the CEA should also have beneficial
consequences in this respect. In spite of these efforts to improve the
situation on the supply side, it is expected that deficits will still be part
of the Indian power scene for some years, at least in some areas, if the
demand itself is not periodically monitored and regulated whenever necessary
to maintain it within the limits of supply capability. For meeting existing
demand in the short term, GOI and the States are expected to continue their
priority policy of favoring agricultural loads at the expense of industry
and other users. This is acceptable to the Association. Regarding the
build-up of demand over the longer term, GOI confirmed during negotiations
that it takes into account the information collected by the central monitor-
ing units mentioned above to regulate the licensing of new industrial projects,
particularly the power intensive ones, through the Industrial Licensing
Committee and the Public Investment Board.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARIES
3.01      The GOI would be the borrower, which would relend the proceeds
of the credit to the REC, the beneficiary. REC would in turn on-lend to
the SEBs to finance specific RE schemes meeting its viability criteria.
I/   For example, the West Bengal power situation has improved markedly during
the latter half of 1974. Factories presently have their power supply
cut off only one day a week and they are allowed to work one additional
night shift. Power supply for agriculture is restricted only during
the power system peak hours, I.e. 6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.



-6-
Rural Electrification Corporation
3.02      The REC was established in July 1969 under the Indian Companies
Act as an autonomous company under the general supervision of the Ministry
of Irrigation and Power (now Ministry of Energy). The authorized share capital
at June 30, 1973, was Rs 500 million of which Rs 200 million was fully paid
and owned by GOI. The initial arrangement was that REC would be provided
with capital of Rs 1,500 million, Rs 1,050 million of which would be sub-
scribed by the US during FY 1970 through FY 1974 as a grant subject to a
matching contribution of Rs 450 million by GOI. In making this initial con-
tribution GOI provided 50% as equity share capital and 50% in loan at 6%
interest. All these funds and more have now been used by REC which needs
additional financing to carry on its business.
Functions
3.03      REC's chief objectives are:
(a) to finance rural electrification schemes throughout India;
(b) to subscribe to special rural electrification bonds issued
by SEBs;
(c)  to promote and finance Rural Electric Cooperatives; and
(d) to administer funds received from GOI and other sources
for financing rural electrification.
3.04      The REC's Articles of Association provide that the President of
India issue directives for the conduct of its business. To date the main
directives (Annex 1, Appendix 1-E) require REC to:
(a) establish policies and procedures for the consideration,
approval and implementation of rural electrification
schemes which are to be financed by the REC;
(b) develop and apply criteria for establishing priorities
as regards the choice of schemes, and for assessing their
economic viability; and
(c) adopt a 'project approach' so that development of rural
electrification along with other investments results in
increased agricultural production.



- 7 -
3.05      REC regards itself not merely as a lending institution but as an
integral part of rural development. This means that rural electrification
schemes being considered for financial assistance require appraisal to
confirm the availability of groundwater, the willingness of the farmer
to invest in an irrigation well and the installation of a pumpset, the avail-
ability of institutional credit facilities to the farmer, the adequacy of
fertilizers and seeds, and the potential for the type of crops to be grown.
Similarly, for the rural industries it is necessary to consider the potential
for growth of the particular type of industry, the availability of entrepre-
neurial abilities, credit facilities, and markets for finished products. As a
result, committees at State and District levels have been set up to ensure
that coordination is extended to all relevant sectors of the infrastructure
of the district, and to the related development inputs in the individual
schemes.
Organization of the REC
3.06      REC management is vested in a Board of Directors consisting of not
less than three, and not more than twelve, all of whom are appointed by the
President. The Board consists of a part-time Chairman, who has wide banking
and financial experience, a full time Managing Director, a full time Technical
Director, and nine part-time Directors, some of whom are government or
quasi-government officials. The Managing Director is the Chief Executive
in charge of all divisions, with the exception of the Technical Division
which is the special responsibility of the Technical Director.  The REC is
a strong organization supported by competent professional and technical staff.
It has taken a lead in the rural electrification subsector by establishing
sound policies and procedures for project appraisal, evaluation, and approval;
it monitors the implementation of sanctioned schenes and coordinates the
standardization of equipment and construction practices. As the schemes
come into service it also monitors the financial results.
Impact of Rural Electrification on SEBs
3.07      When GOI shifted the emphasis of its rural electrification policy
from domestic lighting to the electrification of irrigation pumping in 1967,
the SEBs were made responsible for implementation. Unfortunately their
ability to undertake the massive investment and at the same time maintain
financial viability from the inherently low yields from energy sales in
rural areas was not considered. When the implications on the SEBs finances
were reviewed in connection with Power Transmission Credits 242-IN and 377-IN
it became clear that the low yielding RE investments made impossible the
attainment of the rate-of-return targets which State Governments and SEBs
had agreed to achieve under Loan 416-IN.
3.08      Financial data which are now prepared annually by SEBs in
connection with Credit 242-IN separate rural electrification from total
operations and quantify the financial losses associated with rural
electrification operations. These are considerable in most states and are
primarily attributable to tariffs which do not recover the cost of rural



- 8 -
electrification in the early years, and to unwillingness to charge higher
agricultural pumping tariffs, which could be well afforded by most farmers.
Credit 377-IN established that annual losses incurred by SEBs from rural
electrification operations should be subsidized by their State Governments
instead of by the SEBs themselvess as it is the State Governments' reluctance
to permit tariff increases which causes the problem. Six State Governments
and their SEBs were directly involved in the credit. 1/ GOI has given little
encouragement to other State Governments to subsidize rural electrification
operations, or to raise agricultural tariffs to help SEBs achieve their agreed
rates of return. Cross subsidization could be considered as a method to
meet losses from rural electrification operations. But in view of the mas-
sive investment made by SEBs the losses cannot reasonably be met in this
way and the farmers should cover a larger proportion of long term electricity
costs.
3.09      Also likely to affect adversely the finances of the SEBs are
GOI plans under the Draft Pifth Plan to make additional capital available
to REC under the "Minimum Needs Program" to finance RE schemes in the back-
ward regions of the States. This capital is to be routed through the REC in
order to utilize its expertise in project formulation and appraisal. But in
view of the unremunerative nature of these investments, REC's viability
criteria would be similar to the most relaxed ones applicable to normal
projects.
3.10      To be consistent with the underlying policy of encouraging SEBs
to become financially viable and at the same time support the effort made
by Power Credit 377-IN, GOI has agreed that REC would relend the funds
representing the Association credit only to those SEBs 2/ whose earnings
enable them to meet their rate-of-return obligations under Loan 416-IN and
any other SEB whose State Government agrees to provide it with a subsidy for
RE operations either in accordance with the terms of Credit 377-IN or to
the extent required to meet its rate-of-return obligation, whichever is lower.
OI has also agreed that REC would relend the funds representing the proposed
credit for financing only those projects which met specific viability criteria
described in para 3.16.
Relending of Credit by GOI to the REC
3.11      Due to the large interest free grant from the US and the low cost
capital made available by GOI (para 3.02) the overall cost of capital to
1/   Those of Assam, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu.
It is likely that four more State Governments (Bihar, West Bengal,
Maharashtra and Gujarat) would agree to subsidization as part of a pro-
posed credit for power transmission. There are indications that the
State Government of Uttar Pradesh might agree as well.
2/   Initially this would cover the SEBs of Assam, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Karnataka, Orissa and Tamil Nadu.



- 9 -
the REC has been about 1% in the past. REC has made relatively soft loans
to the SEBs, yielding an average of about 5.5% per annum.
3.12      GOI's past capital contributions were made in equal proportions
of equity and debt but this proportion will not be maintained in future.
GOI has indicated that of the Rs 630 million capital contribution for FY 1975,
Rs 190 million would be equity and the balance debt. REC expects to raise
additional capital in the form of market loans. 1/ The growing proportion
of debt capital together with the increased interest rates on it will
increase the cost of REC's financial resources considerably. REC raised
its lending rates on new loans from April 1, 1974 (Annex 1, Appendix 1-G).
3.13      GOI has agreed to onlend the sum of Rs 456 million (the equivalent
of US$57 million converted at the rate of Rs 8.00 to the dollar) on its
normal terms for such lending. For the Minimum Needs Program these loans are
for 30 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest of 5-1/4% for the
first 10 years, 5-3/4% for the second 10 years and 6-1/4% for the last ten
years. For other loans, the terms are 20 years' maturity, including 5 years'
grace, and interest at 7-3/4%.
Financing of REC Loans
3.14      From FY 1970 through 1974 REC was provided with capital of approxi-
mately Rs 1,715 million to finance rural electrification and Harijan Bastis 2/
schemes. It sanctioned loans of Rs 3,040 million, of which it still had
commitments for future disbursements of Rs 1,397 million as at March 31,
1974 as follows (Annex 7):
FY 75    FY 76    FY 77    FY 78    FY 79   FY 80
--------(in million of Rupees)-
282      210      320       330      250        5
Funds are not retained by REC to meet future disbursements on loans
sanctioned. 3/ In FY 1975 there would be no problem as the GOI's capital
contribution of Rs 630 million, together with market borrowings of Rs 82.5
million and REC's cash balances, would provide more funds than necessary to
meet the year's disbursements of REs 282 million on existing loans sanctioned
1/   REC was recently cleared to go to the market for an amount of RB 82.5
million and preliminary indications are that it should be successful in
raising that amount at reasonable terms.
2/   The most underprivileged section of the population (see Annex 1, para 19).
Harijan Bastis schemes are not covered by the proposed Credit as they
do not have to meet any particular viability criteria.
3/   If REC reserved funds to meet future disbursements of loans sanctioned,
fewer loans would be sanctioned e.g. each Rs 100 million of capital
would finance 20 loans of Rs 5 million each with funds reserved to meet
disbursements; with funds not so reserved each Rs 100 million finances
the initial advance of about 60 schemes of Rs 5 million.



- 10 -
to March 31, 1974. The balance of Rs 488 million would be used by REC during
FY 1975 to make initial advances on about 335 additional schemes 1/ sanctioned
during that year which would add Rs 720 million to REC's commitments for future
disbursements as at March 31, 1975 (Annex 7). GOI has agreed to provide REC
with capital each year not only to cover initial advances required for RE
schemes included in the project but also to close any financial gap REC
might experience to meet that year's disbursements on loans existing at
the beginning of the year.
REC's Lending Terms and Financial Criteria for Loans
3.15      Except for consumers' contributions, REC loans normally cover the
total cost of approved schemes. They were initially supposed to be disbursed
over a five-year period, however REC's recent disbursement forecasts indicate
a two-year slippage in the progress of schemes (para 3.17). Loans sanctioned
through March 31, 1974 carry low interest in the early years of 4%, 5% or 6%
per annum increasing by steps to 8% after 15, 20 or 25 years depending on the
type of schemes (Annex 1, Appendix 1-F), the hypothesis being that the borrower
should be able to afford higher interest as the scheme matures. Through
March 31, 1974 REC's financial criteria for lending required that projects
produce an estimated annual revenue by the fifth year sufficient to meet
expenses of operation (including depreciation) and interest, and to generate
a small surplus.
3.16      REC has increased its lending rates on loans sanctioned since
April 1, 1974 to 5-3/4%, 6-1/2%, and 7-1/2% in the early years with stepped
increases to 9% . Its financial criteria for lending from April 1, 1974
require only break-even points in the seventh, tenth and fifteenth year
for so-called Ordinary Advanced (OA), Ordinary Backward (OB) and Specially
Underdeveloped (SU) as well as Minimum Needs Program (MNP) schemes, res-
pectively (Annex 1, Appendix 1-G). In conventional terms these break-even
points are equivalent to internal financial rates of return ranging from
about 10% to 5%. As explained in para. 5.03, economic returns would generally
be substantially higher and, consequently, the REC's present sanctioning
criteria are acceptable as a screening process ensuring adequate economic
viability. In addition to 0A, OB, SU and MNP schemes, Mini Farm (MF) and
System Improvement (SS) schemes would also be eligible for Association
financing, the former because they are exclusively for minor irrigation
loads located close to the main grid and the latter because they are highly
justified by the substantial reduction in line losses in existing overloaded
rural distribution networks. REC7s sanctioning criteria for these schemes
also ensure adequate economic viability.
Ex-post Evaluation of REC-financed Schemes
3.17      As mentioned in para. 3.15, REC's recent disbursement forecast
indicates a two-year slippage in the progress of schemes. This raises the
broader question as to whether sanctioned schemes actually meet the via-
bility criteria envisaged at the stage of appraisal. It would have been
1/   Including 35 Harijan Basti schemes.



- 11 -
difficult until now to address this question meaningfully because of the too
short period of existence of REC. However, schemes sanctioned in the early
years of operation of REC should soon reach an advanced stage of implementa-
tion. It is proposed that an Association supervision mission be sent to
India within a year or so after Board sanctioning of the proposed credit to
review REC's ex-post evaluation of schemes sanctioned. This exercise could
serve as a basis for deciding on whether or not the Association should con-
sider going ahead with a repeater rural electrification credit.
Audit
3.18      The Comptroller and Auditor General of India is empowered to appoint
an independent auditor registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 to
audit REC's accounts. He is also empowered to direct the manner in which
the REC's accounts are audited, to conduct a 'test' audit as he may think
fit, and make comment upon or supplement the audit report made by the pro-
fessional auditor. The audit of REC's books as at March 31, 1974 was under-
taken by M. Pal and Coy, Chartered Accountants (India) and was carried out
satisfactorily. REC has agreed to furnish within six months of the end of
each fiscal year its financial statements as audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association.
IV. THE PROJECT
Definition
4.01      The project would consist of a tranche of about 140 rural electri-
fication schemes each of about Rs 5 million for those SEBs referred to in
paragraph 3.10. These schemes - which would become identified only as SEBs
would request REC financing - would involve about 40,000 km of primary and
secondary distribution lines, distribution transformers with an aggregate
capacity of 500 MVA, poles and miscellaneous equipment. More than half of
the connected load would be for irrigation pumping (para 5.02). The schemes
would be carried out by the SEBs concerned. The total project cost is
estimated at US$114 million. The proposed credit of US$57 million, re-
presenting 50% of the total cost of the project, would be available to cover
the cost of conductors, transformers, circuit breakers, capacitors, insula-
tors and meters and 50% of the cost of poles. At present six SEBs are
eligible. Disbursement of the credit would be accelerated as other SEBs
become eligible (para 3.10).
Estimated Costs of the Project
4.02      Based on the average RE scheme, the estimated costs of the various
project components are:



- 12 -
Component             Local   Foreign    Total      Pcrcentage
-  US$ (millions) -
Conductors                        9.2      19.4      28.6        25.0%
Transformers & Circuit Breakers  4.8        6.6       11.4       10.0%
Poles                             17.1       -        17.1       15.0%
Capacitors, Insulators &
Meters                            4.8      3.7        8.5        7.5%
Miscellaneous Equipment &
Service Connections              20.0       -       20.0        17.5%
Transport and Erection           11.4        -        11.4       10.0%
Supervision, Overhead, Audit,
Physical Contingency             17.1       -        17.1       15.0%
Total                  84.4     29.7      114.1       100.0%
The estimates are based on the current cost pattern of schemes prepared by
the SEBs and reviewed by the REC. They are generally considered adequate
in view of the large degree of equipment standardization and the experience
of the SEBs and the REC. Estimates for equipment and materials are on the
basis of the current production of domestic manufacturers since the bulk
of the orders are expected to be placed in India. A physical contingency
allowance of 3% of the total cost of each scheme has been included. Since
the schemes are well-defined when approved by the REC, this should be
adequate. However REC loans for specific SEB schemes should cover price
escalation as the SEBs may not be able to secure additional funds elsewhere.
During negotiations, REC agreed to set aside a fixed percentage, initially
15%, of the value of all newly sanctioned loans to cover the estimated price
escalation over the construction period. Specific price contingencies have
not been taken into account in the Association Credit in view of the nature
of the overall project, i.e. a tranche of REC program. However, the
estimated volume of work covered by the Credit is based on expected amounts
of materials obtainable during the full disbursement period at prices expected
to be in effect in each procurement year.
Preparation and Construction of REC-financed RE Schemes
4.03      After a project report has been submitted by a SEB to REC, an
REC appraisal mission reviews the project features and coordinates other
related rural development programs. Once sanctioned, the projects are
executed by the SEBs which have competent construction departments, in
some cases a separate RE department.
Procurement
4.04      The credit would finance overhead line conductors, transformers,
circuit breakers, capacitors, insulators and meters, required for REC financed
schemes, and procured after international competitive bidding, in accordance
with the Association's guidelines. Each SEB would be responsible for its



- 13 -
own procurement using standard technical specifications already prepared by
REC and standard General Conditions of Contract approved by the Association
in connection with Credits 242-IN and 377-IN (Power Transmission Projects ii
and III). REC would provide assistance to the SEBs in the preparation of b-id
documentation and would check that the quantities of items for which bids
are solicited accord with those required for sanctioned schemes. REC would
also review and comment upon the evaluation of bids prepared by the SEBs
before seeking Association approval to place orders.
4.05      The items to be procured by each SEB through international com-
petitive bidding would be grouped into packages each estimated to cost not
less than US$1.0 million, provided, however, that for those SEBs whose annual
requirements of equipment for REC financed schemes are less than this amount,
each SEB would group its total estimated annual requirement for these items
in a single bid invitation. Poles, valued at about US$17.1 million, would
be procured after local competitive bidding since their weight, and the
resulting transportation cost, makes them unsuitable for international
tendering.
4.06      Indian manufacturers are expected to participate in bidding for
conductors, transformers, circuit breakers, capacitors, insulators and meters
with a domestic preference, in the case of preferred 1/ Indian bidders, of
15% or the import duty, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids.  Based
on experience gained from Credits 242-IN and 377-IN (Power Transmission
Projects II and III) it is likely that at least 80% of the conductor contracts
would be placed with Indian manufacturers. Although less is known about the
competitiveness of Indian manufacturers of other equipment for which inter-
national bids will be sought, it is estimated that they might win about 70%
of orders. Given that the estimated foreign exchange component of ex-factory
costs for conductors, transformers and other equipment is 60%, 40% and 20%,
respectively, the foreign exchange requirement of the project for these
items would be about US$30 million.
4.07      Assurances were obtained from the GOI during negotiations (as was
the case for Credits 242-IN and 377-IN) that when, after international com-
petitive bidding and the application of preferences in the manner described
above, the lowest evaluated bid is from a foreign manufacturer, permission
to import will be forthcoming immediately without review by the Directorate
General of Technical Development, or any other agency of the central govern-
ment.
Disbursements
4.08      Disbursements from the Credit would cover (i) the c.i.f. cost of im-
ported goods or ex-factory cost of goods procured in India after international
bidding, and (ii) 50% of the cost of poles after local competitive bidding.
4.09      It is expected that substantial disbursements would commence about
twelve months after the signing of the proposed Credit and would be completed
1/   i.e. those bidders for whom the manufacturing cost of goods include a
value added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price.



- 14 -
four years later or earlier depending upon the number of beneficiary SEBs.
Estimated cumulative disbursements by half-year periods are shown in Annex 3.
V. PROJECT ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
5.01      GOI's policy of rapidly expanding RE throughout the country is a
key element in coordinated rural development programs designed to achieve
increased economic benefits and improve living conditions in rural areas.
The main economic benefits to the community at large result from increased
agricultural production. Irrigation pumpsets, for which electrical power is
generally more economical than diesel power in the proposed project would
provide farmers with adequate water supply throughout the year. This permits
intensified land use and the enhancement of agricultural output by use of
high yielding seed varieties. A second class of benefits is the hastened
introduction of small scale industry, particularly agro-industries, which
augments the value added in rural areas, supplements the farmer's income
and creates new employment opportunities. The extension of electricity
service to domestic/commercial consumers provides several benefits that are
only partly quantifiable, especially ex ante. They include: (a) resource
savings over substitutes (e.g. kerosene); (b) value of quality benefits of
electricity over alternatives (e.g. lighting, ironing); (c) value of extra
output (e.g. more lighting, fans); and (d) possible savings in urban costs
foregone due to a curb in the rural-urban migration. Finally there are the
income distribution benefits resulting from the policy of paying particular
attention and granting relaxed financial terms to help start the development
process in the poorest and most backwards areas. The nature of the program -
including particularly the fact that the location of individual schemes will
only be known once the SEBs have made their requests - makes it impossible
to describe in advance the income levels of beneficiaries. Therefore, no
attempt was made to quantify income distribution benefits, and only consumers
payments are available as partial measures of domestic connection benefits.
5.02      The Project would benefit about 55,000 farmers - mostly small -
and their dependents and 210,000 domestic/commercial consumers who would
receive connections in 6,250 villages where 35,000 street lights would also
be installed. More than one half of the connected load would be for irriga-
tion pumping, the remaining half being divided equally between small industries
and domestic and commercial connections, while street lighting would represent
less than 1% of the total load. Based on the value of agricultural and small
industry incremental output and the expected revenues from domestic/commercial
consumers, and after making appropriate adjustments in respect of taxes,
the economic rate of return on investment on a typical REC-financed project
(including generation and transmission costs and consumers' costs) is estimated
at 23%. This is a minimum estimate in as much as it does not take full account
of the socio-economic benefits of village electrification. Annex 4 further
shows that in the average REC-financed project where a well cluster approach



- 15 -
is used (a) electric pumping is more economical than diesel pumping 1/; (b)
the benefits of minor irrigation investments based on electric pumping are
larger than the costs associated with the supply of electricity only to the
wells; and (c) the revenues from village electrification are of the same
order of magnitude incremental electrification costs once the main distri-
bution lines are justified on the basis of the benefits of minor irrigation.
5.03      REC does not directly ensure that individual rural electrification
schemes are economically justified as it sanctions them on the basis of
purely financial criteria (para. 3.16). However the net economic benefits
depend on some of the same variables as the net financial revenues (such
as cost of scheme, electric load per kilometer of distribution line, etc.).
Under almost all reasonable assumptions, economic rates of return substantially
exceed the internal financial returns which range from about 5% to 10% depend-
ing on the type of scheme (para. 3.16). The 23% return on a typical REC-
financed scheme (para. 5.02) is an all-India average and there is no ironclad
guaranty against the occasional sanctioning of an economically unjustified
scheme. However a review of the conditions prevailing in each State indicates
that it is unlikely that schemes meeting REC's financial criteria would have
economic rates of return below 10%. REC's present sanctioning criteria are
acceptable to the Association as a screening process ensuring adequate
economic viability.
Pricing Policy
5.04      GOI's pricing policy regarding rural electricity supplies is clearly
one of subsidizing both agricultural and village consumers. Admittedly,
subsidization is generally necessary in the first years of operations by
the very nature of RE, i.e. relatively long distribution lines and small and
seasonally fluctuating loads tend to raise the short-term economic cost of
electricity to levels that most rural consumers cannot afford. However, a
specific feature of Indian rural electrification programs is the heavy
emphasis on minor irrigation investments from which most farmers are making
large profits. Annex 4, para 11 shows that the return on typical minor
irrigation investments is 27% under assumptions equivalent to an electricity
charge of .45 Rs per kWh, whereas most farmers enjoy rates ranging from
.12 to .28 Rs/kWh 2/ (See Annex 5 for average rates of rural electricity
supplies). Except perhaps in those areas where an incentive is still neces-
sary to promote the development of "minor" irrigation practices, there is
clearly scope for a substantial increase in electricity rates for agriculture.
The issue of RE tariffs cannot normally be dealt with separately, as cross
subsidization could be considered as a method to meet losses from rural
electrification operations. But in view of the massive RE investments made
1/   Diesel pumping still has an important role to play as it is the appro-
priate alternative when wells are too scattered or located too far away
from the main transmission lines.
2/   A recent Bank tariff study in Andra Pradesh indicates that farmers pay
less than half the long-term development cost of power supplies for
agriculture in that state.



- 16 -
by SEBs the losses cannot reasonably be met in this way and the farmers
should cover a larger proportion of long-term electricity costs (paras
3.08 and 3.10).
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.01      REC's annual revenues come from the interest on its loans and the
investment of surplus cash. They are used to meet administration expenses
and interest on Government loans. In FY 1974 administration cost was equiv-
alent to 9% of revenue, while the interest cost was 17% of revenue. At
March 31, 1974, REC's debt was Rs 353 million out of total capital of
Rs 1,761 million. Interest at 6% per annum on the loan component resulted
in an expense of less than 1% on capital.
Financial Position
6.02      REC's financial situation is satisfactory.  Its position as at
March 31, 1974, is summarized below:
Rs. Million      US$ Million      %
Capitalization
Share Capital                 310.0            38.7         17
US Grant                 1,050.0            131.2         60
Retained Earnings           48.5              6.1          3
1,408.5           176.0         80
Long Term Debt              353.4            44.2         20
1S761.9           220.2        100
Represented by:
Fixed Assets                  0.6             0.1
Loans Disbursed
(net of repayment)   1,642.5            205.3         93
Temporary Investment /1   118.0              14.7          7
Current Assets less
Liabilities               0.8              0.1
1,761.9           220.2        100
/1   In Government Securities.
By March 31, 1974, REC had received Rs 1,050 million from the US in the form
of a grant, Rs 620 million for rural electrification purposes from 0OI in
equal portions of equity shares and 6% loan, additional loans of Rs 45 million
for minimal street lighting in Harijan Bastis areas, and had retained earnings
of Rs 48 million. Long term debt represented 20% of total capitalization.
Balance sheets, actual FY 1970 through FY 1974 and forecast FY 1975 through
1979 are shown in Annex 6.
6.03      REC had by March 31, 1974 appraised and approved 618 1, Rural Elec-
trification Schemes and 75 Harijan Basti Schemes (Annex 7), amounting to
1/   REC approved a further 340 schemes during FY1975.



- 17 -
Rs 3,004.2 million and Rs 36.7 million, respectively, i.e. a total of
Rs 3,040.9 million. Against this, it had disbursed Rs 1,643.7 million
(representing 93% of its capital) leaving undischarged commitments of
Rs 1,397.2 million, the funds for which are being sought from GOI (paragraph
3.14).
6.04      Its Articles of Association empower REC to create Reserve Funds
for extending and improving its property and for other purposes conducive
to the interests of the Corporation. The REC has indicated that part of
its earned surplus would be used to finance rural electrification schemes.
By March 31, 1974, the REC had created a Special Development Reserve
(Rs 14.0 million) and a Special Reserve (Rs 10.3 million) by appropriation
of retained earnings. The Special Development Reserve was created to (i)
provide special term loans to State Governments to assist them to subscribe
to the share capital of Rural Electric Cooperatives, (ii) provide grants to
approved organizations for research and development and (iii) provide grants
toward construction cost in specially under-developed areas. The Special
Reserve was created under the Income Tax Act 1961 to enable annual deduction
for Income Tax purposes of about 9.1% of the taxable income.
Financing Plan
6.05      Annex 7 sets out the estimated disbursements of RE loans spread
over five years. Harijan Basti loans are disbursed over two years. In
FY 1974 the REC disbursed Rs 246.2 million on existing RE loans, Rs 10.4 mil-
lion on Harijan Basti loans and Rs 265.8 million as initial advances of new
loans. In FY 1975 forecast disbursements on loans amount to Rs 770 million,
Rs 282 million in respect of existing RE loans sanctioned up to March 31,
1974 and Rs 488 for initial advances on new loan sanctions of Rs 1,200 mil-
lion and Rs 20 million on Harijan Basti schemes. Based on the Draft Fifth
Plan, GOI would provide most of the capital required by REC (para. 3.14).
A small part would come from bond issues and from repayments of loans by
borrowers.
6.06      Due to difficulty in forecasting the annual capital which may be
available to REC, its forecasts are used as the basis of the Source and
Application of Funds through FY 1979 in Annex 8. The following statement
summarizes the transactions during FY 1975 and FY 1976-79 when the proposed
IDA Credit would be disbursed.



- 18 -
FY 75      FY76-79      US$ Million    %
--Rs Million--
Source of Funds
Internal Cash Generation        65.7        281.1
Less Tax                        (33.4)     (144.0)
Dividend                   (3.1)       (27.7)
Repayment of GOI loans    (3.0)        (31.1)
Net Cash Generation              26.2        78.3           9.8         1
Capital Subscribed
GOI Equity                     190.0        500.0
GOI Loans                      440.0      5,097.5 /a
Market Loans                    82.5        400.0
712.5     5,997.5         749.7        95
Sales of Government Securities        56.3        57.3           7.1         1
Repayment of Loans by SEB              2.1       167.8          21.0         3
Total Sources                  797.1      6,300.9         787.6       100
Application of Funds
Assets                           0.2          0.8           -
Investment in Government
Securities                     -          210.1          26.3        3
Disbursement of Loans          770.0      6,090.0         761.3       97
Working Capital Increase         26.9         -             -         -
797.1     6,300.9         787.6       100
/a   Includes IDA Credit of US$57 million onlent to REC.
6.07      Until priority is established in appropriating profits, it is
assumed that net cash generation (net of working capital increases and
the repayment of the annual instalments of GOI loans) would be available
to finance rural electrification loans. To the extent that funds are
appropriated for reserves which may not be available to finance such
loans, the GOI's capital contributions to REC would need to be increased.
Future Finance
6.08      The projections (Annex 9) show that revenue would increase six
fold from Rs 73.6 million in FY 1974 to Rs 430.2 million in FY 1979. Revenue
consists of interest on loans, and investment of surplus cash while expenses



- 19 -
cover administration costs and interest on borrowed money. Operating
income would increase by 24% from Rs 53.9 million in FY 1974 to Rs 66.7
million in FY 1979. The administration cost would fall from 9% of revenue
in FY 1974 to 4% in FY 1979 while the interest cost would rise from 17%
of revenue in FY 1974 to 80% of revenue by FY 1979.
6.09      Internally generated funds after interest on loans and income
tax would amply cover annual debt amortization - ranging from 20 times in
FY 1974 to 2 times by FY 1979. Net cash generation would represent 1.5%
of the total capital disbursed during the 5th Plan period. REC's commitment
to finance undisbursed loans at the end of each year would range between
Rs 1,835 million and Rs 2,345 million. Debt as a percentage of capital-
ization would increase from 20% in FY 1974 to 74% in FY 1979.
6.10      In order to ensure that REC would have sufficient funds to meet
its annual obligations for its debt service, the REC and the GOI have agreed
to ensure that:
(i)  the aggregate amount of the REC annual interest from all
sources (net of administration expenses, tax and dividends)
and the sums representing the repayments of principal made
by borrowers in any financial year shall be not less than
1.2 times its debt service requirements during that financial
year.
(ii) REC's administrative and interest expenses shall not exceed
90% of its revenues in any year.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  The Government of India will:
(i)  onlend a sum of Rs 456 million (the equivalent of the
proposed Credit of $57 million) to the REC on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association (para-
graph 3.13);
(ii) provide REC with capital each year sufficient to
close any financial gap REC might experience to meet
its commitments for disbursements on loans sanctioned
previously (paragraph 3.14); and
(iii) ensure that (a) REC's internally generated funds in any
financial year shall not be less than 1.2 times its debt
service requirements during that financial year, and (b)
REC's administrative expenses and interest payments in



- 20 -
any financial year shall not exceed 90% of the aggregate
interest charges received by REC from all sources during
that financial year (para 6.10).
(b) The Rural Electrification Corporation will:
(i) relend the funds representing the Association credit
only to those SEBs whose earnings enable them to meet
their rate-of-return obligations under Loan 416-IN
and any other SEB whose State Government agrees to
provide it with a subsidy for RE operations either
in accordance with the terms of Credit 377-IN or to
the extent required to meet its rate-of-return
obligation, whichever is lower (para 3.10);
(ii) relend the funds representing the Association's
credit only in respect of those projects which
would meet the specific viability criteria shown
in Annex 1, Appendix 1-G (Categories OA, OB, SU,
MNP, MF or SS) (paragraph 3.16); and
Ciii) set aside a fixed percentage, initially 15%, of the
value of all newly sanctioned loans to cover the
estimated price escalation over the construction
period (paragraph 4.02).
7.02      The Project is suitable for an Association Credit of US$57 million
equivalent.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
The Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
Establishment of the REC
1.        Following the recommendations of the All-India Rural Credit Review
Committee (1966-69) under the chairmanship of Shri B. Venkatappiah, the
Government established the REC on July 25, 1969 under the Indian Companies
Act as an autonomous body placed under the supervision of the Ministry of
Irrigation and Power. The Corporation, wholly owned by the Government, was
registered with an authorized capital of Rs 100 million (later increased to
Rs 500 million). The Central Plan outlay to be channelled through REC during
the 4th Plan (1970 through 1974) was initially set at Rs 1,500 million. 70%
of this, or Rs 1,050 million was to be provided as a grant from US PL 480
counterpart funds 1/. The remaining 30%, or Rs 450 million was to be con-
tributed by GOI in equal parts of equity and loan.
Objectives and Operational Policy
2.        Extending beyond mere financing of schemes, the functions of REC
give it the role of a development financing organization. REC's chief
objectives are:
(a) to finance rural electrification schemes throughout India;
(b) to subscribe to special RE bonds issued by SEBs;
(c) to promote and finance rural electric cooperatives; and
(d) to administer funds received from GOI and other sources
for financing rural electrification.
3.        REC's charter provides that MOI may issue directives to the REC for
the conduct of its business.  To date the main 2/ directives require REC to:
(a) establish policies and procedures for consideration,
approval and implementation of rural electrification
schemes to be financed by it;
1/   The US agreed on July 26, 1969 to provide this grant.
2/   Appendix 1-E shows copies of two letters from GOI to REC, dated July 26,
1969 and September 9, 1974, giving more details on these directives.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) develop and apply criteria for establishing priorities as
regards the choice of schemes and the basis of economic
viability; and
(c) adopt a "project approach" so that extension of electricity
along with other investments results in increased agricultural
production in the area.
Organization and Management
4.        REC's management is vested in a Board of Directors which must
consist of not less than three, and not more than twelve members, all of whom
are appointed by the Government. The Board consists of a part time Chairman,
a full time Managing Director, a full time Technical Director, and nine part
time Directors (see names and functions of Directors in Appendix 1-A).
5.        Appendices 1-B, C, D show the organization chart of REC which is
briefly described here. The Managing Director is the Chief Executive Officer
and is in charge of all divisions with the exception of the Technical
Division which is the special responsibility of the Technical Director. A
good liaison exists between these two officers who both report to the
Chairman of the Board.
6.        The Technical Division comprises four Cells.  Three of them are
Area Desks, each under the charge of a Chief Engineer (who reports to the
Technical Director) and is responsible for technical appraisals and monitor-
ing of projects. Additionally, one of the Chief Engineers also looks after
the special schemes for transmission, cooperatives, harijan bastis, and
small generation, both in respect of pre-sanction technical appraisal and
monitoring. The fourth Cell is responsible for Engineering Research and
Development besides evolving standards for materials, specifications and
construction practices and is headed by the Officer on Special Duty who also
reports to the Technical Director.
7.        The Project Appraisal and Coordination and Evaluation (current)
Division (PACE) comprises four Cells. The Specialists' Cell provides support
to all the Divisions in REC in matters relating to such disciplines as
management, economics, statistics, agriculture, ground water, etc. The
Project Appraisal Cell carries out pre-sanction economic appraisal of projects
thus providing team support to the Technical Division in project appraisal. 1/
The Coordination Cell is primarily responsible for matters relating to
coordination between SEBs and various other concerned development agencies
at the State and Project level as well as on matters relating to coordination
1/   A typical field appraisal mission consists of one engineer from the
Technical Appraisal Cell and one economist from the Project Appraisal
Cell. A Finance Officer is also associated with the appraisal mission
in the appraisal of Composite Schemes. Financial analysis is other-
wise carried out at headquarters (para 9).



ANNEX 1
Page 3
between REC on the one hand and other c6ncerned agencies on the other hand.
The Evaluation Cell is in charge of current evaluation and accordingly re-
views the progress of implementation of projects financed by REC.
8.        The Planning, Evaluation, Research and Training Division (PERT) is
responsible for carrying out perspective evaluation studies on the performance
of projects and the overall impact of REC projects on the rural economy as a
whole. PERT Division is also responsible for coordinating the applied
research/evaluation studies sponsored by the Corporation. The Division is
also responsible for systematizing the training programs for REC staff as
well as SEB staff who are engaged in the formulation, implementation, monitor-
ing of rural electrification projects.
9.        The Finance Division comprises eight units.  The Loans Section
Unit maintains the accounts of disbursements of loans. The Bills Unit deals
with bills of the expenditure of REC. The Internal Audit does the internal
audit of the accounts of REC. The Commercial Accounts Unit prepares
financial statements as required by the Statute. The Pre-Sanction Appraisal
Unit examines the financial viability of projects at the pre-sanction stage
in the light of the data furnished in the project reports by the SEBs. The
Cooperative Accounts Unit looks after the loan operations relating to the
five pilot rural electric cooperative projects financed by REC. The Perform-
ance Audit Unit audits the accounts of the projects financed by REC at their
implementation stage and also provides team support to the Technical Monitoring
Cell. The cost verification unit is responsible for verification of cost
data of rural electrification projects and cost of power applied to rural
electrification projects in respect of each State Electricity Board.
10.       The Cooperative, Organization, Planning and Training Division
(COPT) is responsible for organization and development of rural electric co-
operatives besides providing guidance to the existing five pilot rural
electric cooperatives.
11.       The total staff of the REC as of January 1975 was 357 consisting
of 11 principal officers, 55 engineers, 72 specialists/professionals (inter-
mediate and higher level), 69 junior professionals and the balance were
general staff. 1/
Personnel Hiring and Training
12.       A major portion of the officers and staff of the REC are drawn
from various Central and State Government Departments, State Electricity Boards,
Reserve Bank of India and other similar institutions. For the Technical Division,
the recruits are electrical engineers mostly drawn on a deputation basis from
the SEBs, Central Water and Power Commission/Central Electricity Authority and
other similar organizations in the country. The level of recruiting is
1/   While the bulk of the staff is in the head-office in Delhi, REC has
recently opened Regional Offices at Calcutta, Lucknow and Jabalpur.
More Regional Offices are proposed to be opened in the near future.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
normally not below that of executive engineer so that these officers already
possess adequate technical expertise and can be given proper stature in
the field as the SEB counterparts whom they meet during appraisal missions
will generally have a lower rank. Training in this case consists of
orientation and on the job training by attaching the fresh recruits to
experienced personnel in the Division, as under-study. The personnel attached
to the PACE Division, PERT Division and COPT Division, are professional eco-
nomists, regional planners, geo-hydrologists, statisticians and econometri-
cians, etc. holding Master's degree or Doctorates in the relevant disciplines
with experience in project formulation and appraisal. The newly appointed
personnel are required to undergo a probation period of at least six months.
During this period, they are required to study REC's procedures and method-
ology in the processing of projects and sanction of loans and are attached
with experienced personnel in the Division as under-study officers. For the
Finance Division, the senior and middle officers are recruited on a deputation
basis from Audit and Account services, commercial banks and SEBs. Informal
short duration on the job orientation and training are provided to them.
13.       In addition to on-the-job training provided within REC, key officers
are sponsored for training programs, seminars, etc., both within the country
and abroad. For example REC has already sponsored 6 officers for training
in the USA in the field of organization, development and management of
rural electric cooperatives. Also top level executives have attended
seminars organized by the management institutions and consultancy organi-
zations in India. REC has recently organized a five week training course
in rural electrification, project formulation and appraisal for the middle
level executives of the SEBs and State Departments in collaboration with the
National Training Centre for Agricultural Development and Project Planning
in the Indian Agricultural Research Institute at Delhi. REC was actively asso-
ciated in the development of the course program and providing the faculty
and also sponsored 3 of its middle level officers to attend this course.
REC's Lending Terms and Financial Criteria for Sanctioning Loans
14.       Up to March 31, 1974 the chief criterion was that the estimated
revenue from a project should be sufficient by the fifth year to meet expenses
of operation (including depreciation) and interest on Loans, and produce
a surplus at least equal to 0.5% of the investment, except in the case
of Specially Under-developed (SU) category of schemes in which case 0.5%
return was expected at the end of the 10th year. As a result of the findings
of studies commissioned by the Corporation (in respect of materialization of
loads in the light of actual field conditions) the Corporation modified its
viability criteria for its loans from April 1, 1974 which now call for
revenue breaking even with expenses in the seventh, tenth and fifteenth year
of certain loans instead of maintaining the criteria 1/ and requiring
increased tariffs by SEBs to compensate for the increased interest expense.
1/  As REC's financial criteria do not tell us what the internal financial
rates of return (IFR) are over the life of the projects, the Association
staff computed that these would be 9.9% (OA), 8.3% (OB), 5.9% (SU) and
5.4% (MNP) under the assumption that REC targets are just achieved for
projects sanctioned after April 1, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
The funding pattern of REC has also undergone some major changes. Now REC
raises its resources for the major part from Government (half equity and half
loan so far) and partly by way of open market borrowings. REC is no longer
in receipt of any grant funds as it had during the Fourth Five Year Plan
from the US. The rate of lending by the GOI to REC on the loan portion of
its contribution was stepped up from April 1, 1974. In the light of the
change in the funding pattern, REC also stepped up its rate of interest on
its loans to SEBs.
15.       Apart from a small consumer's contribution REC normally finances
100% of project costs. There are exceptions for Special Transmission (ST)
projects (para 17), System Improvement (SS) projects (para 18) and, in some
cases, Ordinary Advanced (OA) projects 1/. Regarding the latter category
of projects, REC decided to limit its direct assistance to 60% of the proJect
cost whenever a former OA loan has already been sanctioned in the same
district and the project is located in a state above the all-India level of
village electrification. In the event, however, of the SEB choosing to
raise the balance 40% by floatation of rural electrification bonds, the
REC would subscribe to the bonds on a 50/50 basis and also accept a lower
rate of interest for its subscription.
16.       REC has allowed a differentiation with regards to terms of repayment
and minimum return targets favorable to "backward" areas. This is in recog-
nition of the fact that in these areas it takes a longer time for electricity
demand to build up and, therefore, a longer time for a project to become
financially viable. A further relaxation has been made in the case of "spe-
cially underdeveloped hill areas" 2/ where it takes even longer for a project
to become viable. In order to classify projects in one of the above categories,
REC examines socio-economic indicators related to income, cropping patterns,
intensity, and yields, size of holdings per cultivator, existing infrastructure
including utilities, transportation, credit facilities and industrial devel-
opment, rainfall conditions, etc. In general, States with socio-economic
indicators below the all-India average (or Districts with indicators below
the State average) qualify as "backward" or "specially underdeveloped", as
appropriate.
17.       During FY 1971-72, REC decided to create a special category of
loans for transmission systems in States which were at or below the all-India
average level of village electrification. This was later extended to all
States in the country. The following conditions are presently attached to
these Special Transmission (ST) loans: (a) the financial outlay of each
scheme should not exceed Rs 15 million and REC financing is limited to 80%
of the project cost, the balance of 20% being borne by the SEB; (b) the loan
1/   As of January 31, 1975, loans sanctioned by REC represented 85% of
project costs.
2/   This category was later extended to include underdeveloped desert and
tribal areas as well.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
is for a period of 12 years 1/ with a grace period of 2 years and carries
an interest of 7-1/2% to 8%; (c) the loan has to be fully guaranteed by the
State Government; and (d) the load potential in the area to be served by the
proposed ST transmission facilities should be such that within 5 years of
project completion, RE projects for extending electricity to the rural areas
can be developed in such a manner that those projects involve an investment
not less than twice the investment made under the ST project and meet the
relevant viability criteria.
18.       Also during FY 1971-72, REC decided to create a special category
of loans to help SEBs undertake the improvement of existing distribution
systems. This is to reduce the amount of physical line losses and also to
improve the economic outputs of the system in terms of electrical energy
and rural production. Such loans for System Improvement (SS) are for a
period of 8 years with a grace period of 2 years, and carry an interest of
7-1/2 to 8%. 2/ They are applicable to all States under the conditions that
a net return of at least 3-1/2% is reached at the end of the fifth year and
that the project cost does not exceed Rs 5 million nor is it higher than 20%
of the market value of the existing assets in the area. Furthermore, in the
case of States which are above the all-India level of village electrification,
REC financing is limited to 16% of the existing market value of the existing
assets.
19.       In February 1972, REC started to provide assistance to the SEBs
on behalf of GOI for the purpose of providing street lighting to Harijan
Bastis adjoining villages already electrified. The total 4th Plan alloca-
tion for this purpose was Rs 50 million to be channelled in part through REC.
Unlike other loans, these do not have to meet any particular viability
criteria.
20.       In October 1972, REC introduced two more categories of loan
assistance to SEBs in the nature of Mini projects designed to extend electri-
city to villages which could be identified as Growth Centres on the basis
of certain key indicators (MG category) and Primary Health Centres (MH
category along with a few dependent villages (not more than 5 to 10), which
together formed a strip or a cluster in some of the more backward among the
community development/National Extension Service Blocks. These projects
consist of two parts, one pertaining to the distribution of electricity to
the area and the other pertaining to the transmission line to the project
area. The area based part of the project is governed by the viability
criteria as relevant for the area i.e. OB or SU. The total project cost in
either category should not ordinarily exceed Rs. 1.5 million.
1/   Reduced to 10 years for States which are above the all-India level of
village electrification.
2/   7% for loans sanctioned up to Ilarch 31, 1974.



A NNEX 1
Page 7
21.       In August 1974, REC introduced a new category of loan - an advance
loan called AL-PPA (Advance Loan - Potential Project Areas) - so as to
assist the SEBs in electrification of areas which offer ready potential in
agricultural production but in respect of which formulation of a regular
area project may take some time. This advance loan is to be ultimately
merged with a regular scheme. The cost of an individual PPA scheme is
normally limited to Rs. 2 million.
22.       It has been decided by the Government of India in September 1974
that the funds provided for rural electrification under the National Mini-
mum Needs Program (MNP) in the Fifth Five Year Plan will be administered by
REC in accordance with the directions given by the Government (Annex 1,
Appendix 1-E, page 4). The total financial assistance to States out of MNP
funds are determined each year by the Government of India. Within these
limits, REC sanctions loans for individual projects (cost of which is limited
to Rs. 7.5 to 8 million). The estimated revenue from each project should be
sufficient by the 15th year to meet the expenses of operation, depreciation
and interest on loan and attain a net return of 3-1/2% by the end of 25th
year.
23.       In January 1975, REC decided to extend the scope of loan assis-
tance to SEBs for Mini projects for extension of electricity to such rural
industrial centres (MI loans) as are located in areas which are classified
as industrially backward and where the industries are eligible for a capital
subsidy under the Central Government scheme to the extent of 15% of the
capital cost. The loan outlay for this category is limited to Rs. 1.5 mil-
lion per project.
24.       In January 1975, the Corporation also decided to introduce a new
category of Mini Loan for Farm Production. These Loans (MF loans) are for
extension of electricity to one or more groups of villages (5-7 villages in
each- group) in a Community Development Block with a sizeable demand im-
mediately for pumpset energization existing in each group of villages. The
loan outlay is limited to a maximum of Rs. 1.5 million per project.
REC's Economic Evaluation of Projects
25.       As indicated in paras 6, 7, and 9, the evaluation of projects is
carried out by the staff of the various divisions in REC. Whereas the
organizational, technical and financial areas are fairly well defined, the
economic evaluation is less so as it covers a wider range of fields. It
is briefly discussed here in its three principal aspects: (a) whether the
project is economically integrated in an optimal manner within the develop-
ment of the area; (b) whether rural electrification is in general a sound
proposition on an all-India basis; and (c) whether individual projects under-
go a satisfactory economic screening process before being sanctioned.
26.       The coordination aspect is normally covered by REC as part of its
appraisal procedure which includes an investigation of the power market
assumptions, the coordination of the project with other programs in the



ANNEX 1
Page 8
area, the availability of the various inputs into tne project, etc. As far
as the availability of electric energy is concerned however REC only ensures
that plans for connecting the project area to the main power grid are ade-
quate. But it is not - and could hardly be - REC's function to check the
overall power supply/demand balance at bulk supply level. Past inadequate
control in this respect can only be remedied in the context of the whole
power sector.
27.       Concerning the general economic justification of RL in India, a
number of studies carried out by various Indian organizations conclude tnat
RE is a sound investment even if based only on increased agricultural output
and comparative cost saving. Moreover, beyond these net efficiency benefits,
RE is conceived partly as investment to achieve social justice and equality
in rural areas, particularly witih respect to income distribution, creation
of new employment possibilities and non-quantifiable benefits related to
health, education through improvement of reading habits, participation in
community institutions and curbing migration to urban areas. As a result,
both on economic and social grounds Indians are convinced that RE is in
general justified beyond debate. This report generally concurs with this
point of view provided that the necessary complementary inputs are normally
available. (For details on the economic justification, see Annex 4).
28.       As far as sanctioning of projects is concerned, REC relies on the
tenet explained above that RE is in general economically justified and it
screens projects on the basis of the financial criteria indicated in paras.
16 through 24 and in Appendix 1-G. The social and political objectives at-
tached to RE are reflected in the relaxation of the financial criteria for
projects in areas classified as "ordinary backwards" or "specially under-
developed" with a view to help reduce regional imbalances in level of develop-
ment and village electrification. Cost-benefit analysis based on economic
cost of inputs and economic value of outputs are normally not systematically
carried out on individual projects submitted to REC. However the net econo-
mic benefits depend on some of the same variables as the net financial reve-
nues (such as cost of scheme, electric load per kilometer of distribution
line, etc.). Under almost all reasonable assumptions, economic rates of
return would substantially exceed the internal financial returns (which range
from about 6% to 10% for SU, OB and OA schemes as indicated in a footnote to
para. 14). There is no ironclad guaranty against the occasional sanctioning
of an economically unjustified scheme. However a review of the conditions
prevailing in each State indicates tnat it is unlikely that schemes meeting
REC's financial criteria would have economic rates of return below 10%. The
rate of return on a typical REC-financed scheme would be about 23%. Since
full economic screening is not feasible financial criteria provide a good
second-best alternative for ensuring adequate economic viability.
Project Approach and Coordination with Other Concerned Agencies
29.       As indicated in para 3 (c), the directives issued by GOI to REC
enjoin the latter to adopt a project approach with a view to satisfying
itself with the availability of the necessary inputs such as groundwater,
credit infrastructure, raw materials, marketing facilities, etc. and to



AINTEX I
Page 9
achieve effective coordination of the rural electrification programs filianced
by REC with the programs of agricultural and industrial production sponsorej
by the State and/or the Central Government. For example a number of programs
involving investment in agriculture and small industries - such as SFDA, M&FAL,
etc. - are already being implemented by the various departments of Government.
Also, institutional finance is being made available for the agricultural
sector by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Agricultural Finance
Corporation, the Land Development Banks and the Commercial Banks. REC has
taken the initiative in pursuing with the SEBs and the State Governments the
setting up of Coordinating Committees at the State and District levels
consisting, among others, of representatives of SEBs, State Land Development
Banks, State Groundwater Organizations and State Planning Departments in
order to review the Implementation of ongoing projects and formulate future
programs. In most cases RE project proposals are processed along the chain
SEB-District Engineer-District Coordinating Committee-SEB-REC. The State
Government merely provides legal clearance as SEB's guarantor. At a different
level, REC and ARC have been holding mutual consultations in regard to
coordination of their programs and mutually exchange letters conveying
sanction of schemes.
30.       With regards to groundwater, REC insists on sufficient evidence
being produced of its availability and suitability for irrigation purposes.
In particular, REC satisfies itself that the total draft on account of well
energization does not exceed the annual recharge and that electric pumpsets
are not installed on wells having insufficient water.  Where the appro-
priate data are not furnished with the project report, REC asks that it be
provided with a certificate from a competent technical authority such as
the State Groundwater Organization. In REC, the PACE Division includes a
Groundwater Unit composed of two specialists. When necessary the groundwater
specialists visit project areas and have a second independent check in regard
to data as well as the functioning and technical capability of the State
Groundwater Organization. The REC verification procedure appears very similar
to that followed by ARC which has been accepted by the Association in con-
nection with Agricultural Credits. In the eleven states already covered by
Agricultural Credits the Association has helped build up the strength of the
State Groundwater Organizations. In Assam, Jammu & Kashmirs, Kerala, and
Bihar the State Groundwater Organizations are generally weak. However, this
does not create a difficult problem since (a) steps are being taken to
strengthen them in Bihar and West Bengal; (b) the scarcity of groundwater is
not an issue in the States of Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, or Kerala where the
number of existing wells is very low in relation to the quantity of ground-
water available; and (c) only about 10% of the wells energized under REC-
financed projects are located in the six states mentioned above.
Technical Coordination - Standardization
31.       REC has taken a leading role in standardization of equipment and
construction practices for which it has set up a special cell under the
supervision of the Technical Director. Technical Conferences on Standard-
ization are held periodically under the auspices of REC and are attended by



ANNEX I
Page 10
Chairmen/Technical Members/Chief Engineers of SEBs and representatives of
expert bodies such as CWPC, the Indian Standards Institution, etc. REC has
already issued specifications - which considerably reduce the variety of
materials used - for distribution transformers (25, 63, 100 KVA), for hard-
drawn stranded aluminium and steel-cored aluminium conductors for overhead
lines, and for 11 kv porcelain insulators and insulator fittings. These
specifications, which cover a substantial portion of the cost of RE schemes,
are expected to result in lower cost of equipment, reduced inventories,
shorter delivery periods and speedier project implementation. Also, REC
issued a number of construction standards covering construction of 11 kv
and 415/240 v lines, insulators and fittings for both 11 kv and 415/240 v
lines and distribution sub-stations. All SEBs agreed that these specifica-
tions should be adopted. REC specifications for Energy Meters have now been
finalized and issued. Construction and maintenance manuals for service
connections, L.T. and H.T. lines and sub-stations for the guidance of field
staff of SEBs have also been finalized and are under issue.
32.       REC is also taking interest in the SEBs' organizational capability
to deal with rural electrification matters. Whereas the SEBs' existing
organizational set up was generally adequate in the initial stages, the
increased rate of RE development soon made the SEBs themselves reconsider
this aspect of their operations and to allocate separate staff for preparing,
processing and implementing the REC-financed schemes. In January 1971, REC
addressed a circular to all SEBs to recommend the setting up of a separate
RE cell at headquarters - preferably headed by a Superintending Engineer -
and construction divisions in the field to execute the schemes sanctioned
by REC. REC has been following up on this subject.
Rural Electric Cooperatives
33.       Even before REC was established, GOI felt that, in view of the
increase in the tempo of rural electrification and the heavy responsibility
devolving on the SEBs on this account, the cooperative system of electricity
distribution in rural areas should be investigated. A team of experts from
the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association of USA visited India
and carried out a study to examine the feasibility and scope for rural
electric cooperatives in the country and identify suitable areas where such
cooperatives could be promoted as an experimental measure. On the basis
of this study, five areas, one each in five States 1/ were identified as
suitable for the pilot experiment. When REC was set up in July 1969,
preliminary arrangements for establishing the five cooperatives had been
completed and all of them came into existence in the few months which
followed. In accordance with its charter, REC readily took over the
responsibility of financing these societies. It first sanctioned in January
1/   Sircilla Taluk in Karimnagar district, Andra Pradesh; Kodinar Taluk in
Amreli district, Gujarat; Rahuri and Mula-Pravara Taluks in Adhmednagar
district, Maharashtra; Hukeri Taluk in Belgaum district, Mysore, five
blocks in Lucknow district, Uttar Pradesh.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
1970 a pre-construction loan of Rs 100,000 to each of them. Subsequently
it approved project loans totalling Rs 128.6 million which cover all the
investment cost including the take over of SEBs' existing distribution assets.
All five projects went into operation in FY 1970-71 (during which year dis-
bursements to the five societies totalled Rs 49.7 million). The five projects
are phased over a period of five years and will result, on completion, in
energization of 27,600 pumpsets and power supply to 1,530 small industries
and 729 villages.
34.       For the purpose of helping make policy decisions regarding es-
tablishing new cooperatives on a larger scale, REC set up a special commit-
tee to evaluate the role and performance of the five pilot cooperatives.
A number of evaluation studies have been carried out by the PACE Division
of REC or, under its direction, by outside consultants for comparing the
performance of the cooperatives with that of reference test areas electrified
by the SEBs. The Committee has since submitted its report and its recom-
mendations have generally been accepted by the Corporation. The main recom-
mendations of the Cormittee relate to the norms to be observed in regard to
debt-equity ratio, pattern of funding, fixation of tariff, organizational
structure, management and supervision and promotional activities, in respect
of future cooperatives. The Corporation has, at the end of February 1975,
sanctioned additionally three more cooperative projects, two in Andhra
Pradesh and one in Bihar involving a total loan assistance to these projects
of the order of Rs. 35.3 million out of a total estimated project cost of
Rs. 54.2 million for these projects, the balance being met out of equity
raised from contributions by the consumer/prospective consumer members,
concerned State Electricity Board and the State Government. Two more
cooperatives have been established, one in Orissa and one in Rajasthan.
These projects are likely to come up for the consideration of the Corporation
shortly.
Operations of REC
35.       During financial year 1974/75, REC sanctioned 340 schemes 1/.  The
table below illustrates REC's steady growth since it commenced operations
in mid-1969.
1/   This is excluding Harijan Basti Operations.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
/a                 Amount of
Financial                No. of schemes sanctioned-                    loan san-
Year       OA   OB   OC  SU  MF  MG  MH  ST  SS  PPA  MNP  Total ctioned
(Rs. millions)
1969/70       6    5    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -         11      53.9
1970/71      51   38/b  5   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -         94     632.6
1971/72      55/c 44    -   2   -   -   -   4   -   -    -    105    :645.8
1972/73     104   71    -  16   -   -   -   8   1   -    -    200         932.1
1973/74      62   53    -  38   -  14  14   6  21   -    -    208         739.8
1974/75      43   56    3  12   7  12   6   8  20   56  117   340   1,374.7
/a   OA - ordinary advanced, OB - ordinary backward, OC - Rural Electric
Cooperative, SU - Specially under developed, MF - Mini Farm, MR - Mini
Growth, MH - Mini Health, ST - Special Transmission, SS - System
Improvement, PPA - Potential Project Area, MNP - Minimum Needs Program.
/b   This is net of two schemes for Assam for which the sanction was can-
celled.
/c   This is net of one scheme of Tamil Nadu which was cancelled.
As can be seen, the bulk of the schemes sanctioned belong to "ordinary
advanced" and "ordinary backward" areas. The 340 schemes sanctioned during
financial year 1974/75 up to January 31, 1975 cover 29,061 villages, 129,098
pumpsets, 18,931 light industries, 535,554 domestic/commercial connections
and 82,249 street lights.
36.       In addition to the 340 loans for RE schemes meeting the viability
criteria, REC sanctioned 35 special loans (totalling Rs. 8.2 million)
during financial year 1974/75 for electrification of Harijan Bastis. In
comparison 38 such loans (totalling Rs. 16.7 million) during 1973/74 (state-
wise breakdown in Appendix 1-K), 27 such loans (totalling Rs. 14.7 million)
during 1972/73 and 10 loans (totalling Rs. 5.5 million) during 1971/72 were
sanctioned.



ANNEX 1
APPENDIX 1-A
Page 1
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
Board of Directors 1/
Chairman            B. Venkatappiah             2/
Director             S.S. Puri            Chief Executive, National
Cooperative Union of India
Director             N. Venkatesan        Member (Utilization) Central
Water & Power Commission
Director             R. Kapur             Director, Ministry of Energy
Director             V.N. Rajagopalan    Director, Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs.
Director             C. Laxmipathy                  3/
Director            N. Chaturvedi                   4/
Director            M.A. Chidambaram    Managing Director, Agricultural
Refinance Corporation;
1/  As on February 2, 1975.
2/   Has previously held many important positions, including Member (Agri-
culture), Planning Commission; Chairman, State Bank of India; Deputy
Governor, Reserve Bank of India; Executive Director, Reserve Bank of
India; Finance Secretary, Bombay State.
3/   Formerly Chief Engineer (Electricity), Government of Andhra Pradesh.
4/   Present positions include:  Director, Rajasthan Sakahari Kraya Virkraya
Sangh Ltd., Jaipur, Director, Rajasthan State Cooperative Bank Ltd;
Jaipur, Director, Rajasthan State Industrial Cooperative Bank Ltd; Jaipur,
Director, Jaipur Central Cooperative Bank Ltd; Jaipur, Director,
State Bank of Bikaner, Jaipur; Chairman & Director, Jaipur Zila Sahakari
Bhoomi Vikas Bank Ltd; Director, Jaipur Sahakari Kraya Vikraya Samiti
Ltd; Vice-Chairman, All-India Central Bank Development Banks Cooperative
Union Ltd; Director, National Cooperative Union of India Ltd; Chairman
& Director, Rajasthan Rajya Sahakari Bhoomi Vikas Bank Ltd; Jaipur;
Chairman, Rajasthan State Industrial Cooperative Bank Ltd; Jaipur,
Member, Hindusthan Samachar Cooperative Samiti Ltd; Delhi.



ANNiEX 1
APPENDIX 1-A
Page 2
Director             N.A. Kalyani                    1/
Managing Director   M.M.K. Wali           Whole time.
1/   Present positions include:  Managing Director, Bharat Forge Co. Limited;
Director, Copper Engineering Limited, Director, Poona Industrial Hotel
Limited; Director, Ugar Sugar Works Limited; Director, Kirloskar
Pneumatic Co. Ltd., Director, Industrial Finance Corporation of India;
Director, Hiremath Chemicals (P) Ltd.



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
lBADOF DIRECT7R
_ CHAIRMAN     l
ITECHNICAL DIRECTORIl                                             | AAING DIRECTOR
ITechnical Divisionl I                                                            Secretary &                        M
Senior Chief                   A
[ Chief  |  | xef                               | f Chief ]  r   |  Ch0ief\  Chief|
+ ~~~~~~~~~ni neerl                                         (PC        (C 2< 
ox '0~                                                      0 C"  w .1 
I'C R  E  W          ,         clf-           IS       '. I         K     I         '        I     
0.                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'  '4."
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'
0   Po                                           It~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~ 0  0
0                                    .0   P.~~                            ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CI  CD'
* Positions currently vacant.                          
Secretary was concurrently Head of PACE Division until January 1975.  Since January 1975 when the incumbent was          r 
appointed senior Chief, he has been holding additional charge of PACE Division's Chief pending the appointment            x
of a whole time Chief for the Division.                                                                                   H
H Officer on Special Duty.                                                                                                   H
Financial Adviser & Chief Accounts Officer. 
Source: REC - March 1975



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART (PACE DIVISION)
Chief (PACE)A/ 
Project Appraisal, Coordination &
Evaluation Division
Specialists                                   Project        Coordination      Ev:luation
Appraisal
Management    Economics &    Small          Agricultural    Ground
Statistics      Industry         Credit       Water
1/  Project Appraisal, Coordination and Evaluation.
Rl(D
Source: REC, February 1975
H-



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART - FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS DIVISION
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer
Deputy Financial Adviser |ty Financial   ser                                              Deputy Financial Adviser]
Loan    Bills    Commer l    Internal                Cooperative    Performance             Pre-sanction       Cost Verification
Accounts       Audit              Accounts           Audit                Appraisal
Source:  REG, February 1975
(D 
.,,                                                                                     X F'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 1
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Directives from GOI to REC
No. EL-II-26(21)/68
Government of India
Ministry of Irrigation and Power
New Delhi, the July 26, 1969
To
The Rural Electrification Corporation Private Limited, New Delhi.
Dear Sirs,
The President is pleased to issue the following directives under Article
126 of the Articles of Association of Rural Electrification Corporation with
regard to the conduct of business of the Company:
(1) It shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation to establish sound policies and procedures
for the consideration, approval, and implementation of Rural
Electrification Schemes which come up for assistance from
the Corporation.
(2) In formulating such policies and procedures, the Corporation
will develop and apply criteria for, and establish priorities
regarding, the choice of schemes on the basis of consideration
of economic viability of the schemes. Such criteria and
priorities will be developed prior to the commencement of
lending operations and will be based on suitable economic
and financial standards. The Corporation will lay down
appropriate stipulations in regard to the technical, economic,
financial and managerial soundness of each scheme, as a
condition of providing financial assistance for the scheme.
(3) In choosing the projects for which loans may be provided
to the State Electricity Boards:
(a) A 'project approach' will be generally adopted so that
extension of electricity along with other investments
and inputs results in increased agricultural production
and reasonable returns on agricultural investments.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 2
(b)  Economic viabilitv shall be understood to entail the
prospect of sufficient revenue from sales of electricity
to rural users to cover (i) operating costs and (ii) an
appropriate return on investments provided that in
selected categories of cases, e.g., economically backward
areas with future agricultural potential, requirement
(ii) may be waived for a short initial period not
exceeding five years.
(c)  hlle loans advanced should carry such terms as may be
comparable to the terms advanced by the Government of
India to public sector financing institutions.
(d) The willingness of farmers to invest their own resources
in rural electrification should be a factor in consider-
ation of schiemes to be financed.
(4) The Corporation sliould support efforts of the State Electricity
Boards to raise resources in the form of debentures from the
rural areas. In so far as the effective rate of interest paid
by State Electricity Boards to cultivators may be highier than
that on loans from the Corporation, the Corporation may accept
a lower rate of interest on its special corporate debentures
so that the overall rate of interest on debentures paid by
StateI Electricity Boards is comparable with the interest paid
by them on loans from the Corporation.
(5)  The C.orporation may use its finances to make loans to Rural
Electric Coopcratives for construction costs plus operation
and maintenance costs unltil the schemes become self-supporting.
Five Pilot cooper.tives are now being developed and it is
expected that others will be organized on similar lines.  The
Corporiation will consider providing loans on suitable terms
to these cooperatives withi a view to encouraging the coop-
erative type of organization for distribution of electricity
in rural areas.
(6) The Corporation will help State Electricity Boards and
Cooperatives in identifying likely areas for projects, in
preparing project proposals, and in improving the quality of
tlleir project appraisal and presentation.
(7) In seeking appropriate security or guarantees for its loans
to State Electricity Boards, tne Corporation shall ensure
tihat the ability of thie Boards to raise loans from the State
Govermments, the Life Insurance Corporation of India, and
other substantial sources is not jeopardised tlhereby.



ANTNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 3
(8) The initial principal of the Corporation and all other funds
received by the Corporation will be invested in Government
of India securities to the extent not required for current
operations.
These directives shall be given immediate effect to by the Directors of the
Company. Kindly acknowledge receipt.
Yours faithfully,
Sd/- C. Chakraburti,
Deputy Secretary to the Govt. of India
for and on behalf of the President of India.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 4
Further Directives from GOI TO REC
No. 48(13)/74-P.E.
Government of India
Ministry of Irrigation and Power
New Delhi, September 9, 1974
To     : The Chairman, Rural Electrification Corporation Limited, New Delhi
Subject: Directives under Article 126 of the Articles of Association
of the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited.
Dear Sir,
I am directed to refer to this Ministry's letter No. EL-II-26(21)/68,
dated July 26, 1969, on the above subject and to say that the President
is pleased to issue the following further directives under Article 126 of
the Articles of Association of the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
with respect to the conduct of its business in so far as it relates to rural
electrification under the National Program of Minimum Needs:-
(i) It shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation to establish sound and systematic
policies and procedures for extending financial assis-
tances to the State Electricity Boards (or in the absence
of a State Electricity Board in a State/Union Territory,
to the State Governments/Union Territory, to the State
Governments/Union Terriroty Administrations) for formulat-
ing, appraising, financing and monitoring the rural
electrification schemes under the Minimum Needs Program.
(ii) The Corporation shall sanction schemes under this
program only in such areas as are broadly identified
for this purpose.
(iii) In selecting and sanctioning schemes under this program,
the Corporation shall follow a project and production
oriented approach as indicated in terms of the directives
issued on 26th July, 1969. The Corporation shall also
lay down and enforce appropriate stipulatlons in regard
to the technical, developmental, economic, financial and
managerial soundness of each scheme.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 5
(iv) While selecting projects for which financial assistance
may be provided under this program, the Corporation
shall take steps to ensure that -
(a)  the projects do have a certain minimum development
content so that extension of electricity, along with
other investments and inputs, leads to optimum ex-
ploitation of the development potential of the
areas covered and that the projects result in the extension
of the benefits of electricity to as large a rural
population as possible; and
(b) the projects lay due emphasis on the energization of
irrigation pumpsets, agro-industries and other rural
industries as well as on the supply of power to
growth centres, primary health centres and other
similar categories which are important for develop-
ment, such as marketing or educational centres.
(v)  In extending financial assistance to the State Electricity
Boards/State Governments/Union Territory Administrations
as the case may be, the Corporation shall follow such
terms and conditions as may be decided by the Central
Government from time to time.
(vi)  While appraising the viability of the projects, the Cor-
poration may have regard to the fact that in the initial
stages the returns may fall short of the normal criteria
of financial viability, but it will have to be ensured
that the projects would ultimately prove to be eco-
nomically viable as a result of extension of irrigation
facilities, horticultural and other development and rural
industrialization, etc.
(vii)  The Corporation shall guide and assist the State Electri-
city Boards/State Governments/Union Territory Adminis-
trations in the formulation of production oriented rural
electrification projects within the identified MNP areas
in such a manner as to ensure -
Firstly  : that the requisite population coverage is
secured;
Secondly:   that the assumptions underlying eventual
viability are realistic and feasible; and
Thirdly :   that the project itself is appropriately
phased with reference to the district or
other area concerned.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-E
Page 6
2.        These directives shall be given immediate effect by the Directors
of the Company.
Yours faithfully,
Sd/-
(R. Kapur)
Director



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
REC Loans   Rates of Interest, Terms of Repayment_ Minimum Returns Required on aoans Sanctioned to March 31  1974
Category & Area/Type            Code         Period          Interest Rate - l/         Terms of Repayment - 2/           Minimum Return - 3/
of Loan                          %                                           for Project                         Factors for Classification
Ordinary - advanced             OA           20 years        1st 10 years    6          5 years grace, then               2% in 5th year                       Factors taken into account in deciding
11 - 15  "       7         repayment over 15 years           3%% in 10th year                    classification of given area are:
16 - 20  "       8                                                                                (i)  Level of economic development as
Or                                                                                                   represented by per capita income
11 - 15  '       6         if repayment in 15 years                                                    or per acre yield (in the project
area).
Ordiniry - backwnrd             OB           25 years        1st 10 yeats    5          5 years grace, then               t% in 5th year                      (ii)  (a)  Irrigation facilities - existing
11 - 15  i       5N        repayment over 20 years           2% in 10th year                                 and potential.
16 - 20  "       7                                           3t% in 15th year                          (b)  Availability of underground water
21 - 25  "       8                                                                                           resources,
or                                                                                                  (c)  Intensity of cropping as represented
16 - 20  "       6         if repAyrmktt in 20 Yeats                                                         by double ayultiple cropped areas.
41                                                                         (iii)  Intensity of rainfall and extent of dry
Ordinaty - cooperatives         OC           30 years        lit 10 years    4-          5 yesrs grate, then              No specific criteria                      farming.
11 - 15  "       5         tpaymient over 25 yeat s          but in assessing                    (iv)  Susceptibility of drought or floods.
16 - 20  "       5~                                          viability, the minimum               (v)  Availability of infrastructure other
21 - 25  "       7                                           standards applicable                      than electricity i.e. institutional
26 - 30  "       8                                           to backward areas are                     arrangements for provision of credit,
kept in view.                             other inputs, marketing etc.
(vi)  The geographical situation as indicated
Specially undetdevel-           SU           30 years       ist 10 years    4           5 yeats grate, then t                in 10th year                           by hazards to the extension of
oped hill, deg6rt,                                           11 - 15  "       5         repayment ove5  25 years          2% in 15th year                           electricity on a/c of terrain, location,etc.
tribal -ateas, etc.                                         16 - 20  "        S                                           3k% in 20th year                  (vii)  Degree of electrification already achieved.
21 - 25           7                                                                           (viii)  Cost of extension of electricity as
26-i0"            8                                                                                    indicated by cost for energization per
Special Transiitisbion          ST           12 years       I - 12 years 5/ 7           2 years grace, then                                                         pumpset.
repayment over 10 years
System Ixdprovement             SS           8 years         1 - 8 yeais      7         2 years grace, thet               337% in 5th year
repayment over 6 years
J The interest rates shown are net of the rebate of k7. allowed for prompt payment.
2/  Repayment of both principal and interest, based on equated annual installments:  In view of the complicated calculations involved, repayment is now by equal installments of
principal.  In all cases the State Governments are required to furnish full and unconditional guarantees in respect of the payment of interest and repayment of principal by
the State Electricity Board/Cooperatives.
3/  Minimum return means the ratio which operating revenues, after providing for operating expenses (including depreciation) and interest, bear to the total investment.                                       x
41  REC may forego interest for first 5 years provided Society credits a sum equivalent to the interest, to a special fund to be used in accordance with rules approved                                      x
by the REC.  The practical difficulty arises in so far as the schemes would not generate cash sufficient to meet the early year's interest.                                                              e
5/  Reduced to 10 years for "AA" states, i.e. those states which are above the all-India level of village electrification (as opposed to "AB" states) i.e. those below the
All India level.



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATTON PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation
REC Leans - Bates of Interest, ferms of fepapomot. Minimum fetunn  Required on Lan-o Sanctioned from April 1. 1974
1/                                   2/                            3/
Category & Area/Type              Code          Period         lorereut Ratr  i       Z        Termo of Repayment -              Minimuc  Return -                            Facto  for Clossification
of Loon                                                                            for Prolect
Ordianay - Advanced                 OA          20 years       1ot 5 years            7       5 yearn gramc, then               (2Z) in 5tI  year                   Fartrrn taken into acuount in deriding
6- 10  "               7-3/4   erpayc.-  mer 15 yearn.            Brek-even in 7th year                 rlassificarinof iurc area arae
11 -  5  "              8                                          347 in 15th year
16 -20  "               9                                                                                (i)  level of economic deoelopment an
or                                                                                                          pre sented by per capita incone er
11 - 15  "              7-3/4   if repayment in 15 years                                                      per acre yield (in the project area).
(ii)  (a) Irrigation facilcties, existing
Ordinary - Backward                OB           25 years       Ist 5 years            6-'      5 yearn grace, then               (347) in 5th year                               and potential.
6 - 10  '              7        repaymest over 20 yearn           Break-een in 10th year                      (b) Availability of gr-o-d water
It - 15  "              7                                          37. in 20th year                                reaources.
16   20                                                                                                        (c) Intensity of crupping as
21 -25  a               9                                                                                          represented by doable aultipled
or                                                                                                               cropped area.
16 - 20  "              74       if repayment in 20 years                                              (iii)  Intensity of rainfall and extent of
dry faring.
Ordinary - Cooperati-s              OC          30 years       1st 5 years            -        5 years grace, then                                                    (in)  Susreptibility of drought or floeds.
6 - 10  "              4        repayeart aver 25 years                                                 (v)  A-ailability of infr-structure
11 -15  "               5                                                                                       ther than electricity i.e.
16 -Z                  51                                                                                    inctirotianal arrangementn  fur
21 -25                  7                                                                                     provliion of credit,other inputs,
26 -30  C               8                                                                                     aarketing etc.
(vi)  The gengraphical aitoatien as
Specially under-devel-              SU          30 years       let 5 years            5-3/4   5 years grace, thee                (67) in 5th year                           indiated bhy hacard. to the aeteesion
oped hill, desert,                                             6 - 10                 6        repaymkent suer 25 years          Break-even in 15th year                    of electricity en */r of terrain,
tribal areas, etc.                                           11 - 15  "               64                                         347, in 25th year                          location, etc.
16 -20                  7                                                                              (vii)  Degree af electrification already
21 -25                                                                                                        achieved.
26- 30                  9                                                                             (wiii)  Cast of extansis n of electricity as
Or                                                                                                          indicated by cost for -anrgizati.n
21 - 25                 7        if repayMst in 25 years                                                      p-r pumpet.
Mininsa  Needs Pregame              MNp         30 years       let 10 years           5-3/4   5 years grace, than                (6%) in 7th year for
11 - 20    '            6        repayecet over 25 years            tribal,hill and desert
21 - 30                 7                                           ared.  (6%) in 5th year
for ether areas.
Brdak-evan in 15th year
34! in 25th year
Special Tranasission             ST/AB          12 years       lst 6 years            74       2 years grace, then               Break-even in 7th year
7 - 12                 8        repaymeof evr 10 years
ST/RAA        10 years       let 5 years             74       2 years grace, then               Break-even in 5th year
6 - 10  "              8        repayemet ever 8 years
System  IsproveDaent               SS           8 years        let 4 years            74       1st year grace, thee              $471 in 5th year
5 - 8   "                       repayment ever 7 yaces
Advance Loans - For
Patenrial Prs3ect Area             AL/PPA       2 years       I - 2 yeers             74                                          6/
Mini Growth  7/                    MG
Mini Health  7/                    MB
Mini Industries 7/                 Ml
Mini Farm                          MP          10 years        1-10 years             7-3/4   2 yearn grace, then
repayment over 8 yearn             8/
1V The interest rates shown are net of the rebate of 47 allowed fer pronpt payment.
i/  Repayment of both principal and interest, based on equeted annual installmenta.  In view of the cse.plieatcd calcolations involved, repayment is sew by equal installmente
of prinnipal. In all cases the SOate Ceverneants are required to furnish fell and unconditional guarastees ic respect of the payment of interest and repayment of principal
by the State Electricity Board/Cooperatives.                                                                                                                                                               tt
3/  Minirsa  return means the ratio which operating revenues, after pro-iding for operating e-pe.sc-  (including depreciation) and interest, bear te the total in-entoent.                                      o
Figures bet-ecn brackets indicate negative returns                                                                                                                                                         upo
4/  ST pro3ects in "AVe states, i.e.  states at or below the all India level of rural electrificatioa                                                                                                           n
5/  ST proecJts in "AA" states, i-e  states at  r abo5v thretur ll ins le  of rae   1-trifiia tien.
/ 04/PeA ca4eeps era anpected op hqye a -uin4ism "goo.." a-t,ssr  of &Q%r-4n theigd pea..t
7/  In mini projects (MG, MU, MI), the lean for the distribution component is sebject to the s-am  terms and conditione as applicable Cs OB/SU  -ategories schemen while
the loan fon the trassmiesion neoqeenert is subject tI the sa-a tenrm and conditions as applicable te ir category sche,es.
8/  MF anhenna are expe-ted to hava a  inimmem "g-roso" returo  of 107 at the end of the second year.
Sourse: REC, February 1975



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-H
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
PHYSICAL TARErS ENVISAGED UNDER THE REC-FINANCED
SCHEMES SANCTIONED DURING FY 1973/74,STATEWISE
No. of                             Amount
Industries   No. of      No. of   of Loan
No.  of   No. of    No. of    Including   Dom./Comml.   Street  Sanctioned
State           Schemes   Villages   Pumpsets   Agro-Ind.   Connections   Lights  (Rs million)
Andhra Pradesh    24         825      5,587        903         57,774    15,411       66.4
Assam              6         615        229        733         21,928     2,736       29.5
Bihar             13       1,287     10,367      1,477         33,662     2,209       77.2
Gujarat            4         141      2,005        214         16,316     5,114        9.1
Haryana            5         251      4,110        154          3,800     2,165       13.4
Himachal Pradesh   5       1,882        402        422         34,514       280       24.6
Jaamnu & Kashmir   15      1,372        144      1,353         35,755        -        54.5
Kerala             4         116      2,280        346         16,132     4,250       13.9
Madhya Pradesh    33       1,442     19,712      1,838         34,515    12,645       90.8
Maharashtra       10         528      5,238        529         23,120     9,965       34.1
Karnataka          6         641      2,345        236         29,239     5,596       21.1
Meghalaya          1          31         12         22            916        97        2.3
Orissa            14         972      8,409      1,377         34,650     5,412       47.4
Punjab             6         994      6,819      1,496         41,610     3,600       30.1
Rajasthan         15         709     12,507      1,409         20,759     4,301       60.9
Tamil Nadu        17         975      8,635        637         34,077     2,708       36.1
Uttar Pradesh     20       1,921      9,197      2,683         49,782    14,939       82.3
West Bengal       10         914      2,810        810         48,571        86       46.1
Total          208      15,616    100,808     16,639        536,309    91,514      739.8
Harijan Bastis    38       3,864        -          -              -      18,264       16.8
GRAND TOTAL      246      19,480    100,808     16,639        536,309   109,778      756.6
Source: REC, February 1975 (,no. of domestic commercial connections and No. of street
lights were corrected by the Association staff)



Annex I
INDTA                                  Appendix l-I
RURAL rL7CTRIFICATION PROJCCT
CONNECTED LOAD FOR RE SCH4,MFS SANCTION"D BY RV.C DURING FY 1973/74
STATE7'ISI/
(In kw)
State                   Agricultural         Indus tries    Domestic &      Street.      Total
pumpsets            including       Commercial     light
Agro-Inds.
Andhra Pradesh          28170               7753            22654            481         59058
Assam                    2550              13253            10319            110         26232
Bihar                   39402              11697            10054             87        61240
GuJarat                 17585               3310             3286            161        24342
Haryana                 17030               1307              790             87         19214
Himachal Pradesh         3443               5876            11907             17        21243
Jammu & Kashmir          2263               9635            17373             70         29341
K-rala                   9222               3044             8827            170        21263
Madhya Pradesh          74189              14231            10790            522         99732
Maharashtra             15813               3838             4722            271        24644
Karnataka                8578               1853             8414            140         18985
Orissa                  18349              10385             9876            216        38826
Punjab                  39329              15590            16287            144        71350
Rajasthan               77607              14231             6295            217        98350
Tamil Nadu              29270               4161            15377            294        49102
Uttar Pradesh           53546              20463            20240            534        94783
West Bengal             12270               6595            17312             57         36234
Meghalaya                  90                164              458              4           716
Total (All-India)      448706             147386           194981           3582       794655
(56.46%)           (18.55%)         (24.54%)        (0.45%)    (100.0%)
Source: REC's annual report, PY 1973/74.
j/ This exclu(nes Harijan Bastis activities.



I N D I A                 AbAendix 1-J
RURAL ELECTA4IFICAT-I0N PROJECT
CUMULATIVE PHYSICAL TARGETS EWVISAGED UNDER TEE REC
FINANCED SCHEME UPTOFY_J1973/74,. STATEWIEt.
Z.    .        of...  .....  . 
State            SchemesNo.of  No. of  No. of    o.  of   No. of   Amount of
villa- pumpseti/Indus-   domesticVstreet    loanssanc-
ges.            tries    comml.   lights    tioned
includ-   Connec-           (Rs. Million)
ing  gm-tions.
ing Agro-
nd.
Andhra Pradesh       50    2560    42766    3242    175160    3*454        240.1C
Assam                12    115"       566    2467     59134    19529,       72.70
Bihar                43    4832    53789    S364      99232      3011      250,.30
Gujarat              28    1230    34177    2372    *2585       36149      123.52
Haryana              24    1365    23805    2295       33367     6405       91.58
Himachal Pradesh    14    378        1035    1394     99714      1005       63.93
Jammu&Kashmir        22    2014       336    2537     55533       -        84.47
Kerala               16     451      8436    1457     816o0   18334        71.25
Karnataka            29    1972    21377    1i15    103735    36210        133.85
Madhya Pradesh       73    3354    84263    5009    122601    25949       275.61
Maharashtra          44    3609    52816    5811    116487    46571       265.79
Meghalaya             2      63        45     110      2232      1015        4.72
Orissa               40    3230    33296   Soo       96759-   18843       165.70
Punjab               30    3293    38659    7321    163191       7656     157.40
Rajasthan            44    2443    49541    539*      74102    15704      214.48
Tamil Nadu           37    3120    44784    1322    113398    16819       137.30
Uttar Pradesh        69    8046    44544    15227   179936    33210       392.77
West Bengal          41    6425    24148    17567   344333         86     260.52
TOTAL:-         618   52990   558383    89436  2003522   324950    3006.51
Harijan Bastis:      75    8617      -        -       -         49523       36.73
GRAND TOTAL:-       693   61607   5583S3   89436   2003522   374473    3043.24
Source: REC



Annex 1
Appendix 1-K
I N D I A
Rural Electrification Project
RE and Harijan Basti Loans Sanctioned by REC in FY 1973/74, Statewise
(Crores of Rupees)
REMI Schemes        Harijan Basti Loans             Total.
State                    No.   Amount           No.       Amount         No.      Amount
Andhra Pradesh                24     6.64           13          0.10         37         6.74
Assam                          6     2.95            -           -            6         2.95
Bihar                         13     7.72            _           -           13         7.72
Gujarat                       4      0.91            1          0.05          5         0.96
Haryana                        5     1.34            4          0.20          9         1.54
Himachal Pradesh               5     2.46             -          -            5         2.46
Jammu  & Kashmir              15     5.45            -           -           15         5.45
Kerala                         4     1.39            1          0.01          5         1.40
Madhya Pradesh                33     9.08            3          0.31         36         9.39
M4aharashtra                  10     3.41            7          0.62         17        4.03
Karnataka                      6     2.11            2          0.06          8         2.17
Meghalaya                      1     0.23            -           -            1         0.23
Orissa                        14     4.74            2          0.14         16        4.88
Punjab                         6     3.01             2         0.15          8         3.16
Rajasthan                     15     6.09            -           -           15         6.09
Tamil Nadu                    17     3.61            1          0.02         18        3.63
Uttar Pradesh                 20     8.23            -           -           20         8.23
West Bengal                   10     4.61             2         0.02         12         4.63
TOTAL          208    73.98            38         1.68         246       75.66
Source:  REC's fifth annual report, 1973/74.



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Rural Electrification Development Envisaged in the Draft Fifth Plan
Pump Energization Program                           Village Electrification Program
Jrrigation      Addiitional    Irrigation        Total       Electrified    Additional         Total
pumps ener-    pumps to        pumps ener-       Census      -illages as    villages to       electried
gized as        be ener-       gized as on       villages   on 3-31-74      be elec-         villages
on 3-31-74      gized          3-31-79                                      trified           as on
during V                                                    during V         3-31-79
plan                                                        plan
MLX P. Normal
Andhra Pradesh       253,000        97,070          350,000           27,084      10,750         481    5,300      16,531
Assam                    150         9,540            9,690          20,565          830       2,800      510       4,140
Bihar                100,500        28,620          129,120          67,665        9,600       7,500    1,542      18,642
Gujarat              105,000        15,500          120,500           18,584       5,850         -      1,030       6,880
Haryana              135,000        51,500          186,500            6,669       6,669         -         -        6,669
Himachal Pradesh         800           990            1,790           13,060       4,000         800      130       4,930
Jammu Kashmir            450           -                450            6,559         930       1,000      -         1,930
Karnataka            190,000        59,880          249,880           26,377      12,200         736    3,211      16,147
Kerala                38,000        30,000           68,000            1,573       1,423         -        150       1,573
Madhya Pradesh       130,000        38,160          168,160           70,414      10,700       6,948    2,055      19,703
Maharashtra          315,000        64,320          379,320           35,851      16,000         -      3,110      19,110
Manipur                  -             -                -             1,866          210         650      -           860
Meghalaya                -             -                              4,407           80       1,000      -         1,080
Nagaland                   2           -                  2              814         100         200      -           300
Orissa                 2,000        47,240           49,240          46,466        5,350       2,312    2,314       9,976
Punjab               125,000        39,160          164,160           11,947       7,100         -      2,132       9,232
Rajasthan             75,000        28,620          103,620          32,241        5,200       2,000    1,542       8,742
Tamil Nadu           715,000       143,000          858,ooo           14,124      14,124         -        -        14,124
Tripura                   35           -                 35           4,932          110       1,000      -         1,100
Uttar Pradesh        235,000       114,480          349,480          112,624      28,390       5,250    6,166      39,806
West Bengal            2,000        43,000           45,000           38 454       7,500       3 800    2 860      14 160
Sub-Total -States 2 421X937                      3f110                                       34       3,23,0127   5 2,_26
Union Territories     13,063         3,720           16,783            4,602       1,034          74      497       1,605
R.E.C.                   -         763,200          763,200              -           -           -     41,108     41,108
1/                                                          1 
Total-all India    2,435,000     1,578,000        4,013,000         566,878      148,150 -    36,551   73,657    258,358
h/ Anticipated.
Source: REC, April 1973



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
1/
Estimated Association Disbursements by Half-year Periods, Re2endipx n the Number of Beneficiaries
(US$ million)
1976                     1977                      1978                    1979
Jan. 1 -    July 1      Jan. 1 -    July 1 -    Jan. 1 -    July 1 -    Jan. 1 -    July 1-
Beneficiaries              June 30     Dec. 31     June 30      Dec. 31     June 30      Dec. 31      June 30     Dec. 31
Six States by Half-year
periods          1.0          7.0         8.o         13.0         8.0         10.0          6.o         4.0
ft  "t        Cumulative         1.0          8.o        16.0         29.0         37.0        47.0         53.0        57.0
Ten States  by Half-year
periods          1.0          7.5        12.0         20.0        16.5
Cumulative         1.0          8.5        20.5         40.5        57.0
Eleven States by Half-year
periods       1.0          9.0        13.5         23.0        10.5
Cumulative      1.0         10.0        23.5         46.5        57.0
/ Disbursement estimates allow for time required to prepare bid documentation, solicit bids, evaluate bids,
place orders. Additionally, a period of three months allowed for the preparation and submission of
withdrawal applications. The estimated disbursements are based on the size of bid package agreed for
each SEB, initial downpayments of 10% against each order, and estimated phasing of deliveries.
2/ Assam, Karnataka, Kerala, MadWya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu.
i   Same as in 2/ plus Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Gujarat.
Same as in  / plus Uttar Pradesh.



ANN EX 4
Page 1
INDIA
RTURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
Economic Justification of REC's Rural Electrification Program
1.        Summary.  It is not possible to quantify fully and accurately the
economic benefits of REC-financed rural electrification programs because of
the large nuimber of projects involved and the difficulty in measuring the
socio-economic benefits of village electrification. However, there Is suf-
ficient evidence from the results of several independent exercises that,
subject to availability of power at bulk supply level, REC's programs are,
in general, an excellent proposition for India. In summary:
(i) least-cost comparison of diesel versus electricity pumping
shows an advantage to the latter in the average REC-financed
rural electrification 2roject. This holds even if the full-cost
of the project--other than its portion specific to village
electrification-is charged to well electrification and if the
conservative assumption is made that bulk power supply is
based on thermal generation, which is more costly than
hydro. In this case the equalizing discount rate between
the two streams of costs is about 11%. Shadow pricing foreign
exchange boosts the equalizing discount rate to 14%. These
results indicate that the diesel alternative should generally
be ruled out (paras 2 through 8).
(ii) minor irrigation investments based on electric pumping are
economically justified in the average REC-financed project.
This also holds if the fulll cost of the project--other than
its portion specific to village electrification--is charged
to well electrification. In this case, the present worth 1/
of the incremental agricultural production attributable to
electric pumping net of all capital and operating costs
(adjusted for taxes) incurred by the farmers and the SEBs
is estimated to average Rs 18,210 per well. Rates of return
on the same basis are estimated to average about 27% (paras
9 through t1).
(iii)  the incremental village electrification component of the
average REEC-financed project is economically justified.  The
socio-economic benefits of village electrification are not
1/   Discounting at an annual rate of 12%.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
fully measurable. A conservative estimate is obtained
by working out the benefits of small industry and adding
the financial revenues from domestic/commercial consumers.
This is compared to the associated incremental capital
and operational costs, net of taxes, incurred (i) by the
SEBs to tap distribution networks already justified by
agricultural benefits; and (ii) by small industry consumers
to utilize electricity supplies. Rates of return on this
basis are estimated to average about 8.1%. This is
considered satisfactory in view of the fact that the
estimate of benefits is conservative (paras 12 and 13).
(iv) the average REC-financed project is economically justified.
This actually follows directly from propositions (i), (ii)
and (iii) above which show that both the well and village
components are justified. The net present worth 1/ of bene-
fits and costs, as defined above, is estimated to average
about Rs 10 million per project. Rates of return on the
same basis are estimated to average about 23.4% (para 14).
Rates of return computed on three specific REC projects
in the OA, OB, SU categories, are about 19-20% (para 15).
As explained above these results are conservative since
they do not take into account the full socio-economic
benefits of village electrification.
(v) estimated returns on minor irrigation investment in IDA
Appraisal Reports for agricultural credits to India have
generally been high, lying mostly in the range 15-25%.
(vi) data available in a 1967 study on the impact of rural
electrification carried out by the National Council for
Applied Economic Research shows benefit/cost ratios of
about 2.5, equivalent to returns on investment of 25-30%.
Least-Cost Comparison Between Electricity
and Diesel Pumping for Minor Irrigation
2.        There are two means of energizing agricultural pumpsets: (i) by
extending electricity transmission and distribution facilities from the main
power grid into rural areas and correspondingly reinforcing power generation
capacity; or (ii) by installing isolated diesel engines. Electrification
requires a larger initial capital investment while dieselization is cost-
lier in operation and maintenance. In order to determine the least cost
alternative the present worth of the two cost streams were calculated and
1/ Discounting at an annual rate of 12%.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
compared. The equalizing discount rate of the two cost streams was also
calculated. This is the rate of return on the additional investment incurred
in the electricity alternative, The sensitivity of the result was tested
against variations in the basic parameters. The conclusion is that there is
a decided advantage for electrilfication.
Basic Case
3.        The typical project considered here is one with 5 HP pumps lifting
500 acre-inches of water annually from a water table 30 ft below ground level.
This can meet the water requirement for multiple cropping patterns on 10 acres.
The number of wells in the projlect area is that normally encountered in a
typical REC financed project. Diesel pumpsets of the Kirloskar AVI type
(market share 80%) require an initial investment - net of taxes and duties -
of Rs 5,920 1/ including accessories, transport, engine room, etc., and are
assumed to have a physical life of 10 years. This compares with an invest-
ment of Rs 4,335 2/, and a phyEsical life of 15 years for a Cromption electric
pumpset (market share 60%). Both pumpsets are assumed to operate 1,000 hours
per annum. Annual operating arnd maintenance expenses are Rs 860 for the
diesel pumpset against Rs 280 for the electric pumpset. Diesel engines are
assumed to consume 1.1 liter per hour of diesel oil (this is higher than the
theoretical consumption of 0.96 liter per hour as per manufacturers' speci-
fication for a well tuned engirne but lower than the 1.20-1.30 liter per hour
consumption which is reported under field conditions).  The cost of diesel
oil is taken as Rs .6 per liter. 3/
4.        Capital investment inL primary and secondary distribution, i.e.
from 33 kv/11 kv substation texminals, is about Rs 1,180 per kilowatt of
connected load when averaged over minor irrigation and village loads.
However, the investment for well electrification alone is about Rs 1,500
per kilowatt connected, or Rs 5,650 per 5 HP well (3.7 kw). Operation
and maintenance expenses of distribution networks are taken as 3% of in-
vestment or Rs 165 per well.
5.        Transmission and genetration facilities also have to be reinforced.
For assessing the corresponding cost, generation capital cost was conservatively
1/ See attached Appendix 4-A.
2/ See attached Appendix 4-B.
3/   India is importer of this fuel at a CIF price of approximately US$90
per metric ton. This is equivalent to Rs .67 per liter at an exchange
rate of Rs 8 to the dollar. With an additional cost of Rs .03 per
liter for inland transportation over 300 km the total cost of diesel
oil would be Rs .7 per liter, net of taxes and duties. The con-
servative level of Rs .6 per liter adopted here is meant to reflect
the possibility of a decline in the prices - in relative terms - of
oil products on the world market.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
based on thermal capacity, i.e. coal-fired thermal units costing 2,400 Rs/kw,
a coincidence factor of 0.2 (irrigation pumping mostly occurs early in the
morning, non simultaneously with system peak 1/), a reserve generating
capacity margin of 25% and overall physical line losses (transmission +
distribution) of 20%; transmission capital cost was assumed to be 960 Rs/kw
with a coincidence factor of 0.2; annual operation and maintenance costs
were taken as 2% and 1% of investment for generation and transmission
respectively and the cost of coal taken as 60 Rs per ton at the mine plus
20 Rs per ton for transportation to power stations 500 km away. 2/
6.        The results of the calculation in this basic case are (see
Appendix 4-C):
Present worth of dieselization costs   =  Rs 21,560 per well.
Present worth of electrification costs = Rs 22,220 per well.
Equalizing discount rate - 11.0%
7.        Sensitivity to Shadow Pricing of Foreign Exchange.  A 50% premium
on foreign exchange increases (i) the cost of diesel oil as India imports
this fuel and (ii) the cost of power transmitting/generating equipment which
has a foreign content of about 30%. The new equalizing discount rate is
14.0% (see Appendix 4-D). Shadow pricing foreign exchange is thus shown to
reinforce the advantage to electrification.
8.        Sensitivity to Distribution Capital Cost.  The estimated distribution
network capital cost of Rs 5,650 per 5 HP well is an average figure applying
to a typical REC-financed project. However, conditions vary widely from
State to State depending on the load density and the balance between the
village electrification and the well electrification components. According
to Appendix 4-D, the maximum distribution network capital cost per 5 HP well
which would enable the electricity alternative to compete with diesel at
a discount rate of 12% is about Rs 7,100 when shadow pricing foreign exchange.
However this is conservative since (i) hydro power is cheaper than thermal
power; and (ii) even in predominantly power systems, agricultural loads can
be staggered so as to reduce their contribution to system peak requirements
without reducing energy consumption. Altogether, electricity can generally
compete with diesel with a distribution network capital cost up to about
Rs 10,000. This is above the figures observed in most areas. It is still
1/   In average one kilowatt of minor irrigation connected load is assumed
to be responsible for two hundred watts of load at the time of system
peak load.
2/   It is worth noting that the economic cost at 11 kv busbars of one
kilowatt hour of thermal origin for consumption by irrigation pumpsets
resulting from the above assumptions is Rs 0.23 for a cost of capital
of 12%. This is two to three times higher than the financial cost
of power at the same voltages for most SEBs.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
conceivable that diesel be the least-cost alternative, particularly when wells
are too scattered or located too far away from the main transmission lines,
but the chances are that the financial criteria used by REC will screen out
such cases.
Justification of the Minor Irrigation Component
in a Typical REC-financed Project
9.        The table below shows the main parameters of a typical 1/ REC-
financed sub-project covering 110 villages and costing about Rs 5.8 million:
No. of                         Load per      No. Hours of
Consumer Category   Connections    Connected Load  Connection   Use in 5th Year
(kw)          (kw)
Electric Wells           570        2736      (56%)      4.8            1,000
Industries               100         980      (20%)      9.8            1,300
Domestic + Com-
mercial               2900        1160      (24%)      0.4            1,000
Street Lights            450          21      (.4%)                     3,500
Total             4020         4897    (100%)
10.       The average investment per electric pumpset made by the farmer
is estimated at Rs 10,700 whereas the value of the resulting increment in
agricultural production is estimated at Rs 7,000 per annum. (This is before
power charges but is net of other operational expenses incurred by the farm-
er.) This corresponds with data used for the Association's Agricultural
Credits to India and with information obtained from REC. Similarly, on the
basis of sample surveys made by REC appraisal teams, the average industrial
user is assumed to invest Rs 12,000 and to produce an output with a net
value of Rs 6,000 per annum before power charges. Renewal investment in
year 15 is assumed at Rs 4,400 for the farmer and Rs 6,000 for the small
industry. Operation and maintenance expenditure incurred by the State Elec-
tricity Boards is estimated by REC at 3% p.a. of the investment in distribu-
tion facilities. Based on an opportunity cost of capital of 12%, the eco-
nomic cost of bulk power supply for minor irrigation from thermal origin
is estimated at 20 paise/kwh. To this about 3 paise/kwh was added to take
into account the physical losses in distribution networks, bringing the total
1/   The aggregate data relative to REC commitments in the 22 month period
ending January 31, 1975 were divided by the corresponding number of
sub-projects sanctioned.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
to 23. paise/kwh for minor irrigation. For village electrification loads, the
cost of bulk power plus distribution losses is estimated at about 29 paise/kwh,
which is higher because of the higher coincidence of village loads with the
system peak load. The mix of minor irrigation (56%) and village (44%)
electric loads in a typical REC project leads to an average cost of bulk
power supply of 25 paise/kwh, inclusive of distribution losses.
11.       Economics of the Well Electrification Component Alone.  This was
determined through a present worth comparison of the costs and benefits of
the minor irrigation component of a typical REC-financed project. The
costs comprise: (i) the full investment in electricity distribution facil-
ities necessary to electrify the wells alone (including connection costs);
(ii) the investment made by the farmer such as well drilling and pumpset
purchase; (iii) the operating and maintenance costs of electricity distri-
bution facilities; and (iv) the economic cost of bulk power. The benefits
are taken as the value of the incremental agricultural production attributable
to the project minus operating expenses other than power costs. The data
used and results obtained are shown in the table below:



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Economics of Electric Pumping (570 wells of 4.8 kw each)
(Rs 1,000)
Value o a
Investment                     Cost of      Agriculture      Net
Year    SEB La Farmers /b  O&M by SEB  Bulk Power   Production    Benefits
1     1,436       610                                                (2,046)
2     1,026       610          12           63            399        (1,312)
3       821    1,220           24          126            798        (1,393)
4       410    1,220           48          252          1,596        (  335)
5       410    1,220           73          377          2,394           313
6               1,220          98          503          3,192         1,370
7-15                           123 /c       629 /d       3,990 If      3,238
16                 251         123          629          3,990         2,987
17                 251         123          629          3,990         2,987
18                 502         123          629          3,990         2,736
19                 502         123          629          3,990         2,736
20                 502         123          629          3,990         2,736
21                 502         123          629          3,990         2,736
22-30                           123          629          3,990         3,238
Net Present Worth (at 12% discount rate)=10.380
Rate of Return = 27.1%
/a   Rs 1,500 x 4.8 kw x 570 (wells) = Rs 4,104,000 (year 1, 35%; year 2,
25%; year 3, 20%; years 4 & 5, 10%).
/b   Initial investment is Rs 10,700 per well (pumpset, 4,335; other, 6,365).
For the 570 wells of the project, total farmers' initial investment is
Rs 10,700 x 570 - Rs 6,099,000 spread over years 1 to 6 (10%, 10%, 20%,
20%, 20%, 20%). Renewal investment is RS 4,400 per well (pumpset,
3,135; other 1,265). For the 570 wells, the farmers' renewal invest-
ment is Rs 4,400 x 570 = Rs 2,508,000 spread over years 15 to 21 (10%,
10%, 20%, 20%, 20%, 20%).
/c   Rs 1,500 x 4.8 kw x 570 x 3%.
/d   4.8 kw x 1,000 hours x 570 x .23 Rs/kwh.
/e   Net of operating expenses other than power costs.  Year 1, 0%; year 2,
10%; year 3, 20%; year 4, 40%; year 5, 60%; year 6, 80%; year 7 onward,
full value.
/f   Rs 7,000 x 570.
7T   Or Rs 19,000 per well.  Under assumptions made in Appendix 4-D and
paras 3 to 5, diesel pumping was calculated to be more costly than
electricity pumping, by Rs 1,430 per well on a present worth basis.
This is smaller than the above net present worth of an electrified
well (Rs 19,000) and it therefore follows that, under the assumptions
made, the use of diesel pumpsets would be an economically paying
proposition in the absence of the electrification alternative.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Justification of the Village Electrification
Component in a Typical REC-financed Project
12.       Further to the justification of only well electrification pre-
viously established, an evaluation is now made of the benefits and costs
associated with the extension of electricity service to the villages. The
costs comprise (i) the incremental cost in electricity distribution facili-
ties inclusive of connection costs; (ii) the investment made by small indus-
try consumers; (iii) the operating and maintenance costs of electricity dis-
tribution facilities; and (iv) the economic cost of bulk power at 11 KV bus-
bars. The benefits comprise (i) the value 1/ of the incremental output from
small industry; and (ii) the revenues from commercial and domestic consumers.
13.       The table shows the various cost and benefit elements of the cal-
culation for the typical project described in paras 9 and 10, and the results
obtained:
1/   Net of operating expenses other than the cost of power.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Village Electrification Component
(Rs 1,000)
O&M                Value of a   Domestic &
Investment      by      Cost of      Industry   Commercial    Net
Year   SEB /a Industry /b  SEB   Bulk Power  Production   Revenues   Benefits
1     583        120                                                    (703)
2     416        120       5         70           60          46        (506)
3     333        240      10        141          120          92        (512)
4     167        240      15        282          240          184-      (285)
5     167        240      20        423          360         276        (224)
6                240      40        564         480          368           4
7-15                       50 /c    705 /d        600 /f      460 /g      305
16                 60      50        705          600         460         245
17                 60      50        705          600         460         245
18                120      50        705          600         460         185
19                120      50        705          600         460         185
20                120      50        705          600         460         185
21                120      50        705          600         460         185
22-30                       50        705          600         460         305
Net Present Worth (at 12% discount rate) -           -640
Rate of Return - 8.1%
/a   Rs 770 x 2,161 kw - Rs 1,666,000 (year 1, 35%; year 2, 25%; year 3, 20%;
years 4 & 5, 10%).
lb   Initial investment is Rs 12,000 x 100 - Rs 1,200,000 spread over years
1 to 6 (10%, 10%, 20%, 20%, 20%, 20%).  Renewal investment is Rs 6,000
x 100 - Rs 600,000 spread over years 16 to 21 (10%, 10%, 20%, 20%, 20%,
20%).
/c   Rs 770 x 2,161 kw x 3%.
/d   29 paise/kwh x 2,434,000 kwh.
Je   Net of operating expenses other than power costs (year 1, 0%; year 2,
10%; year 3, 20%; year 4, 40%;.year 5, 60%; year 6, 80%; year 7 onward,
full value).
If   Rs 6,000 x 100.
/a   40 paise/kwh x 1,160 kw x 1,000 hours.
Return on Investment for the Typical REC-financed Project
14.       The following table shows the combined cost and benefit elements
and results of the calculation for the typical project described in paras
9 and 10:



ANNEX 4
Page 1 0
Typical REC-financed Project
(Rs 1,000)
Cost     Value o0f/
O&M    of       Production    Domestic &
Investment        by    Bulk  by Agri- by In- Commercial  Net
Year SEB /a Consumers /b  SEB   Power zulture  dustry  Revenues  Benefits
1   2,022        730      17                                          (2,752)
2   1,445        730      17      129      399      60      46        (1,816)
3   1,156     1,460       35      253      798    120       92        (1,899)
4     578      1,460      69      516    1,595    240       184       (  603)
5     578     1,460      104      774    2,394    360      276           114
6              1,460     138   1, 032/d  3,192 /f  480,    368         1,410
7-15                      1734 129   3,990-  6OO            460         3,587
16                311     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         3,276
17                311     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         3,276
18                622     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         2,965
19                622     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         2,965
20                622     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         2,965
21                622     173   1,290    3,990    600       460         2,965
22-30                      173   1,290    3,990    600       460         3,587
Net Present Worth (at 12% discount rate) -          9,984
Rate of Return - 23.4%
/a   Rs 1,180 x 4,897 kw - Rs 5,778,000 (year 1, 35%; year 2, 25%; year 3,
20%; years 4 & 5, 10%).
/b   Initial investment is Rs 10,700 x 570 (wells) + Rs 12,000 x 100 (in-
dustry) - Rs 7,299,000 spread over years 1 to 6 (10%, 10%, 20%, 20%,
20%, 20Z). Renewal investment is Rs 4,400 x 570 (wells) + Rs 6,000
x 100 (industry)   RS 3,108,000 spread over years 16 to 21 (10%, 10%,
20%, 20%, 20%, 20%).
/c   Rs 1,180 x 4,897 kw x 3%.
/d   25 paise/kwh x 5,170,000 kwh.
/e   Net of operating expenses other than power costs (year 1, 0%; year 2,
10%; year 3, 20%; year 4, 40%; year 5, 60%; year 6, 80%; year 7 onward,
full value).
/f   Rs 7,000 x 570.
/&   Rs 6,000 x 100.
/h   40 paise/kwh x 1,160 kw x 1,000 hours.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
15.       Rates of Return Computed by REC Staff on Specific Sub-Projects.
At the Association's request REC staff calculated the rates of return on
three specific sub-projects using the same methodology as in para 14:
Proportion
of Connected
No. of         Load for
Location       Category        Villages    Minor Irrigation   Rate of Return
Bangalore  Ordinary Advanced    125              58%               19.5%
Damoh      Ordinary Backward      45             71%               20.0%
Nainital   Specially
Underdeveloped     215              19%               19.0%
Returns on Minor Irrigation Investments in IDA Agricultural Credits
16.       The Association has made agricultural credits to promote farm in-
vestment in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana,
Maharastra, Madhya Pradesh, Mysore and Tamil Nadu. The appraisal reports
contain a number of typical farm models based on well electrification. The
returns on the farmer's investment (shown in the table below) are high,
ranging from 20% to 50%. Since electricity was treated as an input charged
according to prevailing electricity tariffs, which are largely subsidized,
corrections were made to take into account an estimate of the economic costs
of electricity. Although the latter are typically twice the prevailing tar-
iffs, the returns on the farmers' investment remain high, generally ranging
from 15% to 25%:



ANNEX 4
Page 12
Farm                  /a            lb     Ic       /d
Appraisal  Model          Type of-         Farm-  Old-   New-
State          Report No.  No.           Investment        Size   Return  Return
(ha)   -    (%)---
Andhra Pradesh  PA-59                Various                         30       21
Gujarat          PA-34               Various                         29       26
Haryana          PA-80       I       Tubewell + E.P.         3       22       19
Haryana          PA-80       II      Tubewell + E.P.         5       25       21
Haryana          PA-80       III     Tubewell + E.P.         8       27       22
Maharashtra      PA-116      I       Improved Dugwell
+ E.P.            4       50       24
Maharashtra      PA-116      II      Dugwell + E.P.          5       33       28
Maharashtra      PA-116      III     Tubewell + E.P.         5       41       28
Madhya Pradesh  104-IN       I       Well Improvement
+ E.P.            2.5    100+      50
Madhya Pradesh  104-IN       IV      Dug-cum-borewell
+ E.P. +
Minor Farm Dev.  3.5      24       15
Mysore           PA-105      II      Borewell + E.P.         2       21       15
Mysore           PA-105      III     Dugwell + E.P.          2       12        6
Mysore           PA-105     IV       Dug-cum-borewell
+ pump
modification      2       35       29
Uttar Pradesh   107-IN       III     Tubewell + E.P.         2       28       25
Uttar Pradesh   107-IN      IV       Tubewell + D.P.        4        34       34
Uttar Pradesh   107-IN      V        Tubewell + E.P.         4       35       31
/a   E.P. - Electric Pumpset.
lb   Farm size or well command area.
/c   Rate of return with electricity charges based on prevailing tariffs.
/d   Rate of return with electricity charges based on economic costs.
NCAER's Study on the Impact of Rural Electrification in Punjab
17.       A National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) study
published in May 1967 covered 50 villages (out of 5,221) with a population
below 10,000, electrified on or before March 31, 1965. Data were collected
by canvassing 131 schedules for agricultural pumpsets, 125 for commercial
establishments, 103 for industrial units and 385 for residential users of
electricity. The methodology consisted of calculating a benefit-cost ratio
by relating, for FY 1965/66, the revenues to the Punjab State Electricity
Board (PSEB) plus the additional benefits to the various consumers to the



ANNEX 4
Page 13 ;,
total annual cost, i.e., depreciation, financial charges, O0M on both PSEB's
and consumers' assets. Although this methodology is not beyond criticism
since it is not based on a present worth concept and also the capital cost
figure relates to different schemes of different ages, it provides a rough
idea of the economic attractiveness of rural electrification in Punjab. The
benefit/cost ratio obtained for the average electrified village was 3.7.
Correcting for a more realistic depreciation charge and an interest rate
on capital better reflecting the opportunity cost of capital in India brings
down the benefit/cost ratio to the still high value of 2.5 (equivalent to an
economic rate of return in the region of 30%). It is interesting to note
that this high ratio is mainly due to minor irrigation benefits as evidenced
by the fact that if consumers' surpluses were ignored for consumers other
than pumpset users (i.e. agro-industry, commercial, domestic), the benefit/
cost ratio would only drop to 2.1.



ANNEX 4
INDIA                      Appendix 4-A
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
COST OF A 5 H.P. DIESEL PUMP SET 
Rs
1. Cost of Kirloskar AVI Diesel
Engine excluding taxes and
duties (market share 80C)                   2,g70
2. Pump 2-1/2 x 3" 65 E 250
Kirloskar type                                470
3.  Base plate                                    100
4.  Coupling                                       50
5.  Cooling arrangement                            30
6.  Bend, foot valve 2.1/2 x 3"
pipe and other accessories
for 30'                                       400
7.  Transport                                     150
8.  Fitting charges                               250
9.  Other charges & labor                         100.
10.  Engine room                                 1,000
11.  Foundation                                   1400
Total                                 5,920
1/  Sales tax (6%) and Central tax (3%), which would normally
be levied on items 1 to 6 are excluded here.
Source: REC, February 1975



'AINEX 4
INDIA                      Appendix 4.-B
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
COST OF A 5 H.P. ELECTRIC PUMP SET -
Rs
1. Cost of Cromption 5 HP mono bloc
(market share 60%)                           1,905
2. Electric accessories
1.  Cable 25'                                   60
2.  Starter                                    200
3.  Switch board                                25
4.  Conduit pipe                                20
5.  Switch main 15 A                            50
6.  Earthing                                    25
3.  Bend, foot valve 2.1/2"x3"
pipe with other accessories
for 30t                                        400
4. Transport                                       100
5. Fitting charges                                 250
6.  Other charges & labor                          100
7. Pump shed                                     1,000
8.  Foundation                                     200
Total                                  4 335
1/ Sales tax (6%) and Central tax (3%), which would normally
be levied on items 1 to 3 are excluded here.
Source: REC, February 1975



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ELECTRICITY/DIESEL LEAST-COST COMPARISON FOR 5 HP WELL/BASIC CASE
(Rupees of 1974)
DIESEL COSTS                                              ELECTRICITY COSTS
Investment        O&M            Total            Investments                              O&M                   Total
Year    Pumpset    O&M    Diesel Oil             Pumpset  Dist.  Trans.  Gen.   Pumpset  Dist.  Trans.  Gen.  Coal
03/                               Q1 2/6    84                                 9/      L      To,
1        5,920/   860-/        660 y    7,440     4,335?/6,660   1,020   3,460    280r   165        9 9/   507/  18o   16,159
2-10               860        660       1,520                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
11       4,520     860         660      6,040                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
12-15              860         660      1,520                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
16                 860         660      1,520     3,135                             280    165      9      50    180    3,819
17-20              860        660       1,520                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
21       4,520     860         660      6,040                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
22-30              860         660      1,520                                       280    165      9      50    180       684
Present Worth of Diesel Costs  y   21,560                           Present Worth of Electricity Costs                22,220
(Equalizing Discount Rate = 11.0%)
includes engine room and foundation (1,400)
2/  includes engine room and foundation (1,300)
3'/ operator (160) + maintenance (400) + lubricants (300)
17/ operator (80) + maintenance (200)
/ 1,000 hours per annum x 1.1 liter per hour x .6 Rs per liter of diesel oil
6/  2,400 Rslkw x 3.7 kw x 1.25 (reserve) x .2 (diversity) x 1.2 (physical losses) x 1.3 (interest during construction)
7/ 2% of capital investment per annum
/ 960 Rs/kw x 3.7 kw x .2 (diversity) x 1.2 (physical losses) x 1.2 (interest during construction)
1/  l  of capital investment per anum
10/  2,500 cal/kwh/5,000 kcal/kg x 80 Rs/ton (60 at the mine + 20 for transportation 500 km away) x 1.2 (physical   
losses) x 3.7 kw x 1,000 hours
11/  at 12% discount rate                                                                                                     H _
T/  1,500 Rs/kw x 3.7 kw x 1.2 (interest during construction)



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
ELECTRICITY/DIESEL LEAST-COST COMPARISON FOR 5 HP WELL/50% PREMMIU ON FOREIGN EXCHANGE
(Rupees of 1974)
DIESEL COSTS                                              ELECTRICITY COSTS
Investment        O&M         Total               Investments                             O&M                     Total
Year    Pumpset   O&M   Diesel Oil             Pumpset  Dist.   Trans.  Gen.   Pumpset  Dist.  Trans.  Gen.  Coal
1        5,920    8602      980       7,760      4,335/ 6,660!L  1,180  3,990/  280 /  165    10 2    60-   180-  16,860
2-10               860      980       1,840                                        280     165    10        60    180        695
11       4,520    860        980      6,360                                        280     165    10        60    180        695
12-15              860      980       1,840                                        280     165    10        60    180        695
16                 860      980       1,840      3,135                             280     165    10       60    180      3,830
17-20              860      980       1,840                                        280     165    10       60    180         695
21       4,520    860       980       6,360                                        280     165    10       60    180         695
22-30              860      980       1,840                                        280     165    10       60    180         695
Present Worth of Diesel Costs -/24,440                                          Present Worth of Electricity Costs       010
(Equalizing Discount Rate=14.0%)
1/ includes engine room and foundation (1,400)
2/ includes engine room and foundation (1,300)
3/  operator (160)+maintenance (400) + lubricants (300)
17/ operator (80) + maintenance (200)
5/ 1,000 hours per annum x 1.1 liter per hour x .6 Rs per liter of diesel oil x 1.48 (foreign exchange shadow pricing)
T/ 2,400 Rs/kw x 3.7 kw x 1.25 (reserve) x .2 (diversity) x 1.2 (physical losses) x 1.3 (interest during
construction) x 1.15 (for exch. shadow pricing)
7/ 2% of capital investment per annum
/  960 Rs/kw x 3.7 kw x .2 (diversity) x 1.2 (physical losses) x 1.15 (foreign exchange shadow pricing)
x 1.2 (interest during construction)                                                                                     (
9/  1% of capital investment per annum
~g/  2,500 cal/kwh/5,000 kcal/kg x 80 Rs/ton (60 at the mine + 20 for transportation 500 km away) x 1.2                          X Tr
(physical losses) x 3.7 kw x 1,000 hours.
11/ at 12% discount rate
S/  1,500 RsA/w x 3.7 kw x 1.2 (interest during construction)



ANNEX 5
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
AVERAGE RATES FOR AGRICULTURAL -/, INDUSTRIAL -/, COMMERCIAL V    DOMESTIC -/CONSUMPTION
State Electricity Board              Rate in Paise per kwh (duty/tax content between brackets)
Agricultural    Small Industry    Commercial    Domestic
Andhra Pradesh                        16.00(-  )    25.22 ( -  )    58.-o ( -  )  39.00 ( -  )
Assam                                 14.00 ( -  )   17.00 (1.00)    43.00 (3.00)   40.00 (3.00)
Bihar                                 18.10 (1.00)    21.00 (1.00)    46.00 (6.00)   66.oo (6.oo)
Gujarat                               19.92 (1.20)    21.48 (1.60)    40.04 (10.00)  36.10 (6.oo)
Haryana                               21.76 ( -  )   22.08 (2.88)    51.00 (11.00)  37.00 (3.00)
Himachal PradeshAJ rban                 -   ( -  )    12.61 ( -  )   38.00 (-  )  35-00 ( -  )
it     II  /Rural                   9.00(-  )   12.61 ( -  )   38.00(-  )   20.00(-  )
Jammu & Kashmir/Jammu                 11.50 (1.50)    12.52 (1.63)    38.57 (3.57)   37.45 (2-45)
nt     it  /Kashmir                11.50 (1.50)    10.22 (1.33)    38.57 (3.57)   37-45 (2-45)
Kerala                                 9.90 (0.90)    16.50 (1.50)    41.80 (3.80)      -   ( -  )
Madhya Pradesh                        16.00 ( -  )   20.50 (1.50)    45.00 (8.00)   34.50 (6.50)
Maharashtra                           21.58 ( -  )   22.58 (1.00)    50.00 (15.00)  36.00 (5.00)
Mysore                                12.00 (1.00)    16.50 (4.50)    44.50 (4.50)   34.50 (4-50)
Orissa                                17.90 (2.25)    21.35 (2-70)    35.65 (4.65)   32-59 (4.20)
Punjab                                21.14 ( -  )   12.96 (2.16)    40.80 (8.80)       -   ( -  )
Rajasthan                             21.00 ( -  )   22.00 (1.00)    50.00 ( -  )  43.00 (5-00)
Tamil Nadu                            12.00(-  )    26.00(-  )   58.50(-  )  35-00(-  )
Uttar Pradesh/Luchnow, Allahabad,
and Kanpur             27.57 ( -  )    24.00 (1.00)    36.00 (6.00)   50.00 ( -  )
' I  /Rest                    -   ( -  )       -   ( -  )   42.00 (2.00)   50.00 ( -  )
West Bengal                           28.00 (6.oo)    22.33 (0.33)    43.00 (3.00)   43.00 (3.00)
Non-SEB Service
Chandigarh                            12.87 ( -  )   12.96 (2.16)    32.55 (8.80)   34.25 (3.00)
Delhi                                 16.00 (1.00)    16.00 (1.00)    24.00 (2.00)   20.00 (2.00)
Goa, Daman & Diu                      14.00(-  )   14.00(-  )   40.00(-  )  30.00(-  )
Manipur                               25.00(-  )   25.o0(-  )            -   (-  )  45-00(-  )
Nagaland                              12.00(-  )   20.00(-  )   45.00(-  )  45.00(    )
Pondicherry                           11.00 ( -  )   18.00 ( -  )   45.00 ( -  )  33.00 ( -  )
Ahmedabad                             16.72 (1.20)    20.75 (1.60)    43.84 (10.00)  29.50 (6.00)
Bombay/B.E.S.T.                         -   ( _  )   22.00 (1.00)    52.00 (20.00)  26.00 (6.00)
"  /Suburban                          -   ( _  )    24.75 (1.00)    53.00 (20.00)  26.00 (6.oo)
Calcutta                                -   ( -  )   17.13 (0.33)    19.75 (3.00)   16.75 ( -  )
Source: Central Water and Power Coimnission, February 1975.
1/ 5 HP, 10% load factor, 272 kwh per month.
7/  10 HP, 15% load factor, 817 kwh per month.
3/ Lights and fans, 50 kwh per month.
4/ Lights and fans, 10 kwh per month.
g/ Union Territories/State Government Electricity Departments/Places served by licensees.



TINDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
Balance Sheets for Fiscal Year 1970 through 1974 (Actual) and Fiscal Year 1975 through 1979 (Forecast)
(in millions of Rupees, except where otherwise stated)
ACTUAL                                                 FORECAST
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974            1975      1976      1977       1978       1979
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                         -        0.2       0.3       0.7       0.9             1.1        1.3       1.5       1.7        1.9
Less Depreciation                                _-                 0.1       0.2       0.3             o.4        0.5       0.7       0.9        1.1
Net Fixed Assets                                 -        0.2       0.2       0.5       0T 0.7                    OTT        07          7        07
Investments in Government Securities               99.5      60.4    101.6    204.4    118.0               61.7       4.6       18.4     108.9      214.9
Loans Disbursed & Outstanding                        -      260.9    621.9   1120.8   1642.5             2410.4   3194.1   4466.3    6302.9        8332.6
Current Assets                                      1.0       4.7       9.8      22.5      32.4            67.7      68.2       66.5      66.3       67.9
Total Assets                                      100.5     326.2    733.5   1348.2    1793.5            2540.5   3267.7    4552.0    6478.9    8616.2
LIABILITIES
Equity and Reserves
Share Capital                                  30.0    110.0    120.0       200.0    310.0            500.0    630.0       760.0     880.0     1000.0
Capital Reserve                                70.0    210.0    490.0    898.4   1050.0              1050.0   1050.0    1050.0    1050.0       1050.0
Retained Earnings                               0.5       2.9       9.4      24.9      48.5            77.6    107.1       135.9     162.7      186.3
Total Equity and Reserves                     100.5    322.9    619.4   1123.3   140.5               1627.6   1787.1   1945.9   2092.7 
Long Term Debt                                       -         -      105.0    204.7    353.4             790.4   1257.4   2284.4   3964.7         5856.8
Market Loan                                                             -         -         -              82.5    182.5    282.5        382.5      482.5
Current Liabilities                                  -        0.4       1.4       2.2       3.3        *   6.6        4.4        2.0       2.8        6.3
Provision for Taxation                               -        2.9       7.7      18.0      28.3            33.4      36.3       37.2      36.2       34.3
Total Liabilities                                 100.5    326.2    733.5   1348.2   1793.5              2540.5   3267.7    4552.0   6478.9        8616.2
Debt/Equity Ratio                                    -         -      14/86     15/85     20/80             35/65   45/55      57/43     67/33      74/26                    x
REC Commitment to disburse loans
sanctioned to date                               -      425.6    716.0    1163.1   1397.2            1835.5    2245.5   2345.5   2105.5    2045.5
Source: REC, February 1975



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
Statements showing amount of Loan Sanctions, Disbursements, and Balances Undisbursed
(in millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
Loans Sanctioned                                                                         Disbursement of Loans Sanctioned
Annual                                        ACTUAL                                             FORECAST
Year to       Accumulated       Harijan    Rural Electn.
31 March         Total           Basti         Total                         1970      1971     1972     1973     1974           1975     1976.   1977       1978     1979
1970            54.0             -             54.0                          -         -        -        -        -              -        -         -        -        -
1971           686.5             -           632.5                           -     260.9    139.6      53.7     36.9           65.4     80.0     50.0        -        _
1972          1337.9            5.6          645.8                           -               217.1     8o.1     71.3           64.6     50.0     20.0    142.7        -
1973          2284.2           14.3          932.0                           _        -         -     355.3    138.0           79.0     55.9    202.4      64.1     37.3
1974          3040.9           i6.8          739.9                           -        -         -        -     265.8           61.0     24.1     47.6    123.2    212.7
1975          4249.2            8.3          1200.0                                        -                      -           480.0    240.0    180.0    180.0    120.0
1976          5449.2             -           1200.0                                             -                                -     340.0    260.0    240.0    210.0
1977          6849.2             -           1400.0                          -         -        -        -        -              -        -     540.0    360.0    220.0
1978          8499.2             -           1650.0                          -        _         _                 _              _                        780.0    330.0
1979         10549.2             -          2050.0                           -         -        -        -        -              -        -         -        -     980.0
Total - Rural Electrification Loans                               -     260.9    356.7   489.1    512.0           750.0    790.0   1300.0  1890.0   2110.0
- Harijan Basti                                             -        -       4.3      10.1     10.6           20.0      _-                           -
Total - Loan Disbursements                                        _     260.9    361.0    499.2    522.6           770.0    790.0   1300.0  1890.0   2110.0
No. of Schemes sanctioned during year
- Rural Electrification Projects                          11       94      105       200      208           300       300      400       500      600
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                    -        -        10       27       38             35        -        -         -        -
Total No. of Schemes sanctioned to date
- Rural Electrification Projects                          11      105      210       410      618           918      1218     1618     2118      2718
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                    -        -        10       37       75           110       110      110      110       110
Loans sanctioned during year
- Rural Electrification  Projects                         54.o    632.5   645.8    932.0    739.9          1200.0   1200.0  1400.0   1650.0   2050.0
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                                      5 -  5.6  14.3    16.8           8.3        -        -         -        -
Total Loans sanctioned to date                                             54.o   686.5   1337.9  2284.2   3040.9            4249.2   5449.2  6849.2   8499.2  10549.2
Total Disbursements to date                                                  -      260.9    621.9  1121.1   1643.7          2413.7   3203.7   4503.7   6393.7   8503.7
Loan Repayment during year                                                   _ -                -       0.3      0.9            2.1      6.3     27.8      53.4     80.3
Total Loan Repayment to date                                                 _ -                -       0.3      1.2            3.3      9.6      37.4     90.8    171.1
Loan Disbursements not repaid                                                 -     260.9    621.9   1120.8   1642.5         2410.4   3194.1  4466.3   6302.9   8332.6
Undisbursed Loans                                                          54.o    425.6   716.0   1163.1   1397.2           1835.5   2245.5   2345.5   2105.5   2045.5
Source: REC, February 1975



INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
Source & Application of Funds for FY 1970-1974 (Actual) and FY 1975-1979 (Forecast)
(In millions of Rupees)
ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
SOURCES                                                   19'10     1971       1972       1973       1974           1975       1976      1977       1978       1979
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income (after interest)                   0.5        5.3       15.1       34.7      53.9           65.6      *70.8       72.3       70.6       66.7
Depreciation                                         -          -         0.1        0.1       0.1            0.1        0.1        0.2        0.2        0.2
Cash Generation                                     0.5        5.3       15.2       354.0                    65.7       70.9       72.5       707 0.89
Less Deductions
Income Tax Provision                                 -         2.9        7.7       18.0      28.3           33.4       36.3       37.2       36.2       34.3
Dividends                                             -         -         0.9        1.2        2.0           3.1        5.0        6.3        7.6        8.8
Repayment of GOI Loans                                -         -          _         0.3        1.3            3.0       3.0         3.0       9.7       15.4
Total Deductions                                     -         2       9 -TT        19.5      31.7           39.5          6          5       53.5   53. 5
Net Cash Generation                                  0.5       2.4                  15.3      2.4            26.2       26.6T      26.        17.3        8
Capital Raised,
USAID                                              70.0      140.0      280.0      408.4     151.6              -         -          -          -          -
GOI Equity Contributions                           30.0       80.0       10.0      80.0      110.0          190.0      130.0      130.0      120.0      120.0
GOI Loans                                            -          -       100.0       85.0     125.0          440.0      470.0    1030.0    1690.0    1907.5
GOI Loans for Harijan Basti Program 2                 -         -         5.0       15.0      25.0              -         -          -          -          -
Market Loans                                          -         -          -          -          -           82.5      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Repayment of Loans Sanctioned by REC                  -         -          -         0.3       0.9             2.1       6.3       27.8       53.4       80.3
Total Capital                                     100.0      220.0      395.0                412.5          714.6                           IW3270. TiT19    2207.8
Working Capital (Increase) Decrease                     (1.0)      (0.4)      0.7       (1.6)       1.5          (26.9)        _          _                    -
Sale of Government Securities                        -        39.1         -          -       86.4           56.3       57.3         -        _            _
TOTAL SOURCES                                      99.5      261.1     402.3      602.4      522.8          770.2      790.2    1313.8    1980.7    2216.2
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditures                                      -        0.2        0.1        o.4        0.2            0.2       0.2         0.2       0.2        0.2
Disbursement of Loans Sanctioned                          -      260.9      361.0      499.2      522.6          770.0     790.0    1300.0    1890.0    2110.0
Investment in Government Secutiries                     99.5        -        41.2      102.8         -              -          -       13.6       90.5      106.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                 99.5      261.1      402.3     602.4      522.8          770.2      790.2    1313.8    1980.7    2216.2
/ 'Harijan Basti' means the underprivileged section of the population who live in the outskirts of the villages.  The loans are mainly for minimal street lighting.
2/ Assumes bond issues repayable after FY 1979.
Source: REC, February 1975
Cn



INDIA
RURAL ELECTSRIFICATION CORPORATION
Income Statements for FY 1970-1974 (Actual) and FY 1975-1979 (Forecast)
(millions of Rapees)
ACTUAL                                                   FORECAST
Year to March 31         1970      1971      1972      1973      1974              1975       1976      1977      1978      1979
Revenue
Interest on Loans Advanced 1/                      -        2.2      15.0      36.3      63.0             110.9    153.8    212.9    308.3         429.6
Interest on Investments Gross s                   0.7       4.5       3.7      10.9      10.6               1.4        0.9       o.6       0.8       o.6
Total Revenue                                     0.7       6.7      18.7      47.2      73.6             112.3    154.7    213.5        309.1     430.2
Exp inistration                                       0.2       1.4       2.7       5.6       6.9              11.0       13.0      15.0      17.0      19.0
Interest on Borrowed Money                        _          -        0.9       6.9      12.8              35.5       70.9    126.2      221.5     344.5
Total Expenses                                    0.2       1.4       3.6      12.5      19.7              46.5      83.9    141.2    238.5        363.5
Operating Income (after interest)                  0.5       5.3      15.1      34.7      53.9              65.8       70.8      72.3      70.6      66.7
Income-Tax Provision for Year L                    -       (2.9)     (7.7)    (18.0)    (28.3)             (33.4)    (36.3)    (37.2)    (36.2)    (34.3)
Dividend on Previous Year 3/                                         (0.9)     (1.2)     (2.0)              (3.1)     (5.0)     (6-3)     (7.6)      (8.8)
Earned Surplus for year                            0.5       2.4       6.5      15.5      23.6               29.3      29.5      28.8      26.8      23.6
Interest Cost % of Revenue                          -         -        5        15        17                 32        46        59        72        80
Administration Cost % of Revenue                  29        21        14        12         9                  9         8         7         5         4
1/  Interest averages approximately 5.5% upto 1974 and 6.6% from 1975 to 1979 on loans advanced and approximately 4% p.a. on each temporarily invested in
Government Securities up to 9.2.75 & 4.6% thereafter.
2/ Income tax at approximately 57% on chargeable income.
S/ Dividend assumed at 1% of Share Capital at end of previous fiscal year.
Source: REC, February 1975



ANNEX 10
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
Statement Showing Calculation of Debt Service Coverag
(in Millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
Forecast
March 31                            1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
Total Revenue                      112.3      154.7     213.5     309.1      430.2
Less Deductions:
Administration                 (11.0)    (13.0)    (15-0)    (17.0)    (19.0)
Taxes                          (33.4)    (36.3)    (37.2)    (36.2)    (34.3)
Dividends                       (3.1)      (5.0)     (6.3)      (7.6)     (8.8)
Total Deductions                47~6      54.3       58.5      60.8      (6.1)
Net Revenue                         64.8      100.4     155.0     248.3      368.1
Add: Depreciation                    0.1        0.1       0.2        0.2       0.2
Add: Loan Repayments by SEBs         2.1        6.3      27.8       534       80.3
Internally Generated Fund           67.0      106.8     183.0      301.9     448.6
REC's Debt Service
Interest on Borrowed Money      35.5       70.9     126.2     221.5      344.5
Repayment of GOI Loan            3.0        3.0       3.0        9.7      15.4
38.5      73.9     129.2      231.2     359.9
Times Debt Service Covered by
Internally Generated Funds          1.7        1.4       1.4        1.31      1.24
May 1975



