CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 572 IN
Project Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION LIMITED
DATED JULY 23, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million dollars ($57,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that REC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and REC, funds equivalent to the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to REC on terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
(C)   REC, in   consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. REC shall cause the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound engineering, administrative and financial practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. REC shall cause the Boards to insure, or to make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to them by REC against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery tereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by such Boards to replace or repair such goods.
Section 2.04. (a) REC shall make Sub-loans only (i) to those Boards, as
determined by the Association, whose State Governments shall have agreed to
provide them with an annual subsidy to the extent required, if any, to enable
them to meet their respective obligations set forth in the undertakings furnished
by the Boards to the Borrower pursuant to Section 7.03 of the Loan Agreement
(Power Transmission Project) dated June 1, 1965, between the Borrower and the
Bank, as amended, provided that such subsidy shall in no case exceed the amount
which any Board would be otherwise entitled to receive under the provisions of
sub-paragraph (ii) of this Section, or (ii) to such other Boards whose State
Governments have agreed, or shall have agreed, to the satisfaction of the
Association, to provide them with an annual subsidy equivalent to the amount
by which each Board's operating expenses (including loan interest) in respect of
rural electrification operations exceed its revenues from such operations.
(b)   The Association shall, from time to time, inform REC of the names
of the Boards which shall have fulfilled the eligibility requirements under paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, REC shall not
finance any RE-Scheme under the Project which is not estimated to meet the
viability criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. REC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, REC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. REC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower;


﻿5
and (ii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. (a) REC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   REC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by REC of
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE HI
Management and Operations of REC
Section 3.0 1. (a) REC undertakes that. unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby REC shall obtain, by written
contract with the Board or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association and REC. including the right of REC to:
(i) require the Board to carry out its part of the Project With due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public utility
practices: (ii) require the Board to maintain records adequate to identify the goods
and services acquired out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof
in the Project, to record the progress of its part of the Project (including the
cost thereof): (iii) require the Board to use goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit exclusively in the carrying out of' the Project: (iv)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the Association
shall so request, such goods and the sites. works, and construction included in
the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents: (v)
require that the Board shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amoun ts, as shall be consistent with sound
business and public utility practices, or to make other adequate arrangements to
cover promptly any damage or losses resulting from such risks: (vi) obtain all such
information as the Association or REC shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Board; and (vii) suspend or terminate the rights of the Board to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Board to perform its obligations
under its contract with REC.


﻿6
(b)   REC shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and REC, (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.02. REC shall duly perform all its obligations under agreements
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of REC by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
REC shall promptly inform the Association of any action which would have the
effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision
of, any such agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, REC shall not
finance an RE Scheme unless adequate provision is made by REC to cover price
escalation during the construction period of such RE Scheme.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. REC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. REC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of REC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, REC shall
ensure that, (i) REC's internally generated funds in any financial year shall not
be less than 1.2 times its debt service requirements during that financial year, and
(b) REC's administrative expenses and interest payments in any financial year shall
not exceed 90% of the aggregate interest charges received by REC from all sources
during that financial year.


﻿7
For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         "internally generated funds" means the aggregate revenues from
all sources, and the principal repayments on loans made by REC,
less administrative expenses, dividends, taxes, surcharges and
other levies, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt; and
(ii)        "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization, interest and other charges in respect of debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of REC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify REC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿8
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For REC:
Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
D-5, N.D.S.E. Part 11
Ring Road
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
RECTRIC
New Delhi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of REC may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of REC or such
other person or persons as REC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. REC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of REC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by REC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.


﻿9
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as stated in part A2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for poles shall be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with the procedures applicable to the Boards for such contracts.
3.    For the purpose of invitation to bid, REC shall cause each Board to group
conductors, transformers, circuit breakers, capacitors, insulators and meters in
packages expected to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, provided, however,
that in the event that the total requirements of any Board for such items in any
year is expected to cost less than the said amount, REC shall cause such Board
to group such items in one package including all such Board's requirements for
such items for the said year.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods: (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Board of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿11
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from  group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15Q of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15"' of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    With respect to all contracts for goods (except poles):
(a)   Before bids are invited by any Board, REC shall obtain from such
Board and furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
cause such Board to make such modifications in the said documents or procedures


﻿12
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   REC shall cause each Board to notify REC promptly after the bids
have been received and shall inform the Association of the names of the bidders
and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated by a Board, REC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which the said Board intends to award the contract and the reasons
for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform REC and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract for poles, REC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform REC and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Viability Criteria for the Selection
of Rural Electrification Schemes
Minimum
Category &                Period                                        Terms of           Return***
Area/Type        Code    of Loan         Interest Rate*                Repayment**        for Project
not less
than
Ordinary-        OA      20 years         1st 5 years      7-1/4      5 years grace,       Break-even
Advanced                                  6-10 years       7-3/4     then repayment       in 7th year
11-15 years       8         over 15 years        3-1/2% in
16-20 years       9                              15th year
or
11-15 years       7-3/4     if repayment
in 15 years
Ordinary-        OB     25 years          1st 5 years      6-1/2      5 years grace,      Break-even
Backward                                  6-10 years       7          then repayment      in 10th year
11-15 years       7-1/2     over 20 years        3-1/2% in
16-20 years       8                              20th year
21-25 years       9
or
16-20 years       7-1/2     if repayment
in 20 years
Specially        SU     30 years          1st 5 years      5-3/4      5 years grace,      Break-even
under                                     6-10 years       6          then repayment      in 15th year
developed                                11-15 years       6-1/4      over 25 years        3-1/2% in
hill,                                    16-20 years       7                               25th year
desert,                                  21-25 years       8
tribal                                   26-30 years       9
areas, etc.                                  or
21-25 years       7         if repayment
in 25 years
Minimum          MNP    30 years         lst 10 years      5-3/4      5 years grace,      Break-even
Needs                                    11-20 years       6-1/4     then repayment       in 15th year
Program                                  21-30 years       7          over 25 years       3-1/2% in
25th year
System            SS       8 years       1st 4 years       7-1/2      1 year grace,        3-1/2% in
Improve-                                  5-8 years        8          then repayment       7th year
ment                                                                  over 7 yearg
MiniFarms        MF      10 years          1-10 years     7-3/4      2 years grace,
then repayment
over 8 years
*      The interest rates shown are net of the rebate of 1/4% allowed for prompt payment.
**     Repayment of both principal and interest, based on equated annual installments. In view of the
complicated calculations involved, repayment is now by equal installments of principal. In all cases
the State Governments are required to furnish full and unconditional guarantees in respect of the
payment of interest and repayment of principal by the State Electricity Board/Cooperatives.
*      Minimum return means the ratio which operating revenues, after providing for operating expenses
(including depreciation) and interest, bear to the total investment. Figures between brackets indicate
negative returns.
**     MF schemes are expected to have a minimum gross return (gross revenues as proportion of total
investment) of 10% in the year.


