CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 572 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 23, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 572 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Electrification Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 23, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and RURAL
ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION LIMITED (hereinafter called REC).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (hereinafter called REC), REC has
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in said project agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely that paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5.  The term Borrower means India, acting by its President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "REC" means Rural Electrification Corporation Limited, a company
registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of India;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and REC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time:
(d)   "Board" means any State Electricity Board established pursuant to
the Borrower's Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, as amended, in any of the States;
(e)   "State" means any state of India:
(f)   "RE Scheme" means a rural electrification scheme to be financed by
REC, and
(g)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by REC out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to a Board for an
RE Scheme.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven million dollars ($57,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree. to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree. the goods.
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower and REC of such later date.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 and
September I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985 and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
REC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable REC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend funds equivalent to the proceeds of the
Credit to REC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and REC under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, which
shall include, inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. When, with respect to any goods to be procured under Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement, the lowest evaluated bid falls under group C (as


﻿6
defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement), the Borrower
shall immediately grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract,
and no reviews of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or
by any of its agencies including the Directorate General of Technical Development,
and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available. When,
with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under group A or
under group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule I to the Project
Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate
applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available.
promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and
(iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation.
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any other provision of
this Agreement, the Borrower specifically undertakes to make available cach year
to REC funds sufficient to cover the difference, if any, between the disbursements
on loans sanctioned by REC up to the beginning of the financial year and funds
available with REC for making such disbursements.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that, (i) REC's internally generated funds in any financial year shall
not be less than 1.2 times its debt service requirements during that financial year,
and (ii) REC's administrative expenses and interest payments in any financial year
shall not exceed 90'< of the aggregate interest charges received by REC from all
sources during that financial year, all as defined in Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   REC shall have failed to perform any covenant. agreement or obligation
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement:


﻿7
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of REC or for the suspension
of its operations; and
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that REC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the ieaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of REC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and REC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters. within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has buuil duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, REC, and is legally binding upon REC
in accordance with its terms; and


﻿8
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and REC,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and REC in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 23, 1975, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              %o of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Conductors                     28,600,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(c.i.f.) or
100% of local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory)
(2)   Transformers and               11,400,000           100% of foreign
circuit breakers                                    expenditures
(c.i.f.)  or
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3)   Capacitors, in-                 8,500,000           100% of foreign
sulators and                                        expenditures
meters                                              (c.i.f.) or
100X of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(4)   Poles                           8,500000           50% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
TOTAL         57,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
0


﻿11
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shalt be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above. if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association undcr the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to accelerate rural
electrification in India with emphasis on providing energy for minor irrigation wells.
It consists of financing approximately 140 RE Schemes for construction of about
40,000 kms of primary and secondary distribution lines; acquisition and installation
of distribution transformers with an aggregate capacity of 500 MVA; acquisition
and installation of distribution line poles; and acquisition and utilization of
miscellaneous equipment.
The RE Schemes will be carried out by the Boards after approval by REC.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which funds
equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit shall be lent to REC by the Borrower:
(a)   In respect of loans to REC other than for Minimum Needs Program:
(i)         interest rate of 8%   per annum, less 1/4  for prompt
payment;
(ii)        repayment over fifteen years after five years of grace.
(b)   In respect of loans to REC for Minimum      Needs Program:
(i)         interest rate (net of 1/4%  relate for prompt repayment):
5-1/4 during the first ten years;
5-3/4 during the next ten years; and
6-1/4 during the last ten years.
(ii)        repayment over twenty-five years after five years of grace.
(c)   The Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.


