Report No. PIC2567
Project Name                   Indonesia-Railway Efficiency Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Transportation/Railways
Project ID                     IDPA4026
Borrower                       Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agencies          Perumka (State Railway Corporation)
Jl. Perintis Kemerdekaan No. 1
Bandung, 40117, West Java, INDONESIA
tel: 62.22.430-031
fax: 62.22.420-3342
Date This PID Prepared         November , 1996
Date of Last PID               June 21, 1996
Projected Appraisal date       July 1996
Board date                     November 21, 1996
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Over the past 10 years, the
Indonesian economy has grown at more than 6% p.a. with the most rapid
growth occurring on Java. The demand for transport grew at some 7%
p.a., and is poised to continue growing rapidly, placing heavy demands
on Indonesia's transport system. Java and Sumatra are the only islands
of the Indonesian archipelago that feature both road and rail transport.
Road is by far the dominant mode but rail - comprising an interconnected
network of 3,671 km on Java and three separate lines on Sumatra totaling
1,369 km - has maintained its market share in recent years. On Java the
system is primarily a passenger railway and accounts for some 7% of
interurban passenger movements; the Sumatra lines are primarily freight
railways accounting for some 13% of total freight movements on the
island.
2.   On Java, the potential for the railway in passenger transport is
much greater than its current role suggests. The island has a
population of 120 million and, with some 850 persons per square km, has
the highest population density in the world. Furthermore, as the major
centers of economic activity are strung along the approximately 1000 km
long northern coastline, they, combined with rapid urbanization, add to
the attractiveness of rail for interurban passenger transport. Without
further development of the railways the rapid growth in interurban
passenger travel demand in Java would have to be met entirely by road
transport causing major adverse environmental and social impacts.
Serious capacity constraints are already occurring on the road network
even though vehicle ownership at 23 vehicles per 1000 persons is only a
fraction of that in countries such as Japan (510 vehicles per 1000) and
South Korea (142 vehicles per 1000) with similar geography but lower
population densities. Road transport activity is a major contributor to
worsening air pollution on Java, and a high road traffic accident rate
is causing considerable human and material losses. Moreover, expansion
of the road network's capacity is already necessitating the loss of



valuable agricultural land and, in the vicinity of major cities, the
displacement of large numbers of people. An efficient railway system
will, therefore, be a crucial element of sustainable transport on Java.
3.   On Sumatra, with a population density one-tenth of Java's and an
economy that is heavily dependent on primary industry, rail's potential
role is quite different. The main drivers for its development are major
mining projects, such as the expansion of the Bukit Asam coal mine, and
other large-scale projects (e.g. cement) for which rail can have an
economic role. Expansion of the three Sumatra railway systems should,
therefore, depend on the phasing of such projects rather than on the
growth of passenger and freight traffic in general. The required
investments should be evaluated and justified as an integral part of
these projects on a commercial basis.
4.   Lessons Learned from Past Operations.   The Bank has financed only
two railway projects in Indonesia. The first (Loan 1005-IND) of 1974
focused on investments and operational improvements. It succeeded in
its immediate objectives but had a limited impact on the institutional
set-up and the railway's financial situation. After a 10 year hiatus,
the Railway Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2891-IND) of 1987, was
far more successful in these areas. It was very effective in providing
practical training in modern railway management practices for a group of
middle-managers from whom many of the current top management team has
since been drawn. It was instrumental in initiating the early reform
initiatives and in supporting the transition from departmental agency to
public corporation status.
5.   Project Objectives.   The general objective is to improve the
economic efficiency and service quality of Indonesia's railway subsector
to position it to play its proper role within the transport system. The
project aims specifically at: (a) railway subsector policy reform by
restructuring the railway corporation, reforming the relationship
between it and government and creating the foundations for expanded
private participation; (b) rationalizing railway subsector capital
investments; (c) improving railway subsector management and operations;
and (d) increasing the physical capacity of an important railway
corridor.
6.   Project Description. The project consists of    five components:
a)   Policy reform involving restructuring of Perumka into a
Persero (limited liability company) and reform of Government-
corporate interfaces;
b)   Improvements to the railway in the important Jakarta-Bandung
corridor (170 km) to expand capacity, shorten passenger
journey times and improve safety;
c)   Implementation of a modern track maintenance system on Java;
d)   Implementation of a diesel electric locomotive unit exchange
maintenance system on Java; and
e)   Strengthening of Perumka's management.
7.   Project Financing.   The total project cost is estimated at US$207.3
million. The Bank loan represents US$105 million. Perumka will
contribute US$24 million equivalent and Government about US$39.7 million
equivalent. Australia will financed the equivalent of US$56 million.
-2 -



8.   Implementation.   By Ministerial Decree, the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) has established a high level Inter-Agency
Coordination Committee (IACC) to guide and oversee the implementation of
the policy reform and the proposed project. This will be supported by
a Restructuring Task Force (RTF) responsible for the policy reform and
a Project Management Unit (PMU) comprising key Perumka personnel
responsible for the investment and institutional development components.
9.   Environmental Aspects. This is an environmental category 'B'
project, with no major adverse environmental impacts expected. The
partial double-tracking of the Cikampek-Padalarang section is straight-
forward and does not involve the construction of major structures and/or
pose risk of damage to environmentally sensitive areas. Appropriate
mitigation measures designed to safeguard drainage structures and
minimize dust, traffic disruption, workplace hazards and other impacts
of the construction work will be included in the conditions of contract.
The diesel locomotive maintenance component entails the limited
upgrading of existing workshop and depot buildings and equipment within
existing boundaries. Specific provision will be made for preventing
workshop and depot operations affecting the surrounding environment, in
particular through measures designed to contain and enable satisfactory
disposal of spilled or waste fuel and lubricants. The project will also
contain measures to eliminate or reduce identified environmental
problems.
10. Social Aspects. The partial double-tracking of the section of line
between Cikampek and Padalarang will affect 6 households whose dwellings
have been constructed on posted land owned by GOI. All those affected
signed yearly rental agreements with Perumka under which they agree to
move when the land is required in exchange for a nominal rental payment.
There are no squatters. Perumka has prepared a draft resettlement
action plan (RAP) in accordance with World Bank policy on resettlement.
For purposes of safety, implementation of the double-tracking will also
require the acquisition of narrow (+/- 2 meters) strips of land along
some short rural sections of the track. The requirement is for 53
pieces of land totaling 1.6 ha. No displacement is involved. The costs
of Rp 1.8 billion associated with the RAP and land acquisition are
included in the project cost estimates. Implementation will be monitored
independently with quarterly reports provided to Perumka and the Bank.
11. Program Objective Categories/Poverty Category. The project will
contribute to the objective of economic management by targeting
institutional and policy reform. Secondary objectives are:
environmentally sustainable development, because transport by rail as
opposed to road brings about positive environmental effects, and because
the project will develop approaches to addressing environmental impacts
of capacity expansion investment and of pollutants from workshops and
depots; and private sector development, through establishment of
framework and new approaches for private participation in rail. This
project is not a poverty targeted intervention.
12. Project Sustainability. The components of the project are aimed at
improving the long term economic and financial viability of the railway.
The policy component, by focusing on organizational restructuring,
deregulation of tariffs and services and the establishment of a Public
- 3-



Service Obligation mechanism would enhance commercial and financial
viability and ultimately eliminate the dependence of the railway on
government. The investment for capacity expansion, the track
maintenance and rehabilitation program, and the operational improvements
should improve service and lower costs which are essential for
sustainable railway transport.
13. Benefits. The policy reform and institutional development
components will provide the railway with a modern enabling institutional
environment, lay the foundations for effective private participation and
establish management arrangements and technical skills conducive to
greater efficiency. This will contribute directly to the delivery of
better services in terms of reliability, frequency of trains, safety and
affordability. In addition, these components are critical for enabling
the railways to carry the envisaged volumes of traffic, play its proper
role in the transport system and reduce its dependence on the government
budget through private sector financing of investments.
14. The three investment components yield an overall ERR of 20.9%. The
Jakarta-Bandung corridor development component comprises only those
investments which are economically viable. The without-project case
assumes a minimum amount of investment in track and rolling stock
required to sustain the present situation. Using a 'conventional'
evaluation approach the economic rate of return is estimated at 12.3%.
This evaluation, however, does not take into account difficult to value
environmental, social and quality of service benefits such as safety.
If these aspects are considered the rate of return increases to 15%.
The financial rate of return is estimated at 11%. If due consideration
is given to the capacity constraints which will eventually surface on
the road system in this corridor which connects urban agglomerations
totaling some 20 million people, this investment is well justified and
should enable the railway to demonstrate its capability to offer
competitive services with road in an improved policy and institutional
environment. Benefits will also accrue from improved workshop operation
procedures which will better protect the environment. Modern track
maintenance and upgrading techniques will significantly extend the
expected life of the track, thus reducing track rehabilitation and
investment costs. In addition, it will also generate savings in train
operating costs as a result of reductions in fuel consumption and in
locomotive and rolling stock maintenance. The estimated rate of return
is 35%. Finally, the introduction of unit exchange maintenance
procedures will improve locomotive and rolling stock reliability and
availability, which will in turn lead to better utilization of the
equipment and generate savings in locomotive and rolling stock
investment and maintenance. The rate of return is estimated at 26%.
15. Risks. First, as can be expected when policy reform is being
implemented, resistance to the proposed reforms may develop. This risk
is recognized by those in GOI who are strongly committed to continuing
the reform process. An Inter-Agency Coordination Committee has been
established within GOI to guide the various actors through the reform
process. Second, implementation of the investment components may suffer
delays because of the need to work within short time "windows" dictated
by the frequency of train services. To mitigate this risk, a
professional and integrated project management would be established for
-4 -



the Jakarta-Bandung corridor development and Java track upgrading
components. Third, the risk that external forces beyond the control of
Perumka's management might inhibit sound capital investments and prudent
management of the assets. This risk will be managed by fostering a
clear and transparent governance structure and decision framework
related to investment and financing through agreements on the annual
updating and review of the investment program and the railways'
financial projections.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 27, 1996.
- 5 -



