Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15646-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
October 17, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1996)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00             =        Rp. 2,330
Rp. I million      =         $442
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia   April I - March 31
Perumka                 .January I - December 3 1
TERMS AND ACRONYMS USED
APBN                         Central Government Annual Development Budget
BAPPENAS                     National Development Planning Agency
BOT                          Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS                          Country Assistance Strategy
CTC                          Centralized Traffic Control
CWR                          Continuous Welded Rail
DGLC                         Directorate General of Land Communications
GBHN                         State Development Policy Giuidelines
GOI                          Government of Indoniesia
IACC                         Inter-Agency Coordination Committee
ICB                          International Competitive Bidding
JABOTABEK                    Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region
LTDP Study                   Land Transport Developmeint Program Stuidy
Mgt                          Million Gross Ton
MOC                          Ministry of Communications
MOF                          Ministry of Finance
MPW                          Ministry of Public Works
NCB                          National Competitive Bidding (formerly LCB or Local Competitive Bidding)
NPV                          Net Present Value
O&M                          Operations & Maintenance
Persero                      State-Owiled Limited Liability Company (PT)
Perum ka                     Railway State Enterprise
PiP                          Project Implementation Plan
PIU                          Project Implementationi Units
PJKA                         Railway Departmental Agency
PMUP                         Project Management Unit Perumka
PSO                          Public Service Obligatioln
Repelita                     Indonesian National Five Year Development Plan
RTF                          Restructuring Task Force
SBD                          Standard Bidding Documents
SOE                          Statemenit of Expenditure or State-Owned Enterprise
TEU                          Containier - Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit
VAT                          Value-Added Tax



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Indonesia
Implementing                State Railway Corporation (Perumka)
Agencies:                   Ministry of Communications
Poverty:                    Not Applicable
Amount:                     US$105.0 million
Terms:                      Payable in twenty years including five years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:             Standard
Onlending Terms:            From the loan proceeds, US$ 19.8 million equivalent will be onlent
by GOI to Perumka for 20 years; the subsidiary loan will be
denominated in equivalent US dollars and the on-lending rate will
be under the same terms as the Bank's loan plus 0.5 percent per
annum. Perumka will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:             See Table 4-2
Economic Rate of            20.9%
Return:
MOP:                        P-6939-IND
Maps:                       IBRD 27873, IBRD 27874
Project ID No.:             ID-PE-4026
Regional Vice President: Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Acting), EAP
Director:             Ms. Marianne Haug, EA3
Division Chief:       Mr. Anuparn Khanna, EA31N
Staff:                Mr. Joris Van der Ven, Sr. Transport Economist
EA31N






REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  ECONOMIC  AND  SECTOR  SETTING  ......................................................... I
A. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......................................................... I
B.  TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL, POLICY AND LEGAL SETTING  ................................................... 3
2.  PAST BANK  INVOLVEMENT AND  LESSONS LEARNED  ....................................................... 6
A.  PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT ......................................................... 6
B.  MAIN LESSONS LEARNED  .......................................................... 7
C.  BANK SECTOR STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ............................................... 8
3.  THE RAILWAY  SUBSECTOR  ......................................................... 9
A. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND REGULATION  .....................                               ..................................... 9
B.  RAILWAY NETWORKS, ASSETS AND TRAFFICS ................                              .......................................... I I
C.  OPERATIONS .......................................................... 1 4
D.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS  .......................................................... 15
E.  SUBSECTOR INVESTMENT PLANNING .......................................................... 17
F.  PERUMKA CORPORATE PLANNING ......................................................... 19
G.  PRIVATE PARTICIPATION  ......................................................... 20
H. KEY ISSUES  .......................................................... 20
1.   THE GOVERNMENT'S RESTRUCTURING AGENDA  .................                              ........................................ 23
4. THE PROJECT
A.  OBJECTIVES ......................................................... 27
B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ......................................................... 27
C.  LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT  ......................................................... 33
D.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ......................................................... 34
E.  COST ESTIMATES ......................................................... 34
F.  FINANCING PLAN ......................................................... 35
G.  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ......................................................... 36
H.  DISBURSEMENT ......................................................... 37
1.  IMPLEMENTATION  ......................................................... 38
J.   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION  ......................................................... 39
K.  AUDITING  ......................................................... 40
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................................                                                                     41
A.  BENEFITS, BENEFICIARIES AND FISCAL IMPACT  ..................................... 41
B.  JAKARTA-BANDUNG CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENT ..................................... 42
C. TRACK MAINTENANCE SYSTEM                                             ..................................... 44
D.  LOCOMOTIVE UNIT EXCHANGE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM  ...................................... ................... 44
E.  RISKS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ..................................................                                            45
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION  .......................................................... 47
A.  INTRODUCTION  .......................................................... 47
B.  PERUMKA'S FINANCIAL FORECAST UNDER THE NEW  POLICY FRAMEWORK  ..................                                ................... 47
C.  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS .......................................................... 49
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  ........................................................ 52



TABLES, FIGURES AND BOXES
TABLE 3-1:  SUMMARY OF PERUMKA'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1991-1995 .............. ..................... 16
TABLE 4-1   PROJECT COST SUMMARY ............................................................. 35
TABLE 4-2:  FINANCING PLAN (US$ MILLION) ................     ............................................. 36
TABLE 4-3:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ MILLION) ............................................................. 36
TABLE 4-4:  ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS ...............      .............................................. 38
TABLE 5-1: NET PRESENT VALUES AND ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURNS ........... .................. 42
TABLE 5-2:  RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ...................  .......................................... 46
TABLE 6-1:  SUMMARY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND INDICATORS ..................................................... 48
TABLE 6-2:  FLOW OF FUNDS BETWEEN GOI AND PERUMKA ............................................................. 49
TABLE 6-3:  SENSITIVITY ANALYSES ............................................................. 50
FIGURE 1-1: INTERURBAN FREIGHT AND PASSENGER MOVEMENTS (JAVA + SUMATRA) .I
FIGURE 3-1; REVENUE SHARES BY REGION AND TRAFFIC CATEGORY .12
FIGURE 3-2: TRAFFIC GROWTH BY REGION AND TRAFFIC CATEGORY .13
BOx 4-1:  DESCRIPTION OF JAKARTA-BANDUNG CORRIDOR .29
ANNEXES
3.1  PERUMKA ORGANIZATION CHART
3.2  RAILWAY TRAFFIC, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL INDICATORS 1985/86-1995
3.3  PERFORMANCE AND COMPARATIVE STATISTICS
3.4  INVESTMENT PLAN
3.5  GOALS AND POLICIES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RAILWAY TRANSPORT SUB-SECTOR
3.6  ACTION PROGRAM FOR RAILWAY SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
3.7  PUBLIC/COMMUNITY SERVICE OBLIGATIONS
4.1   ON TIME PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM WITH UNIT EXCHANGE
4.2  CONSULTANCY SERVICES
4.3  PROJECT COST
4.4  FINANCING PLAN
4.5  ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
4.6  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.7  KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
4.8  SUPERVISION PLAN
5.1  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
6.1  FINANCIAL EVALUATION
8.1  DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
This project was prepared by a team consisting of P. Anderson (Sr. Railway Specialist), D. Bullock (Railway
Specialist, Consultant), A. Byl (Task Manager until November 1995), S. Guggenheim (Sr. Social Scientist) D.
Hawes (Transport Specialist), D. Liu (Economist), M. Rasheed (Financial Analyst), R. Scouller (Operations Officer,
from April-September 1996), J. Van der Ven (Sr. Transport Economist, Task Manager from November 1995) and
T. Walton (Sr. Environmental Specialist). Peer Reviewers are: L. Thompson (Sr. Railway Advisor, TWUTD) and
H. Deboeck (Sr. Financial Analyst, EA2TP). Ms. Marianne Haug and Mr. Anupam Khanna, the Director and
Division Chief respectively, have endorsed this project.



CHAPTER 1
ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING
A.  THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1   Economic and Sector Setting. Indonesia, the world's largest archipelagic nation, extends
some 5,000km across the equator. It comprises several thousand islands, the largest of which are
Java, Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya. The country is endowed with considerable
natural resources. Until the early 1970s agriculture and forestry constituted the mainstay of the
economy and were the main source of foreign exchange. Since the 1980s the Government has
successfully implemented policies aimed at developing and broadening the manufacturing base of
the economy.
1.2   The distribution of population is uneven and is mainly concentrated on Java which accounts
for 59% of the population on 7% of the land area. Economic activity is largely determined by the
differing factor endowments of the islands. Mining activities and oil production are concentrated on
Sumatra and Kalimantan. Food production and manufacturing are located predominantly on Java.
The country's transport system and transport flows have been shaped by the economic resource base
of the islands and the distribution of population.
1.3    All transport modes - road, rail, coastal shipping, civil aviation and inland waterways - play a
role in Indonesia's transport system. Overall, the modes tend to complement one another, with each
serving specific market needs. Java and Sumatra are the only islands that feature rail transport and
only in Java and in a few other transport corridors on other islands is there intermodal competition.
Java also has the most highly developed and best integrated transport system and is also the island
where elimination of capacity constraints and congestion are becoming key concerns.
1.4    While sea transport is moving large quantities of bulk oil and coals carried on own account
by the oil and coal industry, general cargo movements by sea are comparatively small. Thus, if sea
transport is ignored, road is by far the dominant land transport mode, accounting for some 93% of all
land transport on the islands of Java and Sumatra.  Interurban passenger transport is also
predominantly by road accounting for 93% of total passenger transport on Java and Sumatra (See
Figure 1-1).
Figure 1-1: Interurban Freight and Passenger Movements (Java + Sumatra)
Freight                                   Passenger
Sea: Gen               l
Cargo                                   Air
6%                                     2%
Rail
Road                   5%
41 %
Road
93% 0
I Sea: Bulk
50%
ail
_%



- 2 -
1.5    Economic and Transport Sector Performance and Challenges. Over the past ten years,
the Indonesian economy has grown at more than 6% per annum. Non-oil manufacturing has
provided the engine of growth with an average annual growth rate of 11.5% per annum. In the
process the share of manufacturing in GDP increased from 14.6% in 1984 to 23.9% in 1994, while
that of agriculture declined from 22.7% to 17.4% over the same period. This strong performance in
economic activity was accompanied by rapid growth in transport, which increased by about 7% per
annum. Under the Sixth Five Year Development Plan (FYs 1994-95/1998-99) and beyond, GDP is
targeted to continue to grow at a rapid pace, exceeding 7% per annum. Growth in demand for
transport would continue to be at least 7% per annum and is expected to be particularly rapid in the
industrializing areas.
1.6   In broad terms, the transport system has been able to meet the rapid growth in transport
demand with road playing the major role. The two main reasons for this performance were: (i) that
GOI, in its successive five-year plans, consistently devoted considerable resources for transport and
for road improvement in particular; and (ii) that initially as new roads were being built or upgraded
the road system had considerable spare capacity.  Despite these achievements, many transport
corridors are increasingly congested as spare capacity has been exhausted. This is affecting both
road and rail transport and is presenting the sector with the challenge of creating major new capacity
on critical parts of the network within a relatively short period of five to ten years. However, in
contrast to the majority of the traditional upgrading and rehabilitation investments which can be
prepared and implemented within a short time period, the new capacity expansion investments in
both road and rail require much longer preparation times owing to the time needed for detailed
planning studies, for dealing with environmental impacts and acquiring the necessary right-of-way.
1.7   For the short to medium term, road transport, owing to its greater efficiency and flexibility,
will need to provide most of the additional capacity to meet the continuing rapid growth in overall
transport demand. While there is already an extensive rail network on Java, the development and
quality of rail services has been impeded by a policy and institutional environment that has provided
more opportunities and flexibility for road transport and inhibited efficiency and innovation in
railway operations. This in turn has constrained rail investment, with the consequence that many
sections of the predominantly single track network are now operated at capacity while many
passenger services are achieving load factors far above 100%. Vigorous implementation of
appropriate sectoral policies, in particular policies aimed at setting the modes on an equal footing
regarding infrastructure investment and cost recovery hardly change the relative market shares of
road, rail and coastal shipping in the near term because of the time needed to fully implement the
policies and the long lead times - on the order of five to ten years - before policy changes and new
investments will translate into noteworthy shifts in market shares.
1.8   Future Role of Rail. In the longer term, however, rail has the potential to play a much
expanded role in meeting the inter-city passenger transport needs of Java.  The island has a
population which exceeds 120 million, at 840 persons per sq. km the highest population density in
the world, a low level of motorization which is increasing rapidly, and a geography and patterns of
urbanization and industrial development which define high density transport corridors that are well
suited to efficient passenger railway operation.
1.9    Given these geographic and population features, continued economic growth and the
accompanying rise in demand for passenger transport, in the longer term sustainable growth on Java
will hinge on this potential role being fully exploited. Without further development of the railways
the rapid growth in inter-city passenger travel on Java would have to be met entirely by road



- 3 -
transport which would not be sustainable as it would cause unacceptable environmental and social
impacts. Serious capacity constraints are already occurring on the road network even though vehicle
ownership at 23 vehicles per 1000 persons is only a fraction of that in countries such as Japan (510
vehicles per 1000) and South Korea (142 vehicles per 1000) with similar geography but lower
population densities. Road transport activity is already a major contributor to worsening air
pollution in Java, while a high road traffic accident rate is causing considerable human and material
losses. Moreover, expansion of the road network's capacity is already necessitating the loss of
valuable agricultural land and, in the vicinity of major cities, the displacement of large numbers of
people.
1.10  If Java were to follow a pattern of transport system development based on a continuing
heavy reliance on road and corresponding vehicle ownership levels comparable to those observed in
more industrialized countries, i.e. on the order of 500 vehicles per 1000 persons at GDP per capita
levels greater than, say US$ 20,000, the vehicle population on Java would rise to be in excess of 60
million. This would not be a feasible transport system for an economic space with the characteristics
of Java. This is illustrated for example, by the fact that the road space needed to just park - let alone
drive - these vehicles would amount to a total of 240.000 lane km or about three times the current
length of the classified network on Java. This parking space would be equivalent to 240 lanes of
roads stretching all the way 1000 km from east to west across Java, or almost a km wide band of
road space across Java. Clearly, an efficient railway system which plays a much greater role in the
overall transport system, comparable as a minimum to the role played by rail in Japan, where public
transport accounts for some 35% of passenger travel will, therefore, be a crucial element of
sustainable transport on Java.
1.11  On Sumatra, with a population density one-tenth of Java's and an economy that is heavily
dependent on primary industry, rail's potential role within the transport system is quite different.
The main drivers for its development are major mining projects, such as the planned expansion of
the Bukit Asam coal mine, and other large-scale industrial projects (e.g., cement) for which rail
transport can have an economic role. Expansion of the three Sumatra railway systems should,
therefore, depend on the phasing of such projects rather than on the growth of passenger and freight
traffic in general. The required investments should be evaluated and justified as an integral part of
these projects on a commercial basis.
B. TRANSPORT SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL, POLICY AND LEGAL SETTING
1.12  Institutions. The principal Government of Indonesia (GOI) agencies involved in shaping
the development and regulating the functioning of the transport sector are:
*  the Ministry of Communications (MOC), which is responsible for sector policy and
strategy formulation, for the technical and economic regulation of land, sea, and air
transport, for the provision and management of some transport infrastructure (notably small
ports and airports), and for the technical guidance and supervision of 17 state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) including Perumka, the state railway corporation;
*  the Ministry of Publics Works (MPW), which has primary responsibility for the planning
and management of the public road network, and which is also responsible for the technical
guidance and supervision of several SOEs including PT Jasa Marga, the state toll road
company;



- 4 -
* Bappenas, the National Development Planning Agency, which has primary responsibility
for formulating the country's five-year development plans (Repelita) and, in conjunction
with the Ministry of Finance. for determining the allocation of expenditures under the State
Development Budget;
*  the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which, in addition to its responsibilities for shaping the
State Routine and Development Budgets, also represents GOI's interests as owner of the
state owned enterprises (SOEs)'.
1.13   Policy Framework. The basic guidelinles for the development of the transport sector are
contained in the Outline of State Goals and Policies (Garis-Garis Besar HalLian Negara or GBHN).
The GBHN  is formulated by the People's Consultative Assembly at five-yearly intervals and in
status is subordinate only to the Constitution. The GBHN serves as the mandate for the incoming
President and Cabinet and forns the basis for the subsequent Repelita plan, which elaborates targets
and policies and defines development programs for their realization.
1.14   Since the mid-1980s, there have been significant changes in transport sector policies. The
general thrust of these reforms has been to reduce economic regulation and the extent of government
interventions in the functioning of transport markets, and to enable and promote increased private
participation in the provision of transport services and infrastructure. Attention focused initially on
the maritime transport subsector, where higih costs, poor services and long delays were crippling
domestic and international trade. Two major deregulation packages - known as Inpres 4/1985 and
Paknov 1988 - redefined the role of'government and resulted respectively in dramatic improvements
in port management and productivity and in the effticiency and quality of shippilig services.
1.1 5   Reforms in the other transport subsectors have been less dramatic - in part because the
problems were less severe and less amenable to solution by radical measures - and commenced
somewhat later. In the road subsector, where economic regulation of the industry was already
relatively light, the primary focus has been on establishing appropriate road use regulations,
upgrading enforcement, strengthening the planning and implementation of road infrastructure works,
improving safety and reducing vehicle overloading, and increasing the recovery of infrastructure
costs from road users. In the civil aviation subsector, the reforms to date hiave resulted in increased
and more effective private competition to the two state-owned airlines. In the railway subsector, the
initial reforms included converting the state railway agency, PJKA, into a public corporation
(Perumka), relaxing government controls over fare and rate setting, and enabling increased private
participation.
1.1 6   Private Sector Participation. In parallel with the above sector-specific reforms, GOI has
been moving to increase private participation in SOEs, with the twin aims of improving efficiency
and mobilizing the financial and technical resources required for their future growth. This is being
accomplished through the partial divestiture of enterprises that have already attained the status of
limited liability shareholder companies,2 and through the promotion of joint ventures with private
MOF has recently established a separate Directorate General of State Enterprise Development. The Minister
of Finance also assigns certain of his SOE oversight responsibilities to the ministers responsible for technical
oversight.
There are now two forms of state enterprise in Indonesia, namely Persero and Perum. The Persero form is
based on the same legal code as private limited liability (PT) companies, and there is no legal restriction on
GOI divesting shares to the public. The Perum is based on a separate legal code that applies only to state



partners.  In recent years, there have been four partial divestitures, all involving industrial and
telecommunications enterprises. The fields of business of these four enterprises-PT Semen Gresik
(cement), PT Timah (tin mining), PT Indosat (international telecommunications), and PT Telkom
(domestic telecommunications)-are characterized by their not involving extensive loss-making
'social" missions.
1.17   GOI is now planning the phased partial divestiture of SOEs in other sectors, and MOF is
evaluating and prioritizing the more than 180 candidate enterprises. The pace of divestitures will be
determined by factors including the perceived institutional capacity of the GOI agencies concerned
and the absorptive capacities of the domestic and overseas share markets, while the choice of
enterprises will be influenced by their financial performance and by the nature and extent of their
"social" missions.' It is currently envisaged that there will be around three simultaneous listings on
international and domestic each year tor the next few years. PT Garuda Indonesia Airlines and PT
Jasa Marga have been tentativelv identified as the first priorities for listings among the transport
sector enterprises.
1.18   Concerted efforts are also being made to secure private participation  in infrastructure
provision through build-operate-transfer (BOT) and similar concession agreements between private
consortia and the concerned SOEs.  While these initiatives have attracted considerable private
interest, lack of clarity in sector strategies and lack of transparency in solicitation and negotiation
procedures has resulted in progress being slow and--in at least some instances--in costs being
unnecessarily high. Only a few major schemes involving foreign commercial financing have so far
achieved--or come close to--financial closure, with the electric power and telecommunications
sectors being at the forefront. In the transport sector. initiatives are most advanced with respect to
toll roads.  One toll road concessioni involvinig foreign commercial financing is now  nearing
financial closure, albeit after more thani seven years of planning and negotiation.
1.1 9   Legal Framework.  The basic legal framework for the sector comprises four modal
transport laws concerning respectively railways, road traffic and transport, civil aviation, and
maritime transport. These were enacted in 1 992 to replace old regulations that mostly dated back to
the I 920s and 1 930s. These ftour new laws, wlhich complement a law on road infrastructure enacted
in 1980, provide a more explicit legal basis for the policy reforms outlined above.  They are
designed to be implemented by government regulations (GRs) and subordinate ministerial decrees, a
process which is almost completed for the road traffic and transport law. For the other modes,
including rail, the planned GRs have now been drafted by MOC and are being discussed with other
concerned agencies.
owned enterprises, and that does not provide for ownership of equitv to be divisible into shares. The Persero
form is the more autonomous, and is used for those enterprises that are required to be profit-oriented. The
Perum forn is used for enterprises that are assigned significant social missions and that are required to cover
costs but not necessarily to seek profits. A third and still less autonomous form, the Perjan or departmental
agency, ceased to exist following the transformation of the railway enterprise, PJKA (PerJan Kereta Api), into
Perumka (Perum Kereta Api).
Article 33 of the Constitution states that branches of production that are important for the State and that affect
the lives of most people shall be controlled by the State. This article explains the extensive state participation
in sectors such as transport and provides a basis for assigning social missions to SOEs.






CHAPTER 2
PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1    The Bank has been substantially involved in Indonesia's transport sector during the past two
decades. Projects financed include four in the maritime sector (two for shipping and two for ports),
two fertilizer distribution projects, fifteen roads projects and two railway projects. At present four
roads projects are under implementation. Implementation Completion Reports prepared in recent
years include those for the Highway Betterment Project (Ln. 2404-IND), the Highway Maintenance
and Betterment Project (Ln. 2717-IND), the Second Rural Roads Development Project (Ln. 2881-
IND), the Railway Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2891 -IND) and the Highway Sector Project (In.
31 33-IND). The last report by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) was a combined audit
report for the Highway Betterment and the Highway Maintenance and Betterment Projects.
2.2    The thrust of Bank lending has been in the road sector which is the dominant mode, and has
been directed at three broad objectives: (i) improving the quality of the road network through
maintenance, rehabilitation, improvements (e.g. minor widening) and new road construction; (ii)
developing the capability of the road agencies at central and regional level through technical support
and training and through improvements in planning and programming systems, in road construction
technologies, and in procedures for preparing, implementing and monitoring road works; and (iii)
improving key land transport sector policies and strengthening the capacity for transport and road
sector policy formulation and implementation. The latter is aimed at ensuring that the different
modes can play their proper role in the transport system.
2.3    Railway Projects.  In the railway sector Bank involvement has been less sustained, with
only two projects: the First Railway Project (1974) and the Railway Technical Assistance Project
(1987). The first project was designed to arrest the decline in the railway's share in land transport
and to increase its capacity and efficiency through a program of rehabilitation and modernization,
including a substantial amount of technical assistance and practical training. The project made a
valuable contribution and succeeded in its immediate objectives but had limited impact in improving
the institutional set-up. While passenger traffic increased, low tariffs resulted in continued losses
and the financial situation of the railway did not improve. The second project was more successful.
It aimed at beginning to restructure the railway and at strengthening management in a broad range of
areas including: information systems, costing, inventory control, train scheduling, rationalization of
mechanical and track maintenance, container operations and intermodal traffic. The project was
effective in providing practical training in modern railway management practices for a group of
middle-managers from whom many of the current top-level managers have been drawn.
2.4   Involvement in State Enterprises.  The Bank has also had extensive involvement with
state  enterprises  in  the  energy  and  telecommunications  sectors.   Recent energy  and
telecommunications projects have aimed at sectoral and institutional restructuring, at creating the
conditions for effective private sector entry and participation and at establishing and improving the
regulatory structures. These projects have been instrumental in bringing about needed reforms as



- 7 -
evidenced by the Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project of 1995 which supported
sectoral legal and regulatory reform and expanded private participation.
B. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
2.5    The main lessons leamed from the two railway projects in Indonesia are that turning around
a railway cannot be achieved on a piecemeal basis and requires addressing the many problems that
affect its performance.   Efforts should not only cover institutional changes, operational
improvements, and tariff revisions, but should be complemented by priority investments in track and
rolling stock. Furthermore, assuring the railway's financial viability requires setting in place robust
arrangements for governing the financial relationship between the railway and government and for
compensating the railway for public service obligations imposed on it by government.
2.6    An OED review in 1993 of Bank railway lending found that implementation of railway
projects generally fell short of expectations. The principal reasons for the shortcomings were: (i)
management's lack of sufficient authority over rates and other key matters; (ii) lack of a commercial
approach to the transport market; (iii) resistance to change in railway management, labor unions, and
government institutions; (iv) inefficient operations; (v) a lack of realism in forecasting traffic and
financial performance; (vi) reluctance by the Bank to penalize failure to comply with loan
covenants; and (viii) excessive reliance on loan covenants to achieve goals. The review emphasized
the need to reshape the railway as an institution, through disengagement from the government,
greater managerial autonomy and private participation in operations and management.
2.7    A review of the evolution of the World Bank's railway lending and of the railway
restructuring experience worldwide conducted in 1994 by the Transport Water and Urban
Development Department (TWUTD) concluded that change is possible and that the Bank can be
instrumental in the reform process. A key lesson is the need for a strong commitment to reform at
the highest levels of Government and the railway enterprise. Other important lessons from railway
reform in developed countries were that: (i) the functions of the railway need to be clarified and
divided into market-driven and socially driven (public service obligations) components; (ii) the
railway should be organized in profit centers along its lines of business; (iii) the railway needs
effective incentives and clear authority; (iv) there must be appropriate changes in regulation and
other government intervention; (v) barriers to change, such as redundant labor, excessive debt,
uneconomic trackage, or unsustainable retirement obligations, need to be removed; (vi) civil service
restrictions should be eased or lifted; (vii) reforms proceed better when a professional outside party
assists in the analysis and the development of proposals. Additional lessons from recent railway
reform efforts in developing countries are that: (i) adequate resources for planning and management
are essential as the administrative capability of the government can be overwhelmed by the many
complex railway restructuring issues; (ii) the Bank can not impose restructuring through loan
conditionality; and (iii) the western management model of assigning clear authority and
responsibility combined with delegation of decisions to the lowest feasible level may not be
appropriate in all cases.



- 8 -
C. BANK SECTOR STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.8    Bank Strategy. In transport the Bank's strategy is to assist GOI in developing an efficient
transport system capable of meeting the challenges of a rapidly growing economy, through: (i)
policy and institutional reforms which ensure that the transport modes play their proper role and with
effective private participation; (ii) rationalization of the sectoral investment programs and
improvements in operations; and (iii) the introduction of improved planning, programming and
implementation procedures in the context of projects financing a part of the sector investment
programs on a programmatic basis or by way of selective investments.
2.9    With regard to SOEs in key sectors of the Indonesian economy the Bank's strategy has
focussed on sectoral institutional and regulatory reform with the emphasis on privatization issues in
recent years. In the power and telecommunications sectors, a main objective is to establish an
improved regulatory framework for private sector participation, inter alia, by developing systems
and mechanisms for evaluating, regulating and managing entry of the private sector.
2.10   Rationale for Bank Involvement.  GOI is strongly committed to rail transport playing a
much expanded and more efficient role in the intercity transport system and to reducing its own
financing of the subsector's development. The former commitment is reflected in the amounts that it
plans to invest in the subsector during Repelita VI. The latter is evidenced by the compressed
timetable that it has adopted for the subsector restructuring agenda and the strong emphasis on
increased private participation.
2.11   GOI has asked the Bank to assist it with the reform of the sector. It considers the Bank to be
best equipped to provide such support given its considerable international experience with railway
restructuring and privatization, its extensive past and ongoing involvement in Indonesia's transport
sector, and its having supported the first phase of railway subsector restructuring through the
Railway Technical Assistance Project. The government, particularly Bappenas, and other lending
agencies also expect the Bank to assist in rationalizing the railway investment program.
2.12   The proposed project is an integral part of the Bank's support for land transport
infrastructure and is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was last
discussed on March 21, 1995, and the Progress Report discussed on June 4, 1996, which emphasize
continued lending for infrastructure development and the need to maintain a substantial presence in
land transport to consolidate gains in operational efficiency and sector management.  A key
objective of railway sector lending is the establishment of an improved regulatory framework for
private sector participation.






CHAPTER 3
THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
A. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND REGULATION
3.1    Background. Prior to 1991, the Indonesian state railways were managed as a departmental
agency (Perjan) of MOC. Although classed as a state-owned enterprise, PJKA was not a separate
legal entity and its mission was considered to be primarily social. Its management was accorded
very limited autonomy, its budget formed part of MOC's budget, its annual targets were defined
primarily in terms of production rather than financial performance, and the tariffs for most services
were regulated at levels well below long-run variable cost.
3.2    During the latter years of Repelita IV (1984/85-1988/89), GOI recognized that fundamental
changes would be needed to enable rail transport to play its proper role in an efficient and
competitive transport system. Preparations for corporatization and commercialization commenced
and, with effect from January 1991, PJKA was transformed into Perumka.4 As a Perum enterprise,
Perumka is required to earn revenues sufficient at least to cover its costs.  In making the
transformation, GOI retained ownership of the "main railway infrastructure" - principally the track
and signals and the land on which they stand - while Perumka was assigned ownership of the
rolling stock, stations, and other assets, including valuable inner city land. Perumka was charged
with operating freight and passenger railway services, and also maintains and operates the main
railway infrastructure on behalf of GOI.5
3.3   This institutional structure is reflected in the recently enacted railway law, Law 13/92, which
defines the respective roles and responsibilities of government and state and private enterprises
broadly as follows:
a)  responsibility for guiding and supervising the development of railway transportation, and for
providing, maintaining and operating the main railway infrastructure is vested in GOI;
b)  responsibility for operating railway services is vested in a railway management entity (or
entities), which must be a state-owned enterprise;
c)  responsibility for developing, maintaining and operating the main railway infrastructure may be
delegated by GOI to a state-owned enterprise; and
d)  private entities may participate in railway-related activities by entering into cooperative
arrangements with the management entity.
4 The transformation was effected by Government Regulation 57 of 1990 (GR 57/90).
GOI retained ownership of the main infrastructure so as to place rail transport on a similar footing to road
transport, and to avoid Perumka's having to pay tax on the land upon which the track is laid. Responsibility
for main infrastructure maintenance and operation is implicitly delegated to Perumka by Minister of
Communications Decree 8 of 1991, although this decree does not stipulate which agency should be responsible
for the associated costs.



- 10-
There are some ambiguities in the Law's definitions and provisions, and also some inconsistencies
between these and the definitions and provisions of GR 57/90. These include differing definitions of
which assets are encompassed in the main railway infrastructure, and imprecise delineation of
responsibility for associated maintenance and operation costs.
3.4   As a Perum  enterprise, Perumka is legally permitted to borrow from domestic financial
institutions, to issue bonds, and to enter into cooperative agreements (based on revenue sharing) with
private entities. It is not, however, permitted to establish subsidiaries or to own shares in a joint
venture company.
3.5    Organization and Lines of Reporting. Perumka's basic internal organization structure and
lines of reporting to GOI are defined in GR 57/90 and reflect the provisions of the various laws and
6
regulations governing state-owned enterprises. The corporation, which is headquartered at Bandung
in West Java, is managed by a Board of Directors, comprising a Chief Director and four Directors.
The latter four are responsible for the directorates of Finance, Engineering, Operations, and
Personnel and Administration. Also reporting to the Chief Director are the heads of three other
headquarters units - Planning, Research and Development, Education and Training, and Internal
Audit - together with the heads of the Java Commercial Region (Wilayah Usaha) and the three
Sumatra Operating Regions (Wilayah). A chart summarizing Perumka's current organizational
structure is contained in Annex 3.1.
3.6   The Minister of Communications is charged with providing guidance to the Board of Directors
in the areas of general policy and planning, and with supervising its implementation. The Minister is
assisted in this task by a Board of Supervisors, comprising a Chairman plus up to four other
members, which reports through the Director General of Land Communications.' The principal
tasks of the Board of Supervisors are to evaluate Perumka's proposed annual workplan and budget,
and to monitor their implementation, and to identify where performance needs to be improved. The
Board of Supervisors is also required to report regularly to the Minister of Finance on matters
pertaining to Perumka's financial performance. The Perumka directors also communicate directly
with MOC's Secretariat General and DGLC on planning matters, and with MOF and Bappenas on
investment financing and budgeting matters.
3.7   Both the Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors are appointed by the President on the
recommendation of the Minister of Communications, which is required to be made in consultation
with the Minister of Finance. The members of the Board of Supervisors are required to be
government officials, with at least one representative each from the Ministries of Communications
and Finance.
3.8   Regulation. Pending the promulgation of the implementing regulations for Law 13/92 (para
1.19), Perumka continues to be subject to numerous regulations issued under the umbrella of the
6   These most important of these are: Government Regulation 57 of 1990, which established Perumka; Law 13 of
1992 concerning Railways; Law 9 of 1969 concerning State-Owned Enterprises; and Government Regulation
3 of 1983 concerning the Guidance and Supervision of State-owned Enterprises.
The Director General of Land Communications is currently also the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors.



- 11 -
previous law. The main basis for the economic regulation of railway services is contained in GR
57/90 and Minister of Communications Decrees KM 3/90 and KM 8/91.
3.9    Law 13/92 empowers the Minister of Communications to regulate tariffs for certain classes
of passenger service, having regard to the opinion of the Minister of Finance.8  The current
classification of passenger services - Executive, Business, Economy, Urban, and Special (e.g.,
tourism charter) - is stipulated in KM 3/90. Economy and urban services are classified as "non-
commercial", and fares are subject to regulation by the Minister. All other passenger services and
freight services are classified as commercial. This decree also stipulates that the number of seats
provided for Executive, Business, and Special classes may not exceed 40% of total seat capacity.
3.10  In practice. Perumka currently has less autonomy over fare and rate-setting than the
regulations imply. Although empowered to set the fares for Executive and Business class services,
planned increases have been deferred on at least one occasion.9 Moreover, while freight rates are not
subject to regulation, Perumka's main freight customers are SOEs and GOI agencies, some of which
have been able to exert strong pressure for "strategic commodities" to be carried at less-than-
commercial rates.
B.  RAILWAY NETWORKS, ASSETS AND TRAFFIC
3.11  Indonesia has four unconnected railway systems, one on Java and three others on Sumatra.
Their combined length of track in operation is some 5,040 km, of which Java accounts for some
3,700 km. All are 1067 mm (3'6") gauge, and except for short double-track sections in the vicinity
of Jakarta and other major cities, the networks are single-track. Some sections in the greater Jakarta
metropolitan region (JABOTABEK) have been electrified to enable operation of suburban commuter
services by electric railcars.
3.12   Only some 19% of rail in the main tracks of Java is of the heavier weight type; 11% is 54 kg/m
and 8% is 50 kg/m. All this heavier rail has been laid since 1982. The lighter rail is 42 kg/m and 33
kg/m; the former accounts for about 50% of rail in the main tracks of Java and the latter 31%. The
lighter rail is quite old, some of it dates back to 1913 and none has been purchased since the 1970s.
Because the rail has not had sufficient maintenance, much of the older rail is in very poor condition.
Rail ends at the joints are often badly battered, some of which are beyond repair. There are other
defects as well, such as engine burns and corrugation, which should be repaired.
3.13   There are 13 different types of locomotives on Java ranging from 340 hp to 1825 hp. The total
fleet, excluding Jakarta's commuter services, consists of 381 locomotives, 227 of which are diesel
hydraulic and the rest being diesel electric. Except for 20 GE locomotives model CC201 (purchased
8   Law 13/92 stipulates that railway transport is to be developed and managed in the public interest as an integral
part of the national transport system with the goal of serving those passenger and freight traffics for which rail is
superior to other modes, having regard to factors such energy-use efficiency, land-use efficiency, safety, and
pollution.
The limits on seat shares for the higher class services have not been rigidly applied, and Perumka has, for
example, been permitted to operate executive class urban services whose tariffs are not stipulated by the
Minister. More generally, Perumka is now being encouraged to freeze the capacity of its economy services
and to introduce new higher fare "economy plus" services.



- 12-
in 1992) and some 30 Henschel diesel hydraulic models BB303 and BB306 (purchased in 1978 and
1984, respectively), the rest of the fleet on Java is all more than 20 years old. The average fleet age
is approximately 30 years. The combination of ineffective scheduling, operational demand, a lack of
parts and inadequate skills has led to low availability rates (70% for some types) and high failure
rates (some 60 failures per one million kilometers). The taking of components or parts from one
locomotive to install on another is widespread.
3.14 There is a mix of mechanical and modern signaling systems on the main lines. The
mechanical systems were developed some 60 years ago. Maintenance has been reasonable for the
inside equipment, but not for the outside equipment. The condition of the wiring is very bad,
causing difficult operation of levers and confusing and unsafe signals (e.g., signal armns in half
position). The modern systems include the older model DRS60, which was installed in some
stations in the early 70's, and newer ones such as Genesis, MIS 801, VPI/CTC, SSI and
Westrace/CTC. Investments were made in such different systems because of the opportunities
provided under bilateral financing. This has created great difficulties for proper maintenance and
operation because staff must learn different technologies and systems and a large variety of spare parts
is required.
3.15 Perumka's total operating revenues amounted to Rp. 592 billion (about US$262 million)
in 1995 (Annex 6.1, Table 1). It is primarily a passenger railway, with passenger services
accounting for 66% of operating revenues.  In 1995, Perumka as a whole carried 129 million
passengers over an average distance of 121 km and 17 million tons of freight over an average haul of
244 km. Over the period of 1988/89 to 1995, passengers grew at an average rate of 15.7% per year,
and passenger-kilometers grew at 11.8% per year. Over the same period, freight tons increased at an
average rate of 8. 1 % per year and ton-kilometers increased at 9.2% per year.
3.16  Revenue contribution and traffic composition vary significantly among the four railway
systems (Figure 3-1). The Java Railway contributes about 75% of Perumka's total revenues. It is
primarily a passenger railway, with passengers accounting for 83% of its revenues. The South
Sumatra (S.S.) Railway generates some 20% of Perumka's total revenues, of which freight accounts
for 90%. The West Sumatra (W.S.) and North Sumatra (N.S.) railways contribute only 2% and 3%
of Perurnka's total revenues, of which freight accounts for 99% and 60%, respectively.
Figure 3-1: Revenue Shares by Region and Traffic Category
Revenue Shares by Region                    Revenue Shares by Traffic
1994                                        1994
Perumka                       l 100%    Perumka
Java                , 75%             Java             631/0
S. S.    20%
W. S. 2%                                                    -
N. S.    4U/o 
N.S. n 3%
f   Lt  1  0%  o Passenger oFreightl    100%
0%                   100%                          .       -



- 13 -
3.17  The Java Railway's core passenger traffic is intercity, long distance services, such as Jakarta-
Surabaya (820 km) and Jakarta-Yogyakarta (510 kmn), and medium distance services, such as
Jakarta-Bandung (180 km) and Jakarta-Cirebon (200 km). These services carried a total of 25.6
million passengers over an average distance of 380 km in 1994. They achieved a growth rate of
9.0% per year in passenger-kilometers from 1988/89 to 1994 and maintained high seat occupancy
rates, over 80% for executive and business classes and over 100% for many economy classes. The
executive and business classes serving the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor have proved particularly
successful. Competing with road transport, the two classes carry some 2.5 million passengers
annually with high quality services at premium tariffs, enjoying growth rates of 12.1% for the
executive class and 8.4% for the business class from 1987 to 1995. The Java Railway also carries
suburban passenger traffic. This segment has been growing especially fast, at an average rate of
21.2% per year in passenger-kilometers from 1988/89 to 1994 (Figure 3-2). The rapid growth
experienced in the intercity and suburban rail passenger traffic has been driven by the steadily rising
urban population and income and deteriorating road congestion and pollution. As these forces
should remain dominant in the future development, this traffic is expected to continue to grow
strongly.
3.18  The freight traffic moved by the Java Railway consists mostly of petroleum fuel, fertilizer,
cement, coal, and containers, totaling 1.4 billion ton-kilometers in 1994. Some 85% of this traffic is
from state-owned enterprises at less than commercial rates. Due to the short hauls and intense water
and road competition, the rail freight traffic grew only at about 2.3% per year in ton-kilometers over
1988/89 to 1994. While there will still be scope for large volume point-to-point flows, e.g., fertilizer,
cement, etc., the growth potential is limited as privatization and commercial reform proceeds among
an increasing number of state enterprises and as railway freight tariffs move to compensatory levels.
Figure 3-2: Traffic Growth by Region and Traffic Category
Passenger Traffic Annual Growth              Freight Traffic Annual Growth
1988/89-1994                 I              1988/89-1994
Perumka ; i     1 8.7%        2Perumka                          95%
Java         .I0%          21.2%           Java    2.3%
W S.  p o60/35%                            S. S.                         18.2%
N. S.  0  4.8%                             W. S.       4.4%
N. S.  1  .8%
0%     ( Mainline Pass-km   25%
a Local Pass-km                     0%       a Freight Ton-km    20%
3.19 The South Sumatra Railway's dominant traffic is coal, which is moved from the Bukit Asam
mine at Tanjung Enim to Tarahan (for onward shipment to the Suralaya power station on Java) and
to Kertapati (Palembang). Growing at over 20% per year from 1988/89 to 1994, this traffic reached
1.9 billion ton-kilometers in 1994, higher than the total freight traffic moved over the Java railway
and accounting for 48% of the total freight carried by Perumka. There are plans to significantly
expand the capacity of the Suralaya power station during the next decade.



- 14-
3.20  Freight traffic on the other two Sumatra railways, West and North, registered small growth
rates, 4.4% and 1.8%, respectively, per year from 1988/89 to 1994 (Figure 3-2). The West Sumatra
Railway carries mostly coal and cement. Coal is moved from the mines at Ombilin (Parambahan) to
the terminal at Teluk Bayur and to the cement plant at Indarung. Bulk cement is moved from
Indarung to Teluk Bayur. The North Sumatra Railway's main traffic is crude palm oil, most of
which is carried on behalf of several state plantation companies to the tank farm at Belawan port.
The growth potential for these two railways is limited.
C.   OPERATIONS
3.21  As part of project preparation, Perumka's railway operations were studied by consultants.
Key findings include the following:
*     Economic Role of the Railway. Valuable rail transport capacity is being used to meet
demand in markets which are unable and unwilling to pay compensatory prices for rail services.
Thus, money-losing freight traffic on Java consumes nearly half the capacity of the track and the
locomotive fleet.
*     Safety of Operation. Based on field inspections of various track sections, the consultant
found that "parts of the system are not safe." This is partly due to deferred maintenance; the
estimated backlog of track maintenance is Rp.75 billion (US$34 million). But maintenance funds
are not being applied as effectively as they could be.
*     Proper Allocation Between Investment and Maintenance. When Perumka was formed,
the appropriate compensation mechanism for infrastructure use and maintenance was not set up, so
that incentive is lacking for cost effective maintenance of assets to realize their full economic life.
For example, instead of a one-time investment of Rp. 211 billion (US$96 million) in track
rehabilitation, the consultant recommended that Perumka's annual track maintenance budget be
increased by Rp. 50 billion (US$23 million). Rolling stock maintenance also has been underfunded,
leading to uneconomic proposals for rehabilitation of locomotives, for example.
*     Management, Supervision, and  Organization.   Responsibilities, authorities, and
accountabilities of managers and supervisors need to be more clearly defined, and the Java operating
organization needs to be simplified. In addition, extensive changes are required in operating and
maintenance regulations and rules, in investment prioritization, and in marketing. If these changes
do not accompany the proposed reforms at the institutional level and the investments, Perumka will
not be able to handle the anticipated growth in traffic and play an expanded role in the growing
transportation market.
3.22  Perumka's combined operations on Java and South Sumatra have been compared to the
railways of Thailand, Sri Lanka, Austria, and Belgium for 1994 (Annex 3.3). The overall conclusion
of the analysis is that Perumka ranks relatively high in terms of physical measures of asset
utilization. But mainly due to low passenger fares, the revenue earnings of its physical assets are
inadequate and significantly lower than the railways in Austria and Belgium. Perumka's low revenue
relative to its assets is significant since most of the investment and repair cost of track, locomotives,
and multiple unit power cars consists of material that is at least as expensive in Indonesia as it is in
Austria and Belgium. Labor productivity compares more favorably: Perumka's combined annual



- 15 -
passenger and ton kilometers per employee is lower than that of Thailand but significantly better
than that of the other three comparators.
D.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS
3.23 Accounting and Auditing. Until 1990, the railway was a departmental agency (Perjan)
(para 3. 1), with its incomes and expenditures treated as part of the State Income and Expenditure
Budget. As part of its conversion to a Perum, the major part of the railway infrastructure remained
the property of the Government, with Perumka retaining only that part associated with service
buildings (workshops, depots, etc.), housing, facilities such as telecommunications, electricity and
water and the related land. This had two financial impacts on the railway: (i) the introduction of an
annual payment from the Government to Perumka to contribute to the cost of maintaining the
Government-owned infrastructure; and (ii) a large reduction in the infrastructure-related assets and
an associated reduction in the depreciation and interest charges.
3.24  Perumka uses the double-entry accounting system. During the late 1980s a new and
improved accounting system was progressively introduced and in 1990 the fiscal year was changed
from April/March to January/December. The classification of accounts was revised to integrate cost
and financial accounting. As a result costs can be analyzed by type of expenses (material, labor, and
general), by cost center (e.g., locomotive depot) and by operating function (e.g., locomotive
maintenance). Wages are allocated to activities according to data recorded on time-sheets/rosters.
The reporting system has been computerized and the reporting formats have been suitably designed.
The upgraded accounting system follows generally accepted accounting principles and practices.
With financing under the Bank's Railway Technical Assistance Project, a traffic costing system was
introduced and some management/cost accounting is now undertaken. However, the scope and level
of analysis could be improved and this is recognized by Perumka. For example, the costs only
include direct and indirect operating costs and the calculation of depreciation charges should be based
on replacement costs.
3.25  Perumka's accounts are audited annually by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board
of the Government (Badan Rengwas Keerangan dar Pembangunan - BPKP). The auditors are
regarded as independent auditors using generally accepted auditing rules and standards. Perumka's
audited accounts, however, are issued as late as nine months after the end of the fiscal year. This is
too long a delay for management review to enable it to take remedial actions when necessary.
Closing of the books and their auditing need to be accelerated so as to produce the audited report not
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that Perumka 's audited accounts for FY1996 and 97 will be produced by September 30, 1997 and
1998 respectively, andfor subsequent years by June 30 of each year (para 4.51).
3.26  Perumka's Financial Performance. Financial statements for 1991-95 are presented and
evaluated in Annex 6.1, tables I and 2. Key results are summarized in Table 3-1 below.



- 16-
Table 3-1: Summary of Perumka's Financial Performance 1991-1995
(Rp. Billion)
Item                      1991        1992        1993       1994      1995
Operating Revenues .'                   323         393         471        508        592
Operating Expenditures                  33 1        398         469        503       582
Net Operating Revenue (Loss)             (8)         (5)          2          5         11
Total Revenues                           (8)         (4)          0          6         13
Performance Ratios:
Operating Ratio                     102%         101%        100%     99.0%        98%
Current Ratio                          7.8         4.8         7.5        9.5       8.2
Acid Test Ratio                        5.2         3.4         5.5        6.2       5.0
Debt/Equity Ratio                      6.6        12.7        22.3      29.9       35.5
v Operating revenues include GOI's annual contribution of Rp. 22.0 billion for 1991 and Rp. 31.5 billion per year
for 1992 to 1995 for infrastructure maintenance and operation.
3.27 Perumka's financial performance has shown some improvement. Revenues have covered or
come close to covering its recorded operating costs, with revenue increases during the period being
closely matched by cost increases. Consequently, the operating ratio has improved slightly from
102% in 1991 to 98% in 1995. Without further improvement, Perumka would not be able to service
its debt obligations and pay taxes and dividends to the Government. Also, in considering these
results, it must be noted that: (a) GOI's contribution towards the costs of infrastructure maintenance
(which is delegated to Perumka) is inadequate; (b) maintenance of rolling stock has been
underfunded; and (c) Perumka's depreciation charges are based on the historical cost of asset
acquisition.
3.28   The slow improvement in the operating ratio masks some significant changes that have
occurred during the five years since Perumka was established. On the cost side, labor productivity
has increased by 51%,IO due to the combination of traffic growth and reduction in total staff
numbers." However, this has been offset by personnel costs having doubled during the same period
due to a combination of general and specific wage and salary increases. Consequently, labor cost
increased from 31% of working costs in 1991 to 36% in 1995. Despite these increases, the salary
levels for middle and senior level staff remain below those in the private sector. Other costs have
generally increased in line with domestic inflation which has been in the range of 7.5%-10% per
annum over the period.
IC Traffic units (passenger-km + freight ton-km) per staff member has risen from 306,000 in 1991 to 462,000 in
1995.
A reduction in PJKA's staffing was covenanted in the Loan Agreement for the Railway Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2891-IND). OED Report 13914 dated March 6, 1995 discusses the importance and difficulty of
right-sizing the railway labor force.



- 17-
3.29   On the revenue side, Perumka has for various reasons been unable to raise tariffs to levels
that would cover its variable costs computed on a commercial "going concern" basis. The Land
Transport Phase 11 Study (LTDP) in 1992 estimated cost recovery for various categories of traffic
and the findings remain generally valid. Tariffs for economy passenger services covered short-run
avoidable costs but fell short of covering the costs of renewing track and rolling stock (long-run
avoidable costs) 2. Under "efficient" operations, passenger revenues would cover fully distributed
costs but still would make only a nominal contribution. For commercial passenger traffic the
situation is much better with first class passengers covering full costs, including a return on assets.
3.30   Freight revenues. by contrast, fail to cover even short-run avoidable costs. Perumka's latest
analyses find that the only freight traffic covering variable costs and some contribution to fixed
costs are Suralaya coal in South Sumatra and fuel to Solo in Java. The only traffic covering direct
cost (train operations, fuel and rolling stock maintenance) are other coal in South Sumatra,
containers to and from Bandung, fuel to Cepu and steel from Cilegon to Surabaya. All other traffic
(including fertilizer, cement and sand) are not covering direct costs.
3.31   Since 1991, average revenue for passenger services has increased overall by 43.0% from Rp.
15.1 per pass-km 1991 to Rp. 21.6 per pass-km in 1995, reflecting a mix change, since the increase
for economy class services was only 26.5%. Aggregate price inflation over the same period totaled
35.3%.
3.32   Perumka's inability to increase tariffs is due to a combination of: (a) explicit regulation of
fares for economy and suburban passenger services, which are in general now below the fares of
competing bus services; (b) implicit regulation of fares for premium passenger services and
negotiated rates for bulk freight services, for which market conditions would in many instances
permit significant increases; and (c) non-competitiveness of many low density short and medium
distance passenger services and of general and small volume bulk freight services.,3 So, while there
is potential to increase tariffs on a number of services if Perumka were able to market and price its
services on purely commercial grounds, such a commercial approach would also bring it to
discontinue many services that are non-remunerative.
E.  SUBSECTOR INVESTMENT PLANNING
3.33   Since the late 1960s, GO] has adopted a centralized and highly structured system  of
development planning which has been subject to progressive improvement and refinement over time.
Development plans are prepared for the long-term (25 years) and the medium term (five years), and
12 Short-run avoidable costs (SRAC) comprise the operating and maintenance costs that would be saved if the
service were to be withdrawn. This is an appropriate measure to use where there is excess capacity in
infrastructure and rolling stock. Long-run avoidable costs (LRAC) comprise SRAC plus the costs of rolling
stock provision and infrastructure renewals. This is an appropriate measure to use when there is spare capacity
in infrastructure but not rolling stock. "Efficient" costs are the costs that would be achieved if best practices
were employed to operate the system.
13  To bridge the gap between rising costs and inadequate tariffs, passenger fares were increased by 28% for
economy class and 14% for executive and business class effective early April 1996.



- 18 -
are designed to realize the goals and implement the policies outlined in the GBHN. The plans are
compiled by Bappenas and promulgated by Presidential Decree.'4
3.34   The development planning process combines top-down and bottom-up approaches. The top-
down framework is provided by the GBHN, and by initial macro-economic projections and outline
sectoral and regional goals, strategies, and parameters developed by Bappenas in consultation with
the concerned line ministries and regional authorities. Individual ministries, SOEs, and regional
governments then draft more specific targets and strategies for their respective sectors, subsectors
and regions, and formulate draft development programs for their realization. In the final stages,
these draft goals and programs plans are integrated through intensive inter-agency discussions.
During this process, the initial investment proposals are usually cut back and amended to align with
projected financing capacity and refined sectoral and regional priorities.
3.35   The resultant development plans are static in the sense that targets are not subject to revision
during the plan period and are considered binding on the government agencies and SOEs charged
with their implementation. While they are intended to provide a framework for both the public and
private sectors, the nature and content of development programs naturally differs considerably
between sectors such as industry, where new investment is mostly private, and public works, where
GOI finances the major share.
3.36   Up until the end of Repelita V, all investment in the railway subsector was financed by GOI.
The Repelita VI plan envisages increased private participation in the railway subsector, and the
investments estimated to be needed to achieve the plan's overall traffic growth target rate of 14% per
year are expected to be financed by GOI, Perumka and the private sector . The development
program for railway transport accordingly includes specific physical targets and associated cost
estimates for the various categories of investments."  The total investment needs are estimated at
just under Rp 3 trillion in nominal prices (equivalent to US$1.3 billion at current exchange rates). 6
Most of this is allocated for main infrastructure development, including for the further development
of the JABOTABEK commuter network, and the remainder is for rolling stock.
3.37   As of March 1996, the Repelita VI investment plan for the railways (1994-95 through 1998-
99) consists of Rp. 2,963 billion of projects for which the financing has already been arranged.
These projects are committed to be carried out and represent the "core" of any investment plan for
Repelita VI.  The committed projects include Rp. 1,347 billion of projects for JABOTABEK
April 1994 marked the start of the Second Long-Term Development Plan (PJP-II) and the Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita VI). Their preparation formally commenced in April 1993 following the
quinquennial meeting of the Peoples Consultative Assembly (MPR), whose activities culminated in March
1993 with the issue of the GBHN and the election of the President. The plans and the first-year budgets were
prepared according to a schedule that enabled implementation to commence in April 1994.
15 The main categories comprise: construction of new track; improvement and rehabilitation of existing track;
improvement and rehabilitation of bridges; modernization of signaling; procurement and rehabilitation of
locomotives, coaches, and railcars and wagons; and feasibility and engineering studies.
16 Perumka estimates that a significantly higher level of investment is needed to achieve these traffic growth
targets.



- 19 -
suburban services (45%), Rp. 571 billion of signal modernization projects on Java outside
JABOTABEK (19%), and other projects (Annex 3.4).
3.38   A  significant percentage of the committed projects for Repelita VI, especially in the
categories of signal modernization and  locomotive rehabilitation, may have less economic
justification than other projects for which funds have not been committed. For this reason there is
merit in taking a more integrated "corridor" or "systemwide" approach in the future to planning for
the expansion and modernization of railway capacity.7
3.39  In planning for infrastructure investments GOI and Perumka have already initiated a "corridor"
approach. Under this approach corridor development is prioritized based on traffic volumes and
projections and all future investments and actions to increase capacity in a corridor are planned in a
coordinated manner in particular as regards the sequencing of signaling and track investments. This
approach will be further strengthened and improved, inter alia, through careful evaluation of likely
traffic demand and capacity and its development will be supported under the project.
3.40  At negotiations agreement was reached with GOI that it will annually: (i) furnish to the Bank
by September 30 a draft "core" railway infrastructure investment plan, prepared using cost/benefit
analyses carried out on a corridor approach and taking into account Perumka 's corporate plan; and
(ii) finalize the "core "plan taking into account the Bank's comments.
F.  PERUMKA CORPORATE PLANNING
3.41   Perumka maintains a rolling medium-term  (five-year) Corporate Plan.  This is updated
annually taking account of objectives and constraints set by GOI. The plan is comprehensive and
detailed, and reflects a sound understanding of the passenger and freight transport markets in the
regions served by rail, of the factors that influence mode choice, and of the costs of its services.
3.42 The usefulness of the current plan is, however, limited. Firstly, the externally imposed
objectives and constraints are inconsistent inasmuch as it is not possible to meet the traffic growth
and profit goals with the permitted tariffs and expected investment levels. Secondly, the plan does
not constitute an agreement between Perumka management and GOI, as GOI has not committed
itself to making the projected investment financing available, nor has it permitted the assumed tariff
increases. 18Consequently, Perumka's management cannot be held accountable for delivering the
plan outputs.
3.43   The shortcomings of the corporate plan, are attributable to the nature of the Repelita
planning process to which it is linked. In common with other subsectors, growth targets tend to be
17 The railway corridor is a convenient way to group the railway resources that can be associated with the various
transport markets between pairs of origins and destinations. The market-oriented "corridor" approach to
railway planning was taken by GOI and Perumka in planning the improvements in the Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor under this project. In addition to corridor-based projects, there also are projects whose planning
requires a systemwide approach, and two examples are the development of a track maintenance system and a
locomotive unit exchange maintenance system under this project.
18 Perumka updates its Corporate Plan annually, but not all updates are subject to review by GOI. The last plan
reviewed was that covering the Repelita VI period (1994/95-1998/99).



- 20 -
set initially using optimistic assumptions about the availability of investment financing, but then are
not revised downwards when financing allocations are reduced. Repelita targets cannot be amended
by Perumka or MOC as they are established by Presidential Decree, and corporate plans are
expected to provide for their realization.  Perumka accordingly maintains an alternative plan
scenario based on what it considers to be feasible assumptions. This forms the basis for the "Core
Plan" underlying the financial projections of Chapter 6.
3.44  In future years this "Core Plan" will not only need to be updated but may be subject to major
modification on account of: (i) the implementation of the government's policies for the sector: (ii)
the implementation of Perumka's emerging business strategy developed by taking into account the
comparative advantage of railway transport compared to other modes; (iii) the impact of efficiency
improvements; and (iv) the impact of possible private participation. At negotiations agreement was
reached that Perumka will annuallv (i) furnish to the Bank/fbr its review and c-mment by September
30 its draft corporate plan and associated core investment plan, preparedl taking into account its
financial situation, updated ira,ffic forecasts, operational efficiency, available rolling stock and other
pertinent factors; and (ii) finalize and carry out the corporate plan and associated core investment
plan taking into account the Bank's commentsv.
G.  PRIVATE PARTICIPATION
3.45   Since the early 1990s, GOI has actively encouraged private participation in the railway
subsector, and Perumka in consultation with MOC has developed basic procedures for processing a
limited range of private proposals.'9 More recently, GR 20/94 has permitted foreign investment in
the subsector. The forms of participation so far permitted are joint operations (with profit-sharing
based on assets), contract management, concessions (principally for shop and other service
businesses at stations), and leases/rentals of Perumka property. Specific reference is made to Built,
Operate and Transfer (BOT), Build, Own and Operate (BOO), and Build, Operate and Lease (BOL)
schemes, but only in the context of commercial property development of Perumka land.
3.46  No attempt has yet been made to solicit private proposals for specific well-defined projects,
but numerous unsolicited expressions of interest have been received.  Most of these involve
development of Perumka's inner city land assets, and there have so far been few well developed
proposals for investments in the provision of railway services or in supporting businesses. Those
services and businesses that have attracted private interest mostly have monopoly characteristics,
although Perumka is currently operating one train service in cooperation with a private group.20
H.    KEY ISSUES
3.47   While the overall performance of the inter-city railway system has improved significantly
since 1990, when the initial subsector reforms commenced, GOI recognizes that much still remains
to be done if railway transport is to play its proper role within an efficiently functioning transport
These are set out in Board of Directors Decree KA/UP/21458/91 of August 1991.
20 This is the recently commenced daily container train service between Jakarta and Surabaya. It has involved a
comparatively small private investment and, unlike most proposed private projects, faces intense competition
from road and Ro-Ro shipping.



- 21 -
system. Accordingly in 1995, DGLC commissioned railway management consultants to evaluate the
adequacy of the current institutional and regulatory framework and to recommend improvements. In
parallel, Perumka commissioned a consultant team to review and recommend improvements to the
medium-term performance improvement and investment plan.2'
3.48  The consolidated findings of these studies and of Bank missions confirm that a combination
of inter-linked external and internal problems outside the control of Perumka's directors are
constraining the efficiency and quality of railway services and impeding growth.  The more
important of these are described briefly below.
3.49 Interfaces between GOI and Perumka. The interfaces between GOI and Perumka are
poorly structured and defined, particularly on matters involving regulation, financing, and
infrastructure development and management. Consequently, accountability is diluted and Perumka's
directors and senior managers must devote excessive time to meetings in Jakarta with the many GOI
agencies involved.
3.50   Subsector Corporate Structure. Indonesia's railway system does not lend itself to being
managed effectively as a monolithic Perum corporation. The four railway networks are widely
separated geographically and the nature and sizes of the markets they serve are very different. The
Java Railway alone is a large and diversified enterprise whose main businesses include freight
services, interurban passenger services, JABOTABEK commuter services, and urban property
development.
3.51   Perumka Internal Organization. Perumka's organization structure has too many layers
and compartments. Work practices are outdated and lines of reporting and accountability are poorly
defined in many areas. Headquarters and regional offices are structured along functional rather than
business lines, and responsibility for some key activities, such as locomotive maintenance, is divided
22
between directorates.  The individual railways are managed essentially as cost centers, and there is
little incentive for entrepreneurial initiative. The result is a production-oriented culture in which
only the Principal Director has a clear profit responsibility.
3.52   Staffing. Perumka has more staff than needed for its current level of activity, although
continued fast traffic growth coupled with natural attrition is helping to address this. At the same
time, it has insufficient qualified and experienced technical and managerial personnel.  Thus
personnel remain in positions that should have been eliminated following investments in electronic
signaling and centralized train control, but recruiting and retaining technicians to maintain this
21  "Further Institutional Development of Indonesia's Railway Subsector" (Executing agency: DGLC; Consultant:
CPCS et al), and "Review and Prioritization of the Performance Improvement and Investment Plan for the
Indonesian State Railways" (Executing Agency: Perumka; Consultant: CANAC et al). Both studies were
financed under the Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure (Loan
3385-IND).
22  The top level organization of Perum corporations has, by established convention, been along functional lines.
While some changes to PJKA's top-level structure were made at the time of its transformation to Perumka, the
lower level structure remained largely unchanged. The organization of locomotive maintenance, whereby the
Director of Engineering is responsible for workshops and the Director of Operations for line depots, has its
origins in the era of the steam locomotive.



- 22 -
equipment have proven difficult. These problems stem both from limited managerial autonomy on
staffing and personnel compensation measures and from outdated operating regulations and work
practices.
3.53  Economic Regulation and Public Service Obligations. Explicit and implicit regulation of
passenger fares and freight rates results in the revenues for most rail services being below the costs
of provision. While fares for long distance economy services generally cover short-run avoidable
costs, they do not cover the costs of capital renewal. On the freight side, only a few bulk freight
services and one container train service currently cover short-run avoidable costs (paras 3.29-30).
GOI does not provide direct compensation to Perumka for losses incurred, but has in the past
financed most rolling stock investments through equity increases.
3.54  Infrastructure Provision. Blurred responsibilities for most aspects of railway infrastructure
23
provision result in poor investment and maintenance decisions.   Responsibility for planning new
investments is shared between DGLC and Perumka and is conducted in a fragmented manner.
Consequently, many proposed projects appear premature, sub-optimal in concept, or otherwise not
well justified. GOI finances all main infrastructure investments, and has contributed a fixed annual
amount (Rp. 31.5 billion or around US$14 million at current exchange rates) towards the costs of
operation and maintenance. Perumka is permitted to use the infrastructure free of charge, but is
required to bear the balance of the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs.
3.55  Financing of Maintenance Expenditures.  Systematic under-funding of maintenance is
accelerating the deterioration of track and rolling stock, reducing rolling stock availability and
productivity, and ultimately requiring GOI to finance premature rehabilitation or replacement
investments. Perumka is required to earn a profit and, with limited powers to increase tariffs, is
forced to cut costs. Maintenance is the budget item that is most readily cut and, rather than being
computed on the basis of needs, is now necessarily treated as a balancing or residual item.
3.56  Technology Choices. Railway investment decisions are often driven by suppliers who are
able to arrange concessional financing, rather than by soundly based plans and appropriate technical
standards. This has resulted in the acquisition of assets that are not truly needed or well suited to
their purpose, in higher capital costs, and more generally in a proliferation of equipment types. Thus,
for example, there are now three different families of electronic signaling systems installed in Java,
thereby exacerbating maintenance problems and potentially posing increased safety risks.
3.57  Corporate Planning. The shortcomings in Perumka's corporate plans have been touched
upon above. The main problem concerns inconsistencies in the externally imposed objectives and
constraints rather than Perumka's corporate planning approach, which is basically sound.
3.58  Competition. GOI's transport sector policies are essentially sound, but shortcomings in
their application and enforcement are tilting the playing field of inter-modal competition. The
distortions sometimes work in opposite directions, but are not necessarily self-canceling. Thus, slow
implementation of GOI's adopted road user charges policy and lax enforcement of vehicle weight
and dimension limits enable truck operators to secure heavy freight traffic that would be more
23 Average annual expenditure on infrastructure development in the Repelita VI plan totals around Rp. 375
billion per year.



- 23 -
efficiently moved by rail. Conversely, low regulated fares coupled with compensating capital
subsidies from GOI have enabled rail to carry short- and medium-distance low density passenger
traffic that would be better served by bus.
1.    THE GOVERNMENT'S RESTRUCTURING AGENDA
3.59  These findings and the associated recommendations were considered by MOC and Perumka
in a series of high level meetings held during the latter half of 1995. There was early general
agreement on the diagnosis, and attention focused mainly on defining measures for overcoming the
identified problems. This process culminated in the formulation of a policy framework, consistent
with GBHN and Law 13/92, to govern the second phase in the subsector's restructuring (Annex 3.5).
3.60 GOI (the Coordinating Ministry for the Economy and Finance (Ekkuwasbang), MOC, MOF
and Bappenas) has developed a time-based action plan for implementing these policies (Annex 3.6).
An Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) was established in March 1996 to guide and
monitor the implementation of the policies and, concurrently, to act as the Steering Committee for
the Railway Efficiency Project. Subsequently, a Restructuring Task Force (RTF), reporting to the
Committee, to manage the preparations for Perumka's conversion to Persero status was also
established. The policy framework and action plan for restructuring the railway sector with the view
of increasing its efficiency are sound and appropriate. They provide the basis for the project and will
be supported by the project. Key actions in the main areas are outlined below.
3.61  Compensation for Public Service Obligations.  GOI will in future compensate Perumka
directly and transparently for the "public service obligation" (PSO) or "non-commercial" traffics -
principally economy class passenger services - which it is required to operate at regulated fares and
rates (Annex 3.7). In parallel, GOI will cease financing Perumka's investments in rolling stock and
other assets. GOI is concerned to ensure that PSO compensation does not subsidize inefficiency or
enable Perumka to continue operating services that would be more economically served by other
modes. Accordingly, compensation amounts will be carefully negotiated on the basis of the
regulated tariffs and well-supported estimates of load factors and efficient operating costs.
3.62 The first PSO compensation payment will be made to Perumka under the 1997/98 State
Budget. Perumka has been instructed to: (a) develop and discuss with MOC, MOF and Bappenas, a
proposed methodology and parameters for computing PSO compensation payments; and (b) prepare
and present a draft budget proposal for the 1997/98 payment based on the agreed methodology and
parameters. GOI has also decided that in subsequent years: (a) Perumka will be required to prepare
by June 30 a report evaluating the implementation of the PSO mechanism; (b) proposals for PSO
compensation will be subject to very rigorous scrutiny and be developed in the light of experience
during previous years; and (c) tariffs and rates should in general be raised to commercial levels and
uncompetitive services withdrawn as rapidly as is practicable so as to quickly reduce the need for
PSO compensation. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
3.63  Compensation for Infrastructure Maintenance and Operation Costs. GOI will in future
compensate Perumka through the State Budget for the costs it incurs in improving, maintaining and
operating the main railway infrastructure on GOI's behalf. The amount of the annual infrastructure
maintenance and operation budget will be carefully computed on the basis of the estimated efficient
costs of specific works needed and/or of maintaining and operating the infrastructure to



- 24 -
appropriately defined standards. Perumka will be accountable for demonstrating that the funds so
provided have been used effectively and efficiently for the purposes intended.
3.64   The first infrastructure maintenance and operation payment will be made to Perumka under
the 1997/98 State Budget. Perumka has been instructed to: (a) develop and discuss with MOC, MOF
and Bappenas, a proposed methodology and parameters for computing infrastructure maintenance
and operation costs; and (b) prepare a draft budget for the 1997/98 payment based on the agreed
methodology and parameters. In subsequent years: (a) Perumka will be required to prepare by June
30 an annual report evaluating the implementation of the mechanism; and (b) the maintenance and
compensation payment will be carefully developed in the light of experience during previous years.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
3.65  Financing of Perumka Investments. GOI is already requiring Perumka to finance some
rolling stock investments from internal sources and borrowings. This policy is now being made
more stringent and Perumka will be required in future to finance all new investments from internal
sources and borrowings. Any foreign funds provided by GOI for the financing of Perumka assets
under loan agreements will be on-lent to Perumka on commercial terms. At negotiations agreement
was reached that GOI shall not provide to Perumka, whether directly or indirectll, any funds or
financing other than.' (i) loans on terms no more favorable than those availahle from commercial
lenders; and (ii) payments in accordance with the public service obligation compensation and the
infrastructure maintenance compensation mechanisms.
3.66  Track Access Charges System. In parallel to the above compensation mechanisms, GOI
will implement a system of track access charges, to apply equally to Perumka and private operators
of railway services, for the recovery of infrastructure provision costs. Perumka has been instructed
to prepare proposals for the design and phased implementation of a track access charges system.
Following the review and, if necessary, amendment of these proposals. GOI will arrange for its
implementation to commence from April 1, 1997. In subsequent years: (a) Perumka will be
required to prepare by June 30 a report evaluating the implementation of the system; and (b) the
level of track access charges imposed will be increased progressively, having regard, among other
factors, to the level of road user charges and the experience gained during previous years. These
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
3.67  Corporate Restructuring of Perumka/Interfaces with GOI.  GOI will arrange for
Perumka to be transformed into a more autonomous, streamlined and commercially focused limited
liability  (Persero) company  structured along "line-of-business" principles.   The top-level
organization of the new company (PT KA) will be designed with a view to its subsequently
becoming a holding company, some of whose subsidiaries would become candidates for early
privatization.
3.68  The 'interfaces" between GOI and the new company will be made simple and clear. The new
budgeting mechanisms described in the proceeding subsections, coupled with the associated changes
in the financing of Perumka's investments and the introduction of track access charges represent
important initial steps in this direction. In addition, GOI has already moved to separate the budget
funds provided to Perumka under the State Budget from the MOC budget.



- 25 -
3.69  GOI recognizes that transforming Perumka into PT KA requires careful preparation and
planning to ensure that it is more than a change of name. This applies especially to areas such as:
a) the design of a streamlined corporate structure that increases commercial/profit orientation
throughout the enterprise, eliminates unnecessary management layers. simplities lines of
reporting, increases management accountability, and facilitates the subsequeLIt conversion of
business units into subsidiary companies capable of attracting private investimenit;4
b) the restructuring of the balance sheet, together with the revaluation of needed assets
(including land) and the write-off and disposal of obsolete and redundant assets,
c) the restructuring of the work-force and the improveinent of huinan resource managemenit.
development and compensation policies along lines that would enable PT KA to operate
from the outset with a correctly-sized and motivated work-force;
d) the development of improved and better integrated management, planning and budgetinig
systems and processes that are aligned to the new corporate structure and mission, that
enable effective decision-making and control at all levels, and that provide a basis for
"'performance contracts" between GOI and the corporation; and
e) the amendment of outdated operating regulations and working procedures that impede
efficiency and prevent full realization of the benefits of investments in modern tcchinology.
It is estimated that 18 months will be required to advance these and other necessary activities to a
stage where conversion to Persero status would be feasible and appropriate.
3.70  GOI has adopted January 1, 1998 as the target date for PT KA to commence operation, and
has given the IACC, assisted by the RTF, responsibility for managing the necessary preparations.
The RTF will be chaired by the Principal Director of Perumka and will report to the IACC. Its
duties will encompass developing proposals for restructuring the GOI - PT KA interlfce and, in
consultation with the Jakarta Urban Mass Transit Project Team, preparing detailed proposals for the
financial and managerial separation of the Jabotabek and Java inter-city systems. A/ negolialions
agreement was reached that GOI will: (i) furnish the above proposals to the Bank for its review;
(ii) by February 28, 1997 implement the financial separation of the Jabotabek and .Iava inter-ulrban
rail systems; (iii) develop and furnish to the Bank/for its review b y October 31, 199'7 i p)rogram for
the restructuring of Perumka into a limited liability company and a detailed proposval fbr the7
managerial separation of the Jabotabek and Java inter-urban rail systems; an  (i v) taking into
account the Bank's comments, establish PT KA and implement the proposal Wit/h C/c cI of.lunuarv 1,
1998.
3.71   Private Participation.  GOI considers expanded private participation essenitial for the
successful development of the railway subsector. Consideration is already being given to a wide
range of options, ranging from out-sourcing of services, through concessioning of existing railway
operations and investments in new railway businesses, to development of land and property assets
and partial divestiture of future PT KA subsidiaries. Importance is attached to private participation
Early attention needs to be given to the separation. both financial and physical, of the Jabotabek commuter
railway from the Java intercity system.



- 26 -
being secured through transparent procedures that provide for competition where possible and that
safeguard adequately the interests of all stake-holders.
3.72  The RTF has been instructed: (a) by September 1997, to identify and evaluate commercial
opportunities for railway development in Java and Sumatra and for exploiting Perumka's urban land
assets; and (b) by October 31, 1997 to formulate guidelines and procedures for soliciting and
negotiating private participation through concession and other arrangements. In parallel with the
above, it has also been charged with evaluating unsolicited private proposals in terms, inter alia, of
their consistency with the planned future sector structure and of the proposed allocations of risks and
rewards. Agreement was reached that GOI will furnish the guidelines and procedures to the Bank
for its review and comment and thereafter, finalize and adopt the guidelines taking into account the
Bank's comments.
3.73  Implementation of Law 13/92.  The RTF has been instructed to review the current draft
Govemment Regulations for implementing Law 13/92 (para 1.19); to furnish the results of the
review to the Bank by February 28, 1997; and to prepare final drafts that are fully consistent with the
adopted subsector policies and, more generally, with GOI deregulation policies. Agreement was
reached that the Bank will be afforded the opportunity to comment on the revised draft; that the final
draft will be prepared taking into account the Bank's comments; and that all measures will be taken
for its issuance.
3.74   Environmental Management and Occupational Health and Safety. GOI has instructed
Perumka to expand and strengthen its existing Quality Assurance Unit to incorporate an
environmental management and occupational health and safety capability by June 1996, and to
ensure that this unit is actively involved in the implementation of the proposed Project.  It has
further instructed that the status and capabilities of this unit be enhanced as part of Perumka's
transformation to PT KA.   At negotiations agreement was reached with Perumka on the
implementation of these decisions.
3.75   Action Plan Implementation Arrangements. At negotiations agreement was reached with
GOI that it will (i) maintain the inter-agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) to guide and monitor
the implementation of the railway sector restructuring and, concurrently, to act ay the Steering
Committee for the project; and (ii) cause Perumka to maintain the (RTF), reporting to the
Committee, to manage the preparations for Perumka 's conversion to Persero status.



CHAPTER 4
THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES
4.1    With the general objective of improving the economic efficiency and service quality of
Indonesia's railway subsector, to position it to play its proper role within the transport system, the
project aims specifically at: (a) railway subsector policy reform by restructuring the railway
corporation, reforming the relationship between it and government and creating the foundations for
expanded private participation; (b) rationalizing railway subsector capital investments; (c) improving
railway subsector management and operations; and (d) increasing the physical capacity of an
important railway corridor.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
4.2   The project consists of five components:
a) Policy reform involving restructuring of Perumka into a persero and reform of government-
corporate interfaces;
b) Improvements to the railway between Jakarta and Bandung (170 km) to expand capacity,
shorten passenger journey times, and improve safety in this important passenger and freight
corridor;
c) Implementation of a modern track maintenance system on Java;
d) Implementation of a diesel electric locomotive unit exchange maintenance system on Java;
and
e) Strengthening of Perumka's management.
4.3   Policy Reform. With the view of improving the efficiency of the railway subsector, GOI
has developed a set of policies and an action plan (paras. 3.59, 3.60 and Annexes 3.5 and 3.6) for
restructuring the railway corporation and for realigning GOI's and Perumka's respective
responsibilities for subsector development. The action plan provides for: (a) the establishment of a
mechanism to compensate Perumka for its public service obligations; (b) the establishment of a
mechanism to compensate Perumka for infrastructure maintenance and operation costs; (c) the
establishment of a system of track access charges; (d) the transformation of Perumka into a limited
liability company (Persero) structured on "line of business" principles; and (e) the development of a
framework and strategy for expanded private participation.
4.4   The IACC which has been established by the Minister of Communications to guide and
supervise the implementation of these reforms and to oversee implementation of the other project
components will require the part-time services of an expert individual advisor to assist it with the
strategic aspects of the restructuring agenda. A total of 12 person-months input is required to be
provided over a period of 24 months through six to eight periodic visits. These services are required



- 28 -
to start as soon as possible and will be financed under the ongoing Second Tecihical Assistance
Project for Public and Private Provisioni of hIfrastructur-e (Loan 391 3-IND).
4.5    Responsibility for preparing proposals for the transformation to Persero status. tor the reform
of the Government-corporate interfaces and the associated review of the dratt (iRs for Law 1 3/92.
and for expanding private participation has beenl assigned to the RTF. 'I'This is headedi b y Perulnka's
President Director and its memlibers comprise otlhel- Peunlilka directol-s and sciior personinlel. The
RTF reports to the IACC and will be supported by sever-al working groups compr-ising Perumka
personnel and, where necessary, consultants/expert advisors. The l'ive main workinog groups which
will require specialist assistance are: (a) the Corporate RestruIctuLinlg W\horking Group, which will
require the part-tine services of an advisor for ten person-months to assist with the preparation of
detailed proposals for restructurinig, of' an advisor t'or six person-miionithis to assist with the
development and implemiienitationl of an appropr-iate corporate planning methiodology for the
restructured company. and of a le-al advisor for a period of two personi-milonithis to assist with the
review and revision of the draft GRs: (b) Fixed Assets Working G(roup, whici  will require the
services of' consultants ( 15 person-mlionlths) to assist with the review and rcvaluationi of' Perumka's
fixed assets and preparation of a scrapping/sales plan for redundanit/obsolete items, (c) Manpower
Planning Working Group, wvhich will require the services of an advisor for 12 person-monithis to
assist it with the preparation of a preliminiiary stat'ting plan for the new corporation; (d) Processes
and Information Systems Working Group, which wkill requirc the part-time services ot' systems
analysis consultants for 40 person-milonithis to assist with the design and implemicritation of' improved
management informationi systems to support the new corporate structure aiid processes; and (e)
Private Participation Working Group, which will require the services of consultanits to conduct
surveys and studies to identify opportullities and mechianiisins for securing expanded and efficient
private participation in the future developmenit of the Java and Sulimatra railway systems and in the
exploitation of Perumka's tirbatn land and property assets (total 55 person-mliolithis).
4.6    Perumka's Finance Director has been charged with proposing methodologies for the public
service obligations compensationl and hifrastructure mainitenanice and operation budgets and for the
track access charges system. together with dral't budgets lor FY 1997/98. Two in-lhouse teams have
been established to unider-take these tasks. The part-time services of an expert advisor are required
for five person-months over a period of ten months to assist these teamis. The services are required
to start as soon as possible. In the three subsequent years. follow-on advisory services of about two
person-months per year would be required to assist in reviewing the experienice with the
compensation mechanisms and charges system  and in making f'urthier refiinements. The total
requirement for consultancy services to the RTF is 151 personi-milonths. Most of these services will
be required to commence before the project becomes effective and will be tinaniced trom  the
ongoing Loan 3913-4ND2.
4.7    Jakarta-Bandung Corridor Development. The project provides improvemenits to the
railway in this corridor to increase capacity in terms of the number of trains operated, reduce
passenger journey times, and increase service reliability and safety. Improvemenits would include a
modern centralized traffic control signal system  between  Bekasi, Cikampek, Bandung, and
Gedebage (156 km); 27.7 km of new second main track; remodeling of station trackage; and 24 km
25  The services for corporate planning, the preparation of a stafling plan and the development of an MIS will be
financed under the proposed proJect.



- 29 -
of new rail to replace partly-worn rail which would be relaid on lower tonnage and lower speed Java
main lines for the balance of the rail's useful life. The project also provides consultancy services for
project management and training of Perumka project management and operating and maintenance
staff.
4.8    The Jakarta-Bandung Corridor (170 km) consists of several distinct sections described in
Box 4-1. The 56 km section between Bekasi and Cikampek is the most important intercity railway
line in Java, carrying all trains to and from points east of Jakarta, not just those to and from
Bandung.
Box 4-1: Description of Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
Gambir-Manggarai (4 km) Carries Jakarta-Bogor suburban services as well as intercity trains.
Now double-tracked, electrified, and equipped with modern signals. Manggarai is an important
junction and may become the future Jakarta terminus for intercity trains.
Manggarai-Bekasi (20 km) Also part of the JABOTABEK suburban system. Now double-tracked,
electrified, and equipped with modern signals.
Bekasi-Cikampek (56 km) Now double-tracked with mechanical signals. Would be equipped with
modern signals under the project.
Cikampek-Purwakarta (19 km) Now single-tracked with mechanical signals. Would be double-
tracked and equipped with modern signals under the project.
Purwakarta-Padalarang (56 km) Now single-tracked with mechanical signals. Unlike other
sections which are relatively straight and flat, it contains many sharp curves and traverses hilly
terrain cut by deep valleys spanned by high bridges. Under the project, three sections of about 3 km
each would be double-tracked, and the entire section would be equipped with modem signals.
Padalarang-Bandung (15 km) Now double-tracked with mechanical signals. Would be equipped
with modem signals under the project.
4.9    Perumka and its consultants analyzed the options for meeting future expected passenger and
freight demand in the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor. They found that most of the feasible short term
measures already have been implemented by Perumka. The proposed project would therefore focus
on medium term improvements to enable Perumka to handle the forecast growth in passenger and
freight traffic up to the year 2020. This will require both higher train frequencies and longer trains,
increased infrastructure capacity, improved punctuality through centralized control of train
movements, and a reduction in the traveling time of the Gambir-Bandung Parahyangan trains to 2 hr
22 min with existing locomotive-hauled trains or 2 hr 18 min with new diesel multiple unit rail cars.
4.10   Proposed improvements were evaluated by Perumka and its consultants by use of computer
simulation models. This resulted in recommendations for a cost effective plan of station remodeling,



- 30 -
double tracking, and signaling improvements. The proposed project would implement the following
recommendations:
a) Improve track quality by tamping, by upgrading rails by continuous welding and grinding,
and by renewal or replacement of switches;
b) Remodel track layouts of selected stations between Bekasi and Bandung;
c) Install double track Cikampek-Purwakarta (17.5 kim) and at three locations (total 10.2 km)
between Purwakarta and Padalarang;
d) Install a modern signal system between Bekasi and Bandung, with electronic interlocking,
automatic block signals with intermediate blocks, and centralized traffic control (CTC);
e) Upgrade track and existing signals on the alternate route via Bogor for detour of container
trains at night, to provide time for project construction and maintenance on the Corridor;
f) Provide training to the track, signaling, and rolling stock maintenance personnel and others
affected by the new signaling and other equipment, starting with a pilot project;
g) Adapt the local maintenance and operating organization to reflect the changes caused by the
modernization of the Corridor and the increased traffic levels of the future;
h) Replace and modernize operating rules governing train operations to benefit fully from the
introduction of the new signaling system and its inherently greater safety,
i) Conduct an in-depth study of bridge fatigue lives;
j) Study the anticipated capacity problem on the line between Manggarai and Bekasi, where
intercity trains now share a double-tracked line with JABOTABEK electrified suburban
trains; and
k) Study the long term needs of the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor to identify cost effective ways to
increase capacity, reduce travel time, and improve punctuality and service quality.
4. I1 The study by Perumka and its consultants was an integrated corridor approach to investment
planning that should be applied throughout Indonesia in the future before railway signaling and other
major projects are undertaken. The recommended approach is similar to the one being applied in
China and India, where network computer simulation models are helping to evaluate capacity
expansion proposals within an individual corridor and to compare proposals for corridors across the
entire railway network. The proposed project provides assistance to continue the application of
similar network analysis tools in Indonesia.
4.12   While the study by Perumka and its consultants was underway, a contract financed by the
Australian Government was signed for installation of modern signals on the Bekasi-Cikampek
section and the Padalarang-Bandung-Gedebage sections.  Since financing was available, GOI
decided to proceed with this part of the capacity expansion investment in advance of Bank appraisal



- 31 -
of the overall Corridor project because of an urgent need to improve safety and control train
operations on those sections.
4.13   In addition to the Australian contract which has already been let, the Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor improvements would be carried out mainly under the following contracts:
a)  An ICB contract financed by GOI and the Bank for detailed design of new second main track
and station remodeling; procurement of miscellaneous track materials (other than new rails,
sleepers and fasteners, and turnouts); and construction of earthworks and track;
b)  Separate ICB supply contracts financed by the Bank for new rail, sleepers and fasteners, and
turnouts;
c)  An ICB contract financed by GOI and the Bank for detailed design and installation of the
new signal system for the middle part of the Corridor between Cikampek and Padalarang:
and
d)  A contract financed by GOI and the Bank with consultants for project management and
supervision, and for training of Perumka project management staff and operating and
maintenance staff ("learning by doing").
4.14   By separately contracting for the supply of long lead time items such as rail, turnouts, and
sleeper and fastener assemblies, several months' time can be saved and the actual work under the
track and station design and construction contract can proceed more quickly. The objective is to
allow completion of all necessary track and station changes between Bekasi and Cikampek in
advance of the installation of the new signal system under the ongoing Australian-financed contract.
4.15   Track Upgrading and Maintenance System. This component consists of renewal of 100
km of main track, partial restoration of 160 equivalent km of track and establishment of a modern
track maintenance system on Java. The project provides new rail, concrete sleepers, other track
materials, a rail reclamation yard, facilities and equipment, and project management services and
training.
4.16   The two critical elements of the component are (i) consultant services to assist Perumka to
better plan and carry out improved track maintenance in the field, and (ii) the investment in the rail
reclamation yard for the preparation of continuous welded (CWR) new and relay rail. From the rail
reclamation yard, the new CWR would be transported to the field site by specially equipped trains in
lengths of at least 300 meters. The rail removed from the track then would be relaid or "cascaded"
to less important lines. This rail cascade system first would involve transport of the rail on the
specially equipped trains to the rail reclamation yard for processing and welding into relay CWR.
The relay CWR then would be transported on the rail trains to other locations on Java. In addition to
the computer-based data base of measurements of track geometry and wear and the more extensive
planning to exploit this data base, the project would establish new field maintenance procedures
(including on-site hand welding and small-machine grinding of worn rail) in order to extend the
useful life of rail, turnouts, and other track components.



- 32 -
4.17   The most important resulting benefit is the extension of rail life.   There also should be a
significant reduction of rolling stock maintenance costs due to better track, a reduction in train
delays due to less track slow orders, and a reduction of train accidents caused by less track-related
causes. The intent is that the improved maintenance techniques would be progressively extended
throughout the Perumka network (not just on  Java), starting with the most heavily trafficked
sections (i.e., there will not be immediate system-wide benefits).  As this happens, annual
expenditures for replacement rail should decline significantly.
4.18   Project management and training required to successfully implement this component will be
provided under a consulting contract which will include five tasks: (1) rail management, including
installation of new and relay CWR; (2) track rehabilitation and sub-grade stabilization; (3) track
restoration; (4) standard track maintenance procedures; and (5) welding and grinding training.
4.19   Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System. The component consists of establishing
an "on-time preventive maintenance system with unit exchange" for diesel electric locomotives on
Java. The system would encompass both the locomotive workshop at Yogyakarta and the two
locomotive "running maintenance" depots at Semarang and Bandung (Annex 4.1). The project
provides initial quantities of critical spare parts and components and consultant services and training.
For the unit exchange maintenance system to be successful and minimize locomotive maintenance
downtime, the two locomotive depots would be managed and operated literally as extensions of the
locomotive workshop, where the workshop would manage the various pools of unit exchange
components to assure their necessary supply and quality to the depots as well as to the workshop
itself.
4.20   Project management and training required to successfully implement this component will be
provided under a consulting contract which will include three tasks: (I) workshop and depot
supervision and implementation support; (2) preparation of a rolling stock maintenance master plan;
and (3) Yogyakarta Workshop Quality Assurance Program.
4.21   Because of budget constraints on the procurement of spare parts, it can be difficult for
railways to implement a unit exchange maintenance system. The tendency has been for railways to
first consume components and spares which were procured as capital assets for the unit exchange
pools, and then to fail to promptly repair or replace the worn or defective components and return
26     Rather than in years, rail life is measured in terms of the aggregate tonnage it has carried. Rail has a finite
life which can depend on many factors, including its chemical and physical properties, the volume of
traffic and the axle loads passing over it, the quality of maintenance of the roadbed as well as the track,
whether it is laid on tangent or curves, and (in some cases) the climate. Rail is replaced either because it
reaches wear limits for safe operation or nears the end of its fatigue life. The repeated application of forces
by passing trains gradually leads to the formation of microscopic fatigue cracks inside the rail that
ultimately cause the rail to fail at the end of its fatigue life. On many railways of the world, even where
axle loads are twice those operated on the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor, high quality rails have been laid and
rail profile grinding and other modem rail maintenance methods are used. In such cases, rail fatigue rather
than rail wear often determines when rail must be changed. However, on Java it is rail wear that apparently
determines when it must be replaced, with the average life of main line rail estimated at only 160 million
tons, a fraction of what its life could be given its good physical and chemical properties. The key to
achieving longer rail life is the successful implementation of the track maintenance system under the
project.



- 33 -
them to the unit exchange pools in usable condition. To help insure against this risk, agreement was
reached at negotiations that procurement of the initial stock o(f unit exchange components and
spares financed by the proposed loan will be divided into three tenders, with Bank approval to float
the second and third tender to be hased on the tdetermination by the consultant assisting Perumka in
the implementation of this component that satisrtactorv progresS has been made in establishment of a
diesel electric locomotive unit exchange system.
4.22   Institutional Development. This componenit aims at developing the institutional capability
of the railway in railway operations and in planning to meet future transport demand focusing on
four areas:
a)  Development and establishment of a bridge mainltenianice management system, including a
Geographic Information Systein (GIS) (30 staff' monlths of foreign and 20 staff months of
local consultants);
b)  Development and introduction of improved signal and train operating regulations and related
training programs (30 staff months of foreign and 20 staff months of local consultants);
c)  Refinement and operationalization for purposes of capital investment planning of network
simulation models for capacity planning (eight staff moniths of foreign and four staff months
of local consultants; and
d)  Development of the railway's capability for assessing the long term demand for railway
services, including the conduct of multimodal ridership studies, using the Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor as a case study (30 staff months of foreign and 1 00 staff months of local
consultants).
C. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
4.23   The partial double tracking of the section of line between Cikampek and Padalarang will affect
256 households whose dwellings have been constructed on posted land owned by GOI.  All those
affected have signed yearly rental agreements with Perumka under which they agree to move when the
land is required in exchange for a nominal rental payment. There are no squatters. Perumka has
prepared a draft resettlement action plan in accordance with World Bank policy on resettlement (OD
4.30). This draft has been reviewed and is being finalized taking into account the Bank's comments.
Implementation will be monitored independently with quarterly reports provided to Perumka and the
Bank.
4.24   For purposes of safety, implementation of the double tracking will also require the acquisition
of narrow (+/- 2 meter) strips of land along some short rural sections where the width of the existing
GOI-owned land is slightly less than the desired right-of-way width. The requirement is for 53 pieces
of land totaling 1.6 ha. No displacement is involved. This land acquisition will also be handled in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.25   The costs of Rp 1.8 billion associated with the RAP and land acquisition (including a 10%
contingency) are included in the project cost estimates. At negotiations, agreement was reached with
Perumka that (i)for purposes of carrying out the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected persons,
the resettlement and the land acquisition will be implemented in accordance with the plans agreed



- 34-
with the Bank, and (ii) that upon completion of the resettlement and land acquisition it willfurnish
to the Bank an evaluation report documenting the process and the outcome.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
4.26   The project will not have any major adverse environmental impacts and is classified as
category "B". The partial double-tracking of the Cikampek-Padalarang section under the Jakarta-
Bandung Corridor development component is straight-forward and does not involve the construction
of major structures and or pose risk of damage to environmentally sensitive areas. Appropriate
mitigation measures designed to safeguard drainage structures and minimize dust, traffic disruption,
workplace hazards and other impacts of the construction work will be included in the conditions of
contract.
4.27   The locomotive maintenance component entails only the limited upgrading of existing
workshop and depot buildings and equipment. Specific provision is made for preventing workshop
and depot operations affecting the surrounding environment, in particular through measures designed
to contain and enable satisfactory disposal of spilled or waste fuel and lubricants. The project will
also contain measures to eliminate or reduce identified environmental problems. The draft
environmental management and monitoring plans for the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor component have
been reviewed by the Bank and are being finalized taking into account the Bank's comments. At
negotiations, agreement was reached with Perumka that it will: (i) implement the environmental
action and monitoring plans; and (ii) incorporate appropriate environmental mitigation measures in
the conditions of contract for the Jakarta-Bandung track works contract.
E. COST ESTIMATES
4.28   Cost estimates are based on feasibility studies and preliminary designs that have been carried
out by Perumka's consultants and modified where appropriate by Perumka and the Bank. Cost
estimates include project management and supervision and assume that detailed design of works in
the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor would be the responsibility of the contractors responsible for
construction and installation of trackwork and signaling.
4.29   The estimated project cost, exclusive of duties and taxes but including a 1 0% physical
contingency on all components and a price contingency to cover estimated price inflation during the
planned five year implementation period, is US$207.3 million (Rp. 573 billion).  Estimated direct
and indirect foreign cost is US$163 million. Price inflation in terms of US dollars was assumed at
3.3% p.a. for 1996 and 2.4% p.a. thereafter. Price inflation in terms of Indonesian rupiahs was
assumed at 8.7% p.a. Table 4-1 summarizes cost estimates by major project component in January
1996 prices based on an exchange rate of Rp. 2,331 per US$. Details are provided in Annex 4.3.
4.30   The Government of Australia already has financed a contract for A$78.5 million (US$56
million), which was executed in July 1995, for a portion of the signal system for the Jakarta-
27     Value added taxes (VAT) on the portion of contracts financed from domestic sources (GOI/Perumka) is to
be paid and provision for such payments must be included in the relevant budgets. Likewise, income tax
on the GOI/Perumka financed portion of contracts for services and for goods/works is payable and should
be budgeted for.



- 35-
Bandung Corridor. The cost of this contract has been included in the project cost since the signal
system is integral to the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor component of the project and its implementation
will be the responsibility of the project management and supervision organization.
Table 4-1 Project Cost Summary
Rupiah billion            US$ million         Foreign as
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total    % of total
1. Policy reform            2.0      7.9     9.9       .9      3.4     4.3    80
2. Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor                  47.5   235.3   282.8    20.4   100.9   121.3    83
3. Track upgrading and
maintenance system       29.2    58.3    87.5    12.5    25.0    37.5    67
4. Locomotive unit
exchange maintenance
system                     4.4    30.5    34.9      1.9    13.1    15.0    87
5. Institutional development  1.9    7.4      9.3     0.8      3.2     4.0    80
6. Base cost                85.0   339.4   424.4    36.5   145.6   182.1    80
Physical contingencies     8.5    20.9    29.4      3.6      9.0    12.6    71
Price contingencies       36.8    82.0   118.8      3.9      8.8    12.7    69
Total project cost         130.3   442.3   572.6    44.0   163.3   207.3    79
F. FINANCING PLAN
4.31   The policy reform component as well as the study of long term demand in the Jakarta-
Bandung corridor would be financed by GOI under the ongoing Technical Assistance Project for
Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure (Ln. 3385-IND) and the Second Project (Ln. 3913-
IND) and in part with funds under the proposed project. GOI, who is the owner of the railways'
infrastructure (track and signaling), would finance the improvements to the Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor and the track upgrading and maintenance system component (including the consultant's
services for project management and training related to the latter) by using funds from an existing
Australian loan, the proposed IBRD loan, and the APBN Rupiah budget. Perumka would finance the
locomotive unit exchange maintenance system, the consultant's services for project management and
training related to the Jakarta-Bandung corridor component and the remaining three items under the
institutional development component using funds from the onlent portion of the proposed IBRD
loan, internal sources, and domestic borrowings. Agreement was reached with GOI during
negotiations that GOI will onlend Perumka 's share of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to it
under the same terms as the Bank loan to GOI plus 0.5 percent. As a condition of effectiveness, a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been signed between GOI and
Perumka.
4.32   The financing plan is summarized in Table 4-2 and detailed in Annex 4-4. The proposed
Bank loan to the Republic of Indonesia, ongoing Loans 3385-IND and 3913-IND, and the Loan from
the Government of Australia would finance direct and indirect foreign cost of investments and
technical assistance totaling US$161 million. GOI and Perumka would finance local costs totaling
US$44 million. The Bank loan would be US$105 million and financing from Loans 3385-IND and
3913-IND would be US$2.4 million.



- 36-
Table 4-2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Source of Financing                    Local      Foreign       Total             %
IBRD proposed loan - lent to GOl                                        85.2        85.2          41
IBRD proposed loan - onlent by GOI to Perumka                            19.8       19.8           10
Total IBRD Loan                                                         105.0      105.0           51
Loans 3385-IND and 3913-IND (Policy Reform)                              2.4         2.4            1
IBRD total                                                              107.4      107.4           52
GOI                                                        39.7            0        39.7           20
Perumka                                                     4.2            0         4.2            1
Government of Australia - lent to GOI (infrastructure)        0         56.0        56.0           27
Total                                                      43.9         163.4      207.3          100
G. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Table 4-3: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million) a/
Note: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts to be financed under the proposed loan.
ICB          NCB          Othier b/     NBF c/            Total
1. Works                       24.1          3.0                         13.4 d/         40.5
(7.2)       (1.8)                                       (9.0)
2. Goods                        85.7                        0.1          62.2 e/        148.0
(83.5)                      (0.1)                       (83.6)
3. Consultants                                             15.5                          15.5
(12.4)                       (12.4)
4. Land Acquisition &                                                     0.9             0.9
Resettlement
Total                          109.8         3.0           15.6          76.5           204.9
(90.7)       (1.8)         (12.5)                       (105.0)
a/   Excluding taxes and interest during construction but including contingencies
b/   Direct contracting and consulting services
c/  NBF indicates "not Bank-financed".
dl   Force account works
e/   Australian-financed signaling (US$ 56 million equivalent) and ballast (US$6.2 million)
4.33   General. Procurement arrangements for the proposed project are summarized in Table 4-3
above. Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" of January 1995 and revised in
January 1996. Civil works contracts estimated at US$3 million equivalent or above would be
procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures (this would involve one or
two contracts). Previous experience in Indonesia indicates that foreign contractors would not bid for
contracts estimated to cost less than this amount. Civil works estimated to cost less than US$3
million per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$3 million may be procured under
NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. This involves environmental upgrading of and repairs to
buildings and facilities at seven sites and the reconstruction of one bridge. These works would be
packaged in two to three contracts. Goods will be procured under ICB, except for goods which must
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or of a proprietary



- 37 -
nature, up to $100,000 equivalent, which, with the Bank's prior agreement may be procured under
direct contracting. Forthe procurement of good and works under ICB, the Bank's standard bidding
documents will be used. Qualifying local manufacturers competing for the supply of goods under
ICB procedures would be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF price or the
import duty, whichever is lower.
4.34   Perumka has been involved in a number of major procurements, including works and
equipment procurement for the JABOTABEK urban railway system and the South Sumatra railway.
Procedures followed were those of GOI and/or foreign lenders. Staffing for major procurements is
on a project basis. Procurement under the Bank's Railway T1echnical Assistance Project was
satisfactory. The Project Management Unit which will be responsible for procurement under the
project will be strengthened with consultants experienced in project management.
4.35   Review. All works bid packages (a total of three to five) will be reviewed by the Bank. Bid
packages for goods to be financed by the Bank loan estimated to cost over US$200,000 equivalent
(over 90% of the procurement volume) would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All consulting
services estimated at or above US$100,000 equivalent to be provided by firms, and at or
aboveUS$50,000 equivalent to be provided by individuals, also would be subject to the Bank's prior
review (over 90% of the procurement volume). Contracts for consultants' services estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms, or less than US$50,000 for individuals will not be subject
to prior review. However, the following will be subject to prior review by the Bank: (a) terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature
as determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts with firms raising the contract value to
US$100,000 equivalent or above; and (e) amendments to contracts for individuals raising the
contract value to US$50,000 equivalent or above. Contracts awarded below the prior review
threshold or on the basis of SOEs would be few and would be subject to random ex-post review by
the Bank's Project Implementation Unit in Indonesia using established sampling procedures.
4.36   Consultants will be selected and engaged in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants", using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services. The
list of consultancy services is shown in Annex 4.2 and includes: (i) policy reform; (ii)
implementation support and training; and (iii) institutional development.
H. DISBURSEMENT
4.37   The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against approved contracts as follows: (a) 30%
of expenditures for the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor track construction works, including improvement
of level crossings, and for replacement of Bridge 433 on the alternative route via Bogor; (b) 60% of
expenditures for the civil works (including pollution abatement equipment) at Yogyakarta, Bandung
and Semarang for locomotive maintenance facilities; (c) 90% of expenditures for the aggregate
amount of the Cikampek-Padalarang signal construction contract; (d) 100% of C.I.F. for directly
imported equipment and materials and 100% of ex-factory expenditures for locally assembled
imported equipment and materials; and (e) 80% of all contracted consulting services expenditures.
Category 5, Unallocated, equals the project physical and price contingencies financed by the
proposed loan (Table 4-4).



- 38 -
Table 4-4 Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Allocation of
Category               Loan  (US$    % of Expenditures to be Financed
million)
I. Civil works for Jakarta-Bandung     6.9        30% of contract expenditures
Corridor
2. Civil works for locomotive unit      1.3       60% of contract expenditures
exchange
3 Jakarta-Bandung Corridor signal     21.5        90% of contract expenditures
supply and installation
4. Equipment and materials             47.7        100% of foreign and 100% of local
(ex-factory) expenditures
5. Consultants' services                9.9       80% of all expenditures
6. Unallocated                         17.7
Total                                 105.0
4.38   Special Account. In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be established
in an amount of US$7 million. This amount will be deposited in Bank Indonesia on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. This Special Account will be held in the name of the Director
General of Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. Replenishment of the
Special Account will be made on a monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been
used, whichever comes first.
4.39   Withdrawal applications would be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan
disbursements would be made, except for materials and equipment valued at less than US$200,000,
and consulting contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals
that would be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE). Documents supporting
the SOEs would be retained by the respective project implementing agencies and would be made
available for review as requested by Bank missions. The estimated disbursement schedule for the
proposed Bank loan is shown in Annex 4.5.
4.40   The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002, and the loan closing date is
September 30. 2002.
1. IMPLEMENTATION
4.41   Overall responsibility for coordinating and guiding the project's implementation will be
vested in the IACC which has already been established by Ministerial Decree. This Committee will
be assisted by the RTF on which Perumka is represented at director level. The project's policy
component will be implemented through this structure. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
GOI will maintain. (i) the IACC to guide and monitor the implementation of the railway
restructuring, and concurrently to act as the Steering Committee for the project, and (ii) the RTF to
manage the preparation of Perumka's conversion to Persero status.



- 39 -
4.42   Technical management of the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor, track upgrading and maintenance,
and locomotive maintenance components, together with the Perumka institutional strengthening
component will be vested in a Project Management Unit to be established within Perumka (PMUP).
Project implementation is scheduled to require five years.
4.43   Reporting to the Project Management Unit Perumka (PMUP) would be three Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) staffed full-time by Perumka personnel:
a)   PIU for Jakarta-Bandung Corridor improvements and track maintenance system, including
related training. Both the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor improvements and the track maintenance
system would be the responsibility of one PIU in order to plan and coordinate track
construction and rail installation in the Corridor and elsewhere on Java;
b)   PIU for Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System, including related training; and
c)   PIU for Perumka institutional development.
4.44   Consultants financed by GOI and the Bank would assist the PMUP and the PIUs in
implementing the project, and their appointment would be a condition of Bank approval of the
associated construction and equipment procurement contracts. At negotiations agreement was
reached that Perumka will maintain the Project Management Unit and the three Project
Implementation Units with staffing satisfactory to the Bank. Because of the complexity of the
interfaces between the various activities and the need for careful scheduling, the consultants should
be assisting the PIUs right from the start. Thus, for the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor Development and
the Track Upgrading and Maintenance System components, Bank approval of the contracts for track
works, supply and installation of signaling, and supply of new rail will be contingent upon the
consultants assisting Perumka in the implementation of these components having been appointed.
4.45   Perumka has prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which was reviewed by the Bank.
This document is part of the project file. The PIP contains the following principal elements for each
component of the project: project description, organizational arrangements, project management
structure, time bound implementation plan including procurement schedule, milestones and
performance indicators, and TORs for the technical assistance components.  The project
management and implementation schedule is presented in Annex 4.6.
J. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
4.46   Monitoring of achievement of the project objectives will cover six main areas: (a) Policy
Reform Implementation; (b) Progress in Rationalization of Capital Investments; (c) Operational
Performance; (d) Financial Performance; (e) Capacity in the Jakarta Bandung Corridor; and (f)
Quality of Service (Annex 4.7). Achievements in the area of policy reform will be tracked by the
dates of key actions of the action plan. The rationalization of capital investments will be monitored
in terms of the percent of investments in the updated core plan which has been developed using
economic/financial analyses. Operational and financial performance will be monitored using some
key performance indicators routinely produced by Perumka for which targets will be agreed with
Perumka each year for the two following years. The result of the development of the Jakarta
Bandung Corridor will be monitored in terms of the theoretical capacity and actual capacity
utilization.



- 40 -
4.47   Project component implementation performance will be monitored primarily against the
implementation plan and schedule (Annex 4.6).
4.48  At negotiations agreement was reached with GOI and Perumka that. (i) achievement of the
project's objectives will be monitored in accordance with performance indicators and targets
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) by September 30 of each year a report will be prepared on the
achievement of the project objectives and performance targets, including any measures to achieve
the objectives, and if necessary in the light of progress achieved and other developments, proposals
for revisions to the targets for the subsequent two years; and (iii) the report will be reviewed with
the Bank, and thereafter all measures necessary will be taken for the completion of the project
components and their objectives and the achievement of the performance targets taking into account
of the Bank's comments. For project component implementation, Perumka would submit to the Bank
quarterly progress reports showing the progress of procurement and construction and the execution
of the technical assistance against the time bound implementation schedules. These progress reports
would be sent to the Bank within 10 days after the close of each quarter. Within six months of
completion of the project, Perumka will furnish to the Bank a completion report on the
implementation of the project.
4.49   The project supervision arrangements are described in Annex 4.8. During the first three
years, two supervision missions are scheduled each year. Subsequently, one supervision mission is
scheduled every nine months. Supervision will focus on: (a) progress with Perumka restructuring;
(b) Perumka's financial and operational performance; (c) the railway infrastructure and Perumka's
investment plans; (d) implementation issues affecting the investment components; and (e) technical
assistance and training issues. Supervision will require expertise in institutional development,
organizational restructuring, marketing and other commercial issues, project management, railway
infrastructure and rolling stock maintenance and rehabilitation, and financial analysis. Staff input is
budgeted for 95 staff-weeks for the five-year implementation period.
K. AUDITING
4.50   The PMUP will be responsible for collecting and consolidating the project accounts and
financial reports, including for disbursements under SOE procedure, in respect of the project
components. At negotiations agreement was reached with GOI and Perumka that the project
accounts, including documentation for payments on the basis of SOEs, will be audited every year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and that the consolidated audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
4.51   At negotiations agreement was reached with Perumka that it shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition, and that it shall have its records, accounts and financial statements for each
financial year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; andfurnish the audited accounts to the Bank within six months of/the end of
the financial year, except for FYs 96 and 9 7 as noted in para. 3.25 above.



CHAPTER 5
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. BENEFITS, BENEFICIARIES AND FISCAL IMPACT
5.1   The policy reform and investmenits under the project will bring about a wide range of
benefits.  First, the improved interface between GOI and Perumnka, through establishment of
mechanisms for compenisationi of PSO and track maintenanice and of the track access charges
system. will make Perumka financially more independent, create incentives for GOI and Perumka
to achieve an efficient balance between track investments and mainiteniance,  and provide a
framework for introducing private participation and competition in track maintenance and train
operations.  Second. the development of a business-oriented organizational structure, a more
rationalized investment and naintenance planniing and budgeting process, improved workforce
management, and modernized operating procedures, will eniable Perumka to better understand the
needs of its customers and focus on providing those services that are competitive with other modes.
It will also improve allocation of scarce resources, increase labor and capital productivity, and
improve railway services in terms of availability, reliability, safety and affordability. Third, the
improvements in the Jakarta-Bandung corridor will increase throughput capacity, improve control
and safety of train operations and service reliability, and better satisfy demand for travel by rail
and relieve traffic on roads. The results will be lower vehicle and road capital and maintenance
costs, less air pollution and environmenital damage, and less highway and urban congestion.
Fourth. the improved track mainitenanice procedures, including greater use of CWR, will extend
rail life, generate savings in track mainiteniance costs, improve safety of trainl operations and reduce
train operating costs.  Fifth, the locomiotive unit exchange maintenance system  will reduce
locomotive mainitenance down timle and allow the existing locomotive fleet to be available for
service a greater portion of time, tlLus generating savin gs in locomotive investment and
maintenance costs.
5.2    The benefits from the expected efficiency improvements in capital spending, maintenance
and operation will accrue to railway passengers and freight shippers. The Indonesian government
and taxpayers in general will also benefit following the plhasing out of subsidies. In terms of fiscal
impact the annual flow of funds between GOI and Perumka is expected to turn from a net negative
flow to a net positive flow in favor of GOI (Table 6-2). In addition, the expected railway service
imiprovemiienits and cost reductions will induce an environmiiientally  more sustainable modal
distribution between rail and road. Better railway services and lower costs will benefit users of all
transport modes and the economy at large. A cleaner enivironlment and fewer accidents will also
benefit most members of the society.
5.3    An economic analysis has been carried out of the tlhree investmiienit componienits: Jakarta -
Bandung corridor improvements, track maintenance system, and locomotive unit exchange
maintenance system, whiclh together represent over 967 of total project costs. The estimated net
present values (NPV) and economic internal rate of returnis (ERR) for each component are
summarized in Table 5- 1. The results show  that the proposed investmiienits are economically
justified. The investmenits yield a total NPV of Rp.348 billion, or US$155 million. The overall
ERR is estimated at 20.9%.



- 42 -
Table 5-1: Net Present Values and Economic Internal Rate of Returns
(in Rupiah billion)
Investment Components                   NPV @ 12%        ERR (%)
Jakarta-Bandung Corridor Improvement       80.9         14.9 %
Track Maintenance System                  228.2         34.8 %
Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance       38.6         26.3 %
Total NPV and Overall ERR                 347.7         20.9 %
B. JAKARTA - BANDUNG CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
5.4   The Jakarta-Bandung Corridor connects two urban agglomerations totaling some 20 million
people and is one of the most important intercity passenger transport markets in Java. The corridor
is served by rail, road and air. The rail passenger services transport over 3.5 million people per
year (2.5 million by executive and business classes and I million by economy class), capturing
about 17% of the total passenger traffic between Jakarta and Bandung.  Some 50% of the
passengers travel by car, 33 % by bus, and less than I % by air.
5.5   Executive and business rail traffic has enjoyed a strong growth, averaging 12. 1 % and 8.4%
respectively per year from 1987 to 1995. This has been led by the rapid urbanization and steadily
growing economy and personal income. It is also due to the higher quality of the rail passenger
services relative to the available car or bus transport. It takes about two hours and 45 minutes to
travel between Jakarta and Bandung by rail, but some three to four hours by car and nearly five
hours by bus. Rail travel is also more comfortable and much safer than road travel. Road traffic
accidents are a serious problem in Indonesia. Average fatality rates are about ten times higher than
in most industrialized countries. The Jakarta-Cikampek toll road, which is the first section of the
road link between Jakarta and Bandung, has a particularly high traffic accident rate. On the
mountainous section between Purwakarta and Bandung, the road is narrow, twisting and on fairly
steep gradients. Trucks hold up traffic going up hill and poorly tuned engines cause pollution.
Buses travel at high speeds downhill. Construction of the new toll road between Cikampek and
Padalarang, which is scheduled to start in 1996 and to be opened to traffic in 2000, is expected to
improve the road traffic condition and reduce travel time to between two and half to three hours.
5.6   Freight transport between Jakarta and Bandung is served by rail and road. Containers
carrying general cargo - mostly manufactured consumer goods such as textiles, tea and garments
for export - from Gedebage to Tanjung Priok are the most important traffic by rail in the Jakarta-
Bandung Corridor. The expansion of consumer goods export has led to an impressive growth in
container transport between Bandung and Jakarta. From a modest start of 2,600 containers (in
Twenty Foot Equivalent Units TEUs) in 1987, the traffic reached some 60,000 TEUs in 1993.
Due to a variety of factors such as strong road competition, rail capacity constraints, and
cumbersome terminal processing at Gedebage dry port, rail container traffic has been steady on
60,000 TEUs per year from 1993 to 1995.
5.7    Alternatives. During the past several years a number of alternative investments designed to
cope with growing traffic in the Jakarta-Bandung corridor have been under consideration. This
includes proposals analyzed in 1988 (under French financing), in 1993 (under Japanese financing)
and most recently in 1995 (under Dutch and World Bank financing). The investments proposed
under the project are a sca!ed down version of these earlier more ambitious proposals. They are



- 43 -
minimum "no regrets" investment which were formulated on the basis of simulations of alternative
investment scenarios aimed at meeting traffic demand up to the year 2020 in thie corridor in the
most cost effective manner (para 4.10-4.11).  Funds are included under the project to replicate
such corridor investment optimization studies for capacity planning on a wider scale and to assess
investment requirements in the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor beyond the year 2020.
5.8    For the economic evaluation of proposed investments, the base case scenario represents the
situation where a minimum level of track maintenance investment is made which is necessary to
sustain the current level of rail services. The project case scenario represents the situation where
the proposed investments are fully implemented by 2001. For purposes of defining the investment
costs of the project case it is to be noted that the double track railway line between Jakarta and
Cikampek (Box 4. 1) serves not only traffic to and from Bandung, but also carries all trains to and
from points east of Jakarta, such as traffic to and from Surabaya, Solo, Yogyakarta, Cirebon and
Semarang. Thus, the investments in the Jakarta-Cikamapek section of the corridor will benefit all
train operations east of Jakarta and not only those to Bandung. Accordingly, the economic and
financial evaluation considers only the traffic flows to/from Jakarta with Bandung as their
origin/destination on the one hand, and all investments on the line between Cikampek and Bandung
and a proportion of the investments on the Jakarta-Cikampek line on the other.
5.9    On the basis of the historical trend and the expected growth in urbanization, economic
activities and personal income, and taking into account the effects of competition from road and
tariff increases, it is projected that total executive and business passenger traffic would reach some
11 million by 2017, when the track's capacity, which is expanded by the proposed investment,
shall be reached. From the start of project implementation in 1997 to the end of the 20-year
evaluation period, 2021, the passenger traffic is expected to grow at an average rate of 6% per
year. For container transport, no growth is assumed during the project implementation period.
Upon completion of the project, traffic is projected to grow slowly, averaging less than 3% per
year over the evaluation period, and approach 120,000 TEUs by 2021.
5.10   The economic analysis compares total costs between the base case and the project case.
The costs considered include rail and road capital and maintenance costs, rail rolling stock and
vehicle ownership and operating costs. Investment costs under the project case include a 10%
physical contingency. Because the Jakarta-Bandung traffic flow accounts for some 35 % of the total
traffic between Bekasi-Cikampek (Box 4.1) 40% of the investments within the Bekasi-Cikampek
section (mainly the Australian financed signaling works28) are apportioned to the costs of the
project case. The ERR of the investment is 12.3%. When estimates of savings in transit time
costs (using a value of time of Rp. 1,400 per hour), and air pollution and accident costs are taken
into account the ERR is 14.9%.
5.11   A  financial analysis has also been carried  out to examine whether the proposed
improvements are financially sound. The analysis compares net rail revenues between the base
case and the project case. The financial IRR is estimated at 11.7%.
28 Even though this investment in signaling had been firmed up independently of the projeci - the contract had
been signed before the evaluations for the capacity improvements under the project had been completed - it is
treated as integral part of the corridor development investments because: (i) it is aimed at addressing
existing capacity constraints in the Jakarta-Bandung corridor; and (ii) its implementation needs to be very
closely coordinated with the Bank financed investment.



- 44 -
C. TRACK MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
5.12   Rail has a finite life which depends among other factors, on the quality of its maintenance,
and the quality of roadbed and track maintenance. Under the project Perumka would implement,
with the assistance of consultants, an improved track maintenance system on Java. Key elements
include: (i) the use of continuous welded rail (CWR) for both new and relay rail, whereby part
worn rail will be reprocessed in a new rail reclamation yard and then be relaid in secondary main
track and yards; and (ii) new field maintenance procedures, including on-site hand welding and
small-machine grinding of worn rail, will be introduced to extend the life of rail, turnouts, and
other track components.
5.13   Alternatives. During project preparation alternative maintenance equipment options were
considered and those that were not found cost effective or incompatible with Perumka's absorptive
capacity were not retained (e.g. acquisition of a rail grinding train). The improved procedures to
be introduced under this component were developed based on a review of rail life achieved under
current procedures and practices on the one hand and good international best practice in track
maintenance and Perumka's institutional capacity on the other.
5. 14  With the improved maintenance system in place and operational, it is expected that the rail
life will be extended by a factor of three. This means significant savings in annual track capital
costs, amounting to some two thirds (60%) of current levels. Additional benefits include the
reduction of rolling stock maintenance costs, fewer slow running orders and rail failures, and
lower associated delay and accident costs.
5.15  The economic analysis compares the net investments and track capital and maintenance cost
between the base case and the project case. The expected savings in rolling stock maintenance and
operating costs are not included. Since the new rail and track materials would be provided in the
base case as well as in the project case, the net investment costs between the two cases consist
mostly of costs of the rail reclamation yard, rail train, and consultant services. The savings in
track capital costs are assumed to materialize over a period of seven years, as the improved
maintenance system  spreads gradually over the whole Java network.  The rail and track
maintenance costs under the improved maintenance system are assumed to increase over the project
period to twice the current level. The NPV of the this project component is estimated at Rp.228
billion and the ERR at 34.8%.
D. LOCOMOTIVE UNIT EXCHANGE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM
5.16   A diesel locomotive consists of a frame and some twenty five major components, such as
diesel engine, generator, compressor, traction motors, etc. Currently, these components are not
overhauled at their individual most cost effective intervals but when the locomotives get their
overhauls (a semi-overhaul every two years and a general overhaul every four years). As a result,
some components are overhauled too early, wasting service time and spare parts, while others are
overhauled too late, leading to early and more frequent failures or a costly repair or replacement.
The on-time preventive maintenance system under this project is designed to address this problem
by overhauling a locomotive component when the component is due, rather than when the
locomotive is due for an overhaul.
5.17   Overhauling a component takes a long time during which the locomotive does not provide
any services. In order to eliminate the locomotive down time when a component is taken off the



- 45 -
locomotive for an overhaul, this project component also introduces a unit exchange system, which
will provide a ready-for-use pool of spare components that can be immediately installed to replace
the overhauled component. The practice of combining on-time maintenance system with a unit
exchange system has been practiced successfully in many countries including India and Malaysia.
5.18   Alternatives. During project preparation, alternative investment scenarios for rolling stock
maintenance were examined and sub-components that were found not viable (e.g. upgrading of the
wagon and coach workshops) were not retained. The component has been designed following a
review of Perumka's locomotive maintenance procedures and practices on the one hand and good
international practice, lessons of experience and Perumka's institutional capacity on the other. The
implementation arrangements include measures to safeguard against the most common risks of
failure to implement a unit exchange maintenance system.
5.19  On time maintenance, rather than maintenance at the time of component failure, is expected
to lead to fewer locomotive failures. From the present 60 failures per million kilometers - the
without project case, the failure rate is expected to decrease to around 10 failures per million
kilometers (i.e., 1/6 the current level) - the with project case. On average about 140 failures a
year in locomotives result in locomotives being sent to the workshop for major repair work and a
locomotive remains in the workshop for an average of 30 days. Therefore, about 4,200 locomotive
days annually are lost due to failures. With the program carried out and the failure rate lowered to
one sixth the current level, some 3,500 locomotive days are put to operational use, which is
equivalent to adding about 10 locomotives to Perumka's fleet.
5.20   Using readily available exchange components from the exchange unit pool, the program is
also expected to shorten locomotive downtime, resulting in higher locomotive availability.
Locomotive availability is expected to increase from the present 70%, the without project case, to
about 80%. Given the existing fleet of 142 diesel electric locomotives on Java, this 10% increase
means an additional 14 locomotives available for train service.
5.21   As the quality of maintenance improves, the need for daily checks will diminish. Almost
immediately, current daily checks, the without project case, will be replaced by checks every other
day. Total elimination of daily checks by checks every other day is expected to come within a year
and monthly inspections could come to replace checks every other day within two years (the with
program case). This would save some 37,000 locomotive hours per year, or an equivalent of four
additional locomotives.
5.22  In total, the program can add an equivalent of 28 locomotives to the current fleet of 142 on
Java. The economic analysis assumes that the full extent of the locomotive savings would be
gradually realized over a period of six years. The analysis shows that the program will yield a
NPV of Rp.39 billion and an ERR of 26.3%.
E. RISKS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
5.23   With regard to the policy component, a main risk is resistance to needed rail subsector
reforms from some quarters within GOI. While senior officials at MOC, BAPPENAS and
Ekuwasbang have strongly endorsed the project, resistance by reform averse groups within
government and outside is possible. This risk is recognized by those in GOI who are strongly
committed to continuation of the reform process. BAPPENAS can be expected to take a lead role
in securing timely implementation of the policies. To manage this risk, at negotiations agreement



- 46 -
would be reached on specific and monitorable actions of the reform agenda and annual review of
progress.
5.24   Regarding rationalization of investments, a risk is that influences from outside the railway
would stand in the way of sound capital investnents and prudent management of the assets of the
railway. There may be pressure to purchase rolling stock from favored foreign or domestic
suppliers or there may be directed decisions regarding asset disposal. This risk would be managed
by fostering a clear and transparent governance structure related to capital investment and financing
through annual reviews of the investment program and the financial projections.
5.25   While the three investment components would be insulated from  the above risks their
implementation entails component specific risks. The main risk relating to the Jakarta-Bandung
corridor component and track maintenance component is that implementation could suffer delays
due to the need to work within short "windows" when the line is available. To mitigate this risk,
one integrated implementation unit would be established for these two components to plan,
coordinate and monitor track construction and rail installation. The risk relating to the locomotive
unit exchange maintenance system is that the spare parts procured would be used for consumption
rather than for unit exchange maintenance pools.  For this component to be successful, the
locomotive depots must be operated as extensions of the locomotive workshop, and the workshop
must be reorganized to provide sufficient repaired and new components and parts to replenish the
unit exchange pools.
5.26   If the above delays and adverse events would materialize, costs would increase and savings
would be reduced. Other possible adverse events include lower than predicted traffic and savings
in transit time and pollution and accident costs. These risks were assessed through a series of
sensitivity analyses. The results, presented in table 5-2, show that the investments yield robust
economic returns.  Even under the scenario for the Jakarta-Bandung corridor component where
both passenger and freight traffic are 20%  below forecast, project cost is overrun by 25%  and
completion delayed by 2 years, the ERR is still 9.9%.
Table 5-2: Results of Sensitivity Analysis
Project Components and Scenarios                            NPV @12%           IRR
(Rp billion)      (%)
Jakarta-Bandung Corridor Improvement
Base scenario                                                80.8          14.9 %
(a) Passengers 20% lower than base case                         32.2           13.3 %
(b) Freight 20% lower than base case                            76.6           14.8 %
(c) Scenarios (a) and (b) combined                              27.9           13.1 %
(d) 25% cost overrun and completion delayed 2 years             61.6           14.1 %
(e) Scenarios (a), (b) and (d) combined                          7.4          12.3 %
(f) Exclude transit time savings                                62.8          14.3 %
(g) Exclude pollution and accident cost savings                 26.5          13.1 %
(h) Scenarios (f) and (g) combined                               8.5          12.3 %
(i) Scenarios (a), (b), (d), (f) and (g) combined              -51.2           9.9 %
Track Maintenance System
Base scenario                                               228.3          34.8 %
(a) Project cost overrun 25%                                   224.6          33.8 %
(b) Total cost savings 25% lower than base case                 167.6         33.4 %
Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance
Base scenario                                                38.6          26.3 %
(a) Project cost overrun 25%                                    33.0          22.4 %
(b) Total cost savings 25% lower than base case                 23.3          21.3 %



CHAPTER 6
FINANCIAL EVALUATION AND FORECAST
A. INTRODUCTION
6.1    The restructuring of Perumka and the reforms in its relationship with Government to be
implemented over the next several years will have far reaching consequences for Perumka's
finances. It is, therefore, necessary to set out the main elements of the framework underlying the
financial projections and evaluation. First, the financial projections are developed using key inputs
from Perumka's "core" corporate plan (para. 3.43). Second, they are predicated on the financial
relationship between the Government and Perumka being reformed as outlined in Chapter 3 with the
introduction of the PSO and track maintenance compensation mechanisms and the track charges
system with effect of 1997. Third, they are based on the objective that the corporation should
become financially self-sufficient and will need to finance its investments from internally generated
resources and borrowing.
6.2    While  the "core" corporate plan provides the most realistic starting point possible for
evaluating Perumka's financial situation and outlook, it needs to be recognized that during this
period of transition to a fundamentally different corporate and financial environment the "core"
corporate plan and financial projections will not only need to be updated annually, but may have to
undergo major modifications in future years owing, inter alia, to: (i) a rationalization in lines of
business whereby only those unprofitable services which are explicitly required by government and
for which compensation is provided under the PSO mechanism will be continued; (ii) the impact of
efficiency improvements; and (iii) private participation schemes being implemented.
B. PERUMKA'S FINANCIAL FORECAST UNDER THE NEW POLICY FRAMEWORK
6.3    The Objective of Financial self-sufficiency. This objective is to generate funds sufficient to
cover operating costs, all financial obligations including debt service charges, and contribute toward
future investments for renewal and expansion of assets. The review of Perumka's operations and
past financial performance in Chapter 3 indicated that tariff increases for potentially profitable
services and discontinuation of unprofitable services will be essential if it is to achieve the objective
of financial self-sufficiency.
6.4   The base year for the financial projections is 1996. The main variables are derived from the
"core" corporate plan which differs from Perumka's approved budget in that the assumptions on
capacity, traffic growth, tariff increases and investments have been adjusted so as to make them
internally consistent. The year 1997 will be a transition year as the key elements of the new
financial relationship between GOI and Perumka will come into effect in that year. These elements
and the main parameters include:
a) Introduction of the PSO compensation mechanism with effect of the FY97/98 GOI budget
year. The unit compensation (per passenger/km and ton/km) is assumed to decline in line
with productivity improvements and fare/tariff increases;



- 48 -
b) Introduction of the infrastructure maintenance compensation mechanism with effect of the
FY97/98 budget year. The compensation is to be based on efficient costs for maintaining the
infrastructure to defined standards and to comprise outlays for materials, direct labor, general
staff and an administrative expenses component. For 1997 the payment was estimated to
amount to Rp 182 billion. This compares to an actual payment of Rp 31.5 billion for 1995;
and
c) Introduction of a track access charges system whereby Perumka would pay GOI for the use
of the track. This charge has been estimated at 2.1 Rp/gtkm.
6.5    Moreover, other key assumptions used to develop the financial projections include that
traffic will continue to grow in line with past trends (i.e. initially 8.5% per year for executive and
business class reducing to 7.5% by 2001, and 5% per year for economy class), that Perumka will
adjust its tariffs taking into account costs and market conditions and that selective investments will
be carried out to replace existing rolling stock and/or to meet growing demand. Productivity
increases were also adopted for fleet utilization and locomotive utilization. Major assumptions and
notes underlying the financial forecast are described in Annex 6.1. Details of calculations and other
information are in the Project file.
6.6    Financial Projections for Perumka.   The Projected  Income Statement, Cash Flow
Statement and Balance Sheet are shown in Tables 3, 4 and 5 of Annex 6.1. The main results and
financial performance indicators are summarized below:
Table 6-1: Summary Financial Projections and Indicators
1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002
(Rp. Billion in Current Prices)
Operating Revenues             696      991      1,134    1,270      1,425    1,611      1,828
Operating Costs                676      910      1,074     1,192     1,325    1,470      1,648
Net Operating Revenues          20       81         60       78        100      141        180
Interest Charges                 4       28        46        66        68        86       105
Income Tax                       5       16         4         4         9        17        23
Revenue After Tax               12       37         9         8        22        39        53
of which:
Dividend to GOI                6       20          5        5         12       21         29
Retained by Perumka            6        17         4        3         10       18         24
Performance Indicators
Working Ratio (%)             90       85         83       82         82       81         80
Operating Ratio (%)           97        92        95       94         93       91         90
Return on NF Assets (%)1       2        6          2        2          3        4          5
Debt Service Cov. Ratio      10.3      3.4       2.8       2.2       2.2       2.0       2.1
Self Fin. Ratio (3 yr avg.)(%)  28     27         42       39         39       36         40
Current Ratio                 3.1      2.9       2.9       2.7       2.6       2.5       2.8
Debt/Equity Ratio (%)          3        13        11       14         17       20         23
1/ From 1998 on revalued assets.



- 49 -
6.7    The above indicators show encouraging financial development for the corporation. The
operating ratio improves from 97% in 1996 to 90% in 2002. The return on net fixed assets (revalued
in 1998) improves from 2% to 5% over the same period. Perumka will be able to accumulate a cash
surplus of Rp. 233 billion by 2002 (Annex 6.1, Table 4). The Self-Financing Ratio will be 27% in
1997 and thereafter will gradually rise to 40% in 2002. The Debt Service Coverage Ratio will
remain within a comfortable range of 2.0 to 3.4 from 1997 to 2002. GOI's net cash outflow to
Perumka will gradually decrease from a high of Rp. 95 billion in 1998 to Rp. 32 billion in 2000, and
thereafter, it will begin to experience a net fund in-flow from Perumka (Table 6-2). This indicates
that the railway operations will become a source of income for GOI.
Table 6-2: Flow of Funds between GOI and Perumka
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Funds from Perumka to Govt.   11    206    203    237    288    345    414   1,706
Funds from Govt. to Perumka   37     276    298    306    320    339    360    1,936
Net from Perumka to Govt.    (25)   (70)   (95)   (69)   (32)       6      55    (231)
6.8    The projected Balance Sheet results (Table 5, Annex 6. 1) indicate that the Current Ratio,
Acid Test Ratio and the Debt/Equity Ratio would remain at acceptable levels. However, Perumka
will need to monitor closely its high debt service obligations caused by substantial but much needed
investments.  The projections indicate that Perumka should be able to achieve financial self-
sufficiency provided: (i) the financial relationship between GOI and Perumka is reformed in
accordance with the arrangements for introduction of the PSO and track maintenance compensation
payments and the track access charges system outlined above: and (ii) productivity improvements
and fare/tariff increases materialize. More precise evaluations and cost estimates to firm up the PSO
and track maintenance compensation and the track charges for 1997 are being carried out with the
assistance of consultants. Accordingly, the actual payments in 1997 and subsequent years could be
different from those underlying these financial projections. Perumka will, therefore, need to monitor
closely and update its financial projections and key financial indicators to reflect the outcome of the
estimates for the compensation and charging mechanisms, in particular for the first year, and take all
necessary action to maintain its financial self-sufficiency.
C. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
6.9    To assess the risks attached to the above financial projections, sensitivity analyses were
carried of the key parameters likely to impact on Perumka's financial outlook. These include: the
compensation payments to Perumka and track access charges paid by Perumka, the timeliness and
adequacy of tariff adjustments, the realization of productivity and traffic increases, and the level of
new investment. Sensitivity analyses were carried under the following scenarios: (a) tariff increases
are only half those of the base case assumptions; (b) the compensation mechanism for PSO and
infrastructure maintenance and the track access charges system are not implemented; (c) Perumka
does not achieve any productivity increases; and (d) traffic growth is reduced by 20%, The results
are shown in Table 6.3.



- 50 -
Table 6-3: Sensitivity Analyses
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Base Case
Self Financing Ratio (%)                   28%    27%    42%    39%    39%    36%    40%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                 10.3   3.4    2.8    2.2    2.2    2.0    2.1
Return on Net Fixed Assets(%)               2%     6%      2%     2%      3%     4%      5%
Sensitivity Analysis
a) If tariffs increased by 50% over base case:
Self-Financing Ratio                     28%    21%    22%      6%     0%    -9%    -15%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio              10.3   3.3    2.0    1.2    1.0    0.8    0.7
Return on NF Assets (%)                  2%      5%     1%      1%     1%      0%     0%
b) If no PSO and track maintenance payments and no access charges:
Self-Financing Ratio                     28%    6%      14%    18%    30%    34%    40%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio              10.3    1.3    1.5    1.5    1.8    1.8    2.1
Return on NF Assets (%)                  2%    -1%    -1%       0%     1%      3%     5%
c) If no productivity improvements by Perumka:
Self-Financing Ratio                     20%    16%    15%    2%    -3%   -10%   -13%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio              10.3   2.3    1.5    1.1    0.9    0.8    0.8
Return on NF Assets (%)                  2%      5%     1%      1%     1%      1%     1%
d) If traffic growth is 20% less than base case:
Self-Financing Ratio                     31%    32%    52%    51%    53%    50%    55%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio              10.3   3.8    3.3    2.8    2.9    2.7    2.8
Retur on NF Assets (%)                   2%      5%     2%      2%     3%      3%     4%
l/ Based on revalued assets for 1998.
6.10   The above results indicate that Perumka's financial viability is highly sensitive to tariff
adjustments and productivity improvements. If these unfavorable scenarios were to materialize, net
cash flow would become negative which would make it impossible for Perumka to meet the debt
service obligations and to contribute to future investments.   While under scenario b) (the
compensation payments and track access charges are not implemented), Perumka's financial
situation initially deteriorates, it is comparable to the base case by the year 2002. This is because
the loss of the maintenance payments is more than compensated by the non-payment of access
charges.
6.11   These evaluations also show that Perumka should monitor closely and update annually its
financial performance indicators (Table 6-1).  Because of the uncertainty of the impacts of
Perumka's restructuring to a commercially and financially autonomous enterprise on its financial
performance, key targets should be reviewed annually and revised if deemed necessary in the light of
experience and remedial actions taken or to be taken when targets are not being met. Given the
critical importance of appropriate PSO and track maintenance compensation payments and
appropriate track access charges for: (i) introducing a commercial approach in performing services;
(ii) distinguishing between market-driven and socially driven services; (iii) providing incentives for
operational efficiency; (iv) providing incentives for appropriate maintenance; and (v) compensating



- 51 -
GOI for track usage, at negotiations agreement was reached with GOI that it will establish and
maintain these arrangements in place and refine them in the light of experience (paras 3.60-66).
6.12   Furthermore, agreement waxi reached with Perumka that it will:
a)  take all such measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, controlling costs,
improving productivity and developing new services or discontinuing unprofitable services,
as shall be required to generate each year funds from internal sources sufficient to cover
operating costs, debt service charges and other financial obligations and to achieve a self
financing ratio of not less than 20% during 1997 - 2000 and not less than 25% thereafter of
the annual average capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year,
the previous year and nextfollowing year;
b)  incur additional debt only if the iniernal cash generation would provide a minimum debt
service coverage ratio of 1.5 times during the forecast period,
c)  by September 30 of each year review and report on the progress in meeting the above
requirements and if deemed necessary in the light of its achievements in meeting the targets,
propose remedial actions and/or new targets for the current year and the next following year
for the Bank's comments; and
d)  establish revised targets taking into account the Bank's comments.
6.13   Perumka's assets are recorded at historical costs. With the view of its transformation into a
limited liability company as per I January 1998, Perumka plans to carry out a revaluation of its
assets by December 31, 1997. At negotiations, agreement was reached with Perumka that it will:
(i) prepare proposals for a revaluation of its assets by September 30, 1997 for review by the Bank;
(ii) finalize the revaluation of assets taking into account the Bank 's comments; and (iii) record the
revalued assets in its books as of January 1, 1998.






CHAPTER 7
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements reached with the Government
7.1    At negotiations agreement was reached with GOI that it will:
a)  annually (i) furnish to the Bank by September 30 its draft core railway infrastructure
investment plan, prepared using cost/benefit analyses on a corridor approach and taking into
account Perumka's corporate plan; and (ii) finalize the core plan taking into account the
Bank's comments (para. 3.40);
b)  (i) establish a mechanism for compensating Perumka for its PSO with effect of FYI 997/98;
(ii) cause Perumka to prepare annually by June 30 a report on the PSO compensation during
the previous year; and (iii) maintain the mechanism in operation during subsequent years and
refine it in the light of experience (para. 3.62);
c)  (i) establish a mechanism  for compensating Perumka for the costs it incurs for rail
infrastructure maintenance and operation with effect of FY1997/98; (ii) cause Perumka to
prepare annually by June 30 a report on the compensation mechanism during the previous
year; and (iii) maintain the mechanism in operation during subsequent years and refine it in
the light of experience (para. 3.64);
d)  not provide to Perumka, whether directly or indirectly, any funds or financing other than: (i)
loans on terms no more favorable than those available from commercial lenders; and
(ii) payments in accordance with the PSO compensation and infrastructure maintenance
compensation mechanisms (para. 3.65);
e)  (i) prepare by December 31, 1996 proposals for the design and phased implementation of a
track access charges system; (ii) establish the system with effect of FY1997/98; (ii) cause
Perumka to prepare annually by June 30 a report on the operation of the system during the
previous year; and (iv) maintain the system in operation during subsequent years and refine it
in the light of experience (para. 3.66);
f)  (i) implement by February 28, 1997 the financial separation of the Jabotabek and Java inter-
urban rail systems; (ii) furnish to the Bank by October 31, 1997 a program for the
restructuring of Perumka into a limited liability company (Persero) and a proposal for the
managerial separation of the Jabotabek and Java inter-urban rail systems; and (iii) taking into
account the Bank's comments, establish such company and implement the proposal with
effect from January 1, 1998 (para. 3.70);
g)  (i) by June 30, 1997 identify and evaluate commercial opportunities for railway development
in Java and Sumatra and for exploiting Perumka's land assets; (ii) by October 31, 1997
formulate guidelines and procedures for soliciting and negotiating private participation
through concession and other arrangements; (iii) furnish the guidelines and procedures to the
Bank for its review and, thereafter, taking into account the Bank's comments finalize the
guidelines (para. 3.72);



- 53-
h)  review the current draft GR for implementing Law 13/92; prepare final drafts taking into
account the Bank's comments; and issue the GR thereafter (para. 3.73);
i)  maintain  (i) the  Inter-Agency  Coordinating  Committee  to  guide and  monitor the
implementation of the railway sector restructuring and, concurrently, to act as the Steering
Committee for the project; and (ii) the RTF to manage the preparations for Perumka's
conversion to Persero status (paras. 3.75 and 4.41);
j)  onlend Perumka's share of the proceeds of the proposed loan to Perumka under the same
terms as the Bank loan plus 0.5 per cent per annum (para. 4.31);
k)  (i) monitor implementation of the restructuring program (as set out in Annex 4.8) agreed
under the project, (ii) annually by September 30 report on progress and make proposals for
any measures to achieve the objectives or for revisions to the targets; and (iii) take all
measures to complete the restructuring program and achieve its objectives taking into
account the Bank's comments (para. 4.48).
Agreements reached with Perumka
7.2    At negotiations, agreement was reached with Perumka that it will:
a)  annually (i) furnish to the Bank by September 30 its draft corporate plan and associated core
investment plan, prepared taking into account its financial situation, updated traffic forecasts,
operational efficiency, available rolling stock and other pertinent factors; and (ii) finalize and
carry out the corporate plan and associated core investment plan taking into account the
Bank's comments (para. 3.44);
h)  annually prepare and furnish to GOI and the Bank by June 30, reports evaluating the
implementation of: (i) the PSO mechanism; (ii) the infrastructure maintenance compensation
mechanism; and (iii) the track access charges system (paras 3.62, 3.64, 3.66);
c)  maintain its Quality Assurance Unit and strengthen its capabilities in the environmental,
occupational health and safety areas (para. 3.74);
d)  for purposes of carrying the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected persons, implement
the RAP agreed with the Bank, and furnish to the Bank an evaluation report upon completion
of the resettlement and rehabilitation (para. 4.25);
e)  implement the environmental action and monitoring plans and incorporate appropriate
environmental mitigation measures in the conditions of contract for the Jakarta-Bandung
track works contract (para. 4.27);
f)  maintain the Project Management Unit (PMUP) and the three Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) with staffing satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.44);
g)  (i) monitor implementation of the project components and achievement of its objectives in
accordance with agreed indicators and targets; (ii) annually by September 30 report on
progress and make proposal for any measures to achieve the objectives or for revisions to the
targets; (iii) take all measures to complete the project and achieve its objectives taking into
account the Bank's comments; and (iv) within six months of completion of the project,
furnish a project completion report to the Bank (paras. 4.48 and 6.12 c) and d));



- 54-
h)  take all measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, controlling costs,
improving productivity and developing new services or discontinuing unprofitable services,
as shall be required to generate funds during each of its financial years sufficient to cover
operating costs, debt service charges and other financial obligations and to achieve a self-
financing ratio of not less than 20% during 1997 - 2000 and not less than 25% thereafter of
the annual average capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred for that year, the
previous financial year and the next following year (para. 6.12 a));
i)  shall not incur any debt unless the internal cash generation would provide a minimum debt
service coverage ratio of 1 .5 times during the forecast period (para. 6.12 b)); and
j)  shall carry out a revaluation of fixed assets by December 31, 1997 and record the revalued
assets in its books as of January 1, 1998 (para. 6.13).
Condition of Effectiveness
7.3    A condition of effectiveness would be that a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been signed between GOI and Perumka (para. 4.31).
Recom mendation
7.4    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a loan of
US$105.0 million to the Republic on Indonesia, for a period of 20 years including a grace period of
5 years, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar single currency loans.






-55-
ANNEXES






INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERUMKA ORGANIZATION CHART
Chief
Director
Head
Internal Audit
Finance                  Operations &                                  Technical                  Personnel &
Director                   Marketing                                    Director                General Affairs
Director                                                                Director
Head                                        Head
Education &          --   Planning & R&D
Training Center                                 Center
Head                         Head                        Head                         Head
North Sumatra                West Sumatra                South Sumatra              Java Commercial
Region                       Region                      Region                      Region
>x






Indonesia
Railway Efficiency Project
Railway Traffic, Financial and Operational Indicators 1985/86 - 1995
PJKA                                                Perumka                            Annual Growth
19851861  19861871 1987/881 1988/891 19891901    1990         19911    19921    1993-       19941    1995 85/86-1990   1990-95
Traffic
Passenger-km (m)           7,289     7,535     7,755     7,996     8,594     9,342     9,767    10.510    12,377    13,421    15,551     5 1%        10 7%
First Class                 380      409       398       442       470       486       503       554       586       637       873     5.0%        1244%
Second Class              1.122     1,271     1,350     1,450     1,672     1.657    1,681     1,763     1.883     2,247     2,704     8 1%        10 3%
Third Class      a)       5,787     5.855     6,007     6,104    6,452     7,199     7,583     8,193     9,908    10,537    11,974     4 5%        10.7%
Freight net ton-km (m)      1,355     1,575    1,901     2,244     2,976     3,190     3,469     3,781     3,955     3,989     4.173    18.7%         5 5%
Operating Income
Total Revenues            122.105   133.791   161,092   188,586  222,868 | 196,355  323,482   393,314   470,483  507,700   592,400       100%        24 7%
Total Expenses            197,622   218.146   219,333   256,488   302,835, 263,685   331,222   397,946   468,452  502.500   581.700      5 90%       17 1%
Operating Income          (75.517)  (84.355)  (58,241)  (67,902)  (79,967)1 (67,330)   (7.740)   (4.632)    2,031    5,200    10,700     n m          n.m._
|Working Ratio    b)   l   128%|   127%|   103%1    106%|   108%|   101%0                94%1      94%1    92%        90%       89%1   -4 5%         -2.6%
Operating Ratio    c)       162%[   163%        136%      1360/     136%1    134%       102%      101%/    100%0      99%/      980/    -37%/    |   -61%
Real Unit Revenues (in tems of Rp 1995)
Passenger (Rpipkm)
FirstClass                  550      484       438       49.3      494       60.9      687       867      106.4      912       894     21%          80%
Second Class                34.2      31.3     30.0      32.2      31.8      33.9      36 0      43 0      46.0      43 1      39 3    -0 2%        3 0%0
ThIrd Class                 18.9     17.3      15 1      14.6      15.8      14.5      13 9      14.3      13.8      139       132    -52%         -1 9%                              '.0
Freight (Rp/ntkm)            51.5      48 5      42.9      435       41.1      42.1      429      43.7      430       41 0      38.8   -40%          -1.6%
Real Unit Costs (in terms of Rp 1996)
Rp/Traffic Unit    d)        39.6      37 61     31.51    33.31      33 91    31.61      31.21    33 31     31 01    28 81      29 5|   -4 4%        -1.4%
|Rp/Traffic Unit    e) J      32.0      298       24 3      246_    24.3       22.9      223       239       22.7      214       223    -6.5%        -05%
Availability (%)
Locomotive                    n a       na        n a |      701      751       746       76        761       761       761       791   42           0.8%
Coach                         na        na.       na         80        78       74        79        82        78        811       82    -38%         2.1%
Wagon                   |     n.a       na.       na.        80        75        66        74        77        78        841      85    -92%          52%
Utilization (kminday)
nLocomotive                   n a       na        n a       279       327       3311      3381      3721      3481      3681     3791   89%0          27%
iCoach                 |      na.       n a.     n.a       423       416       372       386       488       435       443       451    -.2%         3 9%
|Wagon                        n.a       n.a.      na.        52        71        48        43        58        80        86       87    -3.9%         126%
Productivity
Freight (net tonitrain)       n a       n a.1     n a |     196      2431      2241      2291      2451      2491      3031      n a |   6.9%        7.8%
lWagon Turnround (day)        n.a       n a.      na.        861      68        7.6       7.1       4.9       4.1       4.0       391   -6.0%/       -12 5%/
a) Includes Jabotabek commercial passengers
b) Operabng expenses, less depreciation, divided by operating revenues
c) Operating expenses divided by operating revenues
d) Traffic unit=passenger-km+net ton-km                                                                                                                                                ID
e) Traffic unrt=passenger-km+2 5-nel ton-km (reflecting relative cost)                                                                                                                 H
n.a not available, n.m. not meaningful



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERUMKA PASSENGER TRAFFIC 1994 & 1988/89
1994                          AV ANNUAL GROWTH 1988/89-1994
SYSTEM        TRAFFIC         PASS  PASS-KM REVENU  AV.HAULI AV. REV   PASS  PASS-KM REVENU {AV.HAULj AV. REV
(10A3)   (10A6) (RpxiOA6   (Km)  (Rp/PKm)   (%)         (%)      (%)       (%)      (%)
JAVA       CLASS !               1,544      618   53,035      400      85.8    11.1%     6.9%    33.2%    -3.8%    24.5%
CLASS 11             5,383    2,019   82,890      375      41.1     9.6%    11.0%    28.0%      1.3%    15.3%
CLASS III           18,688    7,079  104,462      379      14.8     5.2%     8.6%    17.1%      3.2%     7.8%
SUBTOTAL            25,614    9,715  240,387      379      24.7     6.4%     9.0%    23.3%      2.5%    13.2%
LOCAL MAINLINE      21,840      857    9,253       39      10.8    10.6%     9.4%    16.7%    -1.1%      6.7%
LOCAL BRANCHLIN        563       22      274       39      12.6     1.1%     1.3%    11.9%      0.2%    10.4%
JABOTABEK           65,646    2,245   18,461       34       8.2    28.2%    29.0%    30.4%      0.6%     1.0%
SUBTOTAL            88,050    3,124   27,988       35       9.0    21.9%    21.2%    24.6%    -0.6%      2.8%
TOTAL              113.664   12.840  268,375      113      20.9    17.2%    11.3%    23,5%    -5.0%    10.9%
S.SUMATRA CLASS I                   35       14      880      385      65.1         I
CLASS 11               390      134    4,975      345      37.0    -3.6%1   -4.1%1   10.0%    -0.5%    14.7%
CLASS III              628      208    2,885      331      13.9     6.6%     9.2%    18.5%      2.4%     8.5%
TOTAL                1.053      356    8.740      338      24.6     2.6%     35       15.1f%li    0.8%    11.2%
W.SUMATR  CLASS !                    2        0         5      50      61.3
CLASS III               27        1       45       50      33.0    -1.4%    -0.5%    29.0%      0.8%    29.6%
TOTAL                   29        1        5       50      34.5    -0.2% |    .%    31.7%       0.%    30.8%
N.SUMATRA CLASS I                   26        5      347      200      66.5
CLASS 11               433       94    2,650      218      28.1     0.1%     1.5%j  21.3%       1.4%    19.4%
CLASS III              915      125    1,948      137      15.6     3.0%     6.7%1   17.5%!    3.6%;   10.1%
TOTAL                1.374      224    4.946      163      22.0     2.4%     4.8%!   21.3%      2.3%    15.8%
PERUMKA   CLASSI                 1,606      637   54,268      396      85.2    12.0%1   7.6%    33.8%    -4.0%    24.4%
CLASS 11             6,206    2,247   90,515      362      40.3     7.6%1    9.2%    26.3%!    1.5%1  15.7%
CLASS III           20,258    7,413  109,340      366      14.7     5.1%!    8.6%    17.1%1   3.3%       7.9%
SUBTOTAL            28,070   10,297  254,1231    367       24.7     6.0%1   8.7%    22.9%!    2.5%    13.2%
LOCAL MAINLINE      21,840      857    9,253       39      10.8    10.6%!    9.4%    16.7%!   -1.1%      6.7%
LOCAL BRANCHLIN        563       22      274!      39      12.6     1.1%     1.3%    11.9%!    0.2%    10.4%
JABOTABEK           65,646    2,245   18,461       34       8.2    28.2%    29.00%   30.4%|   0.6%/    1.0%0/
SUBTOTAL            88,050    3,124   27,988       35       9.0    21.9%    21.2%!   24.6%|   -0.6%      2.8%              x
TOTAL              1_16__1 13.421  282i1          116      21.0    16.7%    19       2A3.      -4.9%    11.0%            b



-61-                                                        Annex 3.2
Table 3
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERUMKA FREIGHT TRAFFIC 1994 & 1988189
1994                            AV ANNUAL GROWTH 1988189-1994
SYSTEM            TRAFFIC           TONS  | TON-KM  REVENU  AV.HAUL AV. REV   TONS   TON-KM  REVENU  AV.HAUL AV. REV
(10A6) | (106)  (Rpxl0A6)  (Km)   (Rp/TKm)   (%)           (')       (%)       (%)       (%)
JAVA          PETROLEUM FUELS            1.468   184.634    13,964     126      75.6      7 4%      6.9%     25.6%     -0.5%     17.5%
FERTILIZER                 0.996   208.140    5,888      209      28.3    -5 0%       -8 4%    -3.0%     -3.7%      5.9%
CEMENT                     0.909   237.954    6,942      262      29 2     11.5%     11.9%     20.5%      0.4%      7.7%
COAL                       0.994   160 011    5,043      161      31 5      7.0%      7.0%     12.8%      0.0%      5 4%
STEEL                      0.160   124.675    2,977      781      23.9      6.5%      7.3%     17.8%      0.8%     9 7%
SAND                      0.004     1.216        40      290      32.9   -64.6%    -63.9%    -58 0%       1 9%     16.4%
SUBTOTAL                  4.530   916.630    34,853      202      38.0      0.5%     -1.6%     10.5%     -2.0%     12.2%
CONTAINERS                 0.641   122.670    7,272      191       59.3                              1
OTHER                      1.190   315.935    9,378      265      29.7    12.2%       5.8%     16 1%     -5.6%      9.7%
PARCELS                   0.053    23.899     3,720      451     155.7    -4.5%            |    9.9%
SUBTOTAL                   1.884  462.504    20,370      245      44.0    20.6%      14.2%     24.7%     -7.1%     18.7%
TOTAL                      6.415 1.379.134    55.224      1       400       4.5%      2.3%     14.6%     -2.3%     l%
S.SUMATRA  PETROLEUM                     0.294    64.411    4,804      219      74.6      9.5%      9.1%     27.7%     -0.3%'   17.0%
FERTILISER                 0.013    3.798        93      283      24.4    -0.6%      -1.8%     -3.4%     -1.2%     -1.7%
CEMENT                     0.416    80.275    2,579      193      32.1    -2.7%       -3.4%     4 9%1    -0.7%      8.5%
COAL                       5.106 1,865.321    63,615     365      34.1    19.4%      21.2%     24 3%      1.5%      2.6%
SUBTOTAL                   5.829 2,013.805   71,091      345      35.3    16.0%      18.7%     23.2%      2.3%      3.8%
OTHER                      0.356   113.969    3,588      320      31.5    10.6%       9.4%     1900%|   -1 1%       8.7%
PARCELS                   0.021    12.078       679      570      56.2      5.8%               14 9%
SUBTOTAL                  0.377   126.047     4,266      334      33.8    10.3%      11.7%     18.3%     -0.2%     10.3%
TOTAL                      6.207 2.139.852    7535       345      352      15.6%     12%       22.9%      2%        4-%
W.SUMATRA  CEMENT                        1.907    32.203    2,901       17       90.1    15.7%     14.2%     20.0%     -1.3%Y     5 1%
COAL                       0.922   144.046    6,070      156      42 1      2.8%      2.7%     11.5%|   -0 1%       8.5%
PALM OIL                   0.014    0.966       351       67     363.4
SUBTOTAL                   2.844   177.215    9,322       62      52.6    10.5%       4.4%     14.7%     -5.5%      9.8%
OTHER                     0.007     0.167        28       25     165.3    41.2%      -1.5%    68.0%    -30.2%      70.6%
PARCELS
SUBTOTAL                   0.007    0.167        28       25     165.3    38.3%       -1.5%    61.3%    -30.2%     70.6%
TOTAL                      2.851   177.382    9.349        2       52.7    10.6%      4.4%     14.8%     -L55%      iI9%
N.SUMATRA  PETROLEUM                     0.140    22.010    1,654      158      75.2    -3.5%       -4.6%    12.5%     -1.1%     17.9%
FERTILISER                 0.035    7.786       492      222 I    63.1   -12.2%    -10.2%      10.6%      2.4%     23.1O%
PLANTATION PRODUC          0.500o    91 938   4,174      184      45.4    -1.6%      -1 3%      5.5%      0.3%      6.9%
SUBTOTAL                   0.674   121.734    6,320      181      51.9    -2.8%       -2.6%     7.5%      0.1%     10.4%
OTHER                      0.216    34.804    1,111      161      31.9    49.9%      47.6%     24.7%     -1 5%    -15.5%
PARCELS                    0.005    0.8801      123      162     139.7      9.1%               23.7%
SUBTOTAL                  0.221   35.684       1,234     162      34.6    47.1%      48.4%1    24.6%     -1.5%    -14.2%
TOTAL                     28      157.418     z4         176|   4j          2.1%       .%n      9 4%/     4'%       7.7%
PERUMKA    PETROLEUM FUELS               1.902   271.055   20,422      143      75.3      6.6%      6.1/o    24.6%     -0.5%     17.5%
FERTILIZER                 1.044   219.724    6,472      210      29.5    -5.2%1   -8.4%       -2.3%     -3.4%      6.7%
CEMENT                     3.232  350.432    12,422      108      35.4    10.9%       7.2%     15.9%     -3.4%      8.1%
COAL                       7.022 2,169.378    74,727     309      344      14.2%     17.8%     21.9%      3.2%      3.5%
STEEL                      0 160   124.675    2,977      781      23.9      6.5%      7.3%     17.8%      0.8%      9.7%
SAND                       0.004     1.216       40      290      32.9   -64.6%    -63.9%    -58.0%       1.9%     16.4%
PLANTATION PRODUC         0.514    92.904     4,525      181      48.7    -1.0%      -1 1%/     7.2%      0 0%      8.4%
SUBTOTAL                 13.878 3,229.384   121,586      233      37.6      7.4%1    8.7%      17.1%      1.2%      7.7%
CONTAINERS                 0.641   122.670    7,272      191       59.3
OTHER                      1.769  464.875    14,105      263       30.3    141%       80%      174%      -5.3%      8.7%
PARCELS                   0.080    36.857     4,522      463     122.7    -1.6%                10.9%
SUBTOTAL                   2.490   624.402    25,899     251      41.5    20.0%      14.6%     23.5%     -4.5%      7.8%
TOTA              ~~~~16.368 3.853.786| 147.484   235   au   8             9 %   I-  18.1%1 0         4%1 I   m



-62-                                Annex 3.2
Table 4
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERUMKA REVENUES BY REGION AND TRAFFIC 1994
1994
System       Traffic     Revenue a)        Revenue Shares
By Region     Perumka
JAVA         PASSENGER           268,375       82.9%         62.5%
FREIGHT             55,224        17.1%        12.9%
SUB-TOTAL          323,599       100.0%        75.3%
S.SUMATRA   PASSENGER              8,740        10.4%         2.0%
FREIGHT             75,357        89.6%        17.5%
SUB-TOTAL           84,097       100.0%        19.6%
W.SUMATRA  PASSENGER                 50          0.5%         0.0%
FREIGHT              9,349        99.5%         2.2%
SUB-TOTAL            9,399       100.0%         2.2%
N.SUMATRA   PASSENGER              4,946       39.6%          1.2%
FREIGHT              7,554        60.4%         1.8%
SUB-TOTAL           12,500       100.0%         2.9%
PERUMKA    PASSENGER            282,111        65.7%         65.7%
FREIGHT            147,484        34.3%        34.3%
TOTAL              429,595       100.0%       100.0%
a) does not include govemment compensation and other revenues



-63-
Annex 3.3
Pagze  of 5
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PERFORMANCE AND COMPARATIVE STATISTICS
I1.    Perumka's combined operations on Java and South Sumatra have been compared to the railways
of Thailand, Sri Lanka, Austria, and Belgium for 1994. Perumnka's lines in West and North Sumatra
were excluded from the comparisons shown in Figures I through 8 of this aniex and are summarized
below:
*  Perumka's physical utilization of assets is good measured against its four comparators. For
example, its Java and South Sumatra railways have the highest traffic density in terms of
combined annual passenger arid ton kilometers per kilometer of main track (Figure I ).
*  However, Perumka's finanlcial return on assets is poor because its US dollar revenues per
passenger kilometer and per ton kilometer are low.  For example, its annual revenue per
kilometer of main track is much lower than that of railways in Austria arid Belgium, which are 5
and 3 times higher, respectively (Figure 2). The low revenue is a significant indicator of
Perumka's unprofitability since most of the track investment and repair cost consists of material
that is at least as expensive in Indonesia as it is in Austria and Belgium.
-  Perumka's utilization in terms of passenger kilometers and ton kilometers per locomotive and
multiple unit power car is lower than Thailand's but better than the others (Figure 3).
-  Perumka's annual revenue per locomotive and power car is lower thani Thailanid's, but Austria's
and Belgium's are 3.1 and 1.5 times higher, respectively (Figure 4). As with track, Perumka's
low revenue is a significant indicator of unprofitability since most of the investment and repair
cost of locomotives and multiple unit power cars consists of material that is at least as expensive
in Indonesia as it is in Austria and Belgium.
*  Another utilization measure is annual passenger kilometers per coach aiid passenger rail car.
Perumka's physical utilization is 88%  of Thailand's but better than the others (Figure 5).
Perumka's financial return from these assets (not shown) is less than for Thailand, Austria, and
Belgium due to its lower revenue per passenger kilometer.
*  Perumka's physical wagon utilization in terms of annual ton kilometers per wagon compares
favorably to the others (Figure 6). But its financial returm is lower than for Thailand, Austria,
and Belgium due to lower revenue per ton kilometer.
*  Perumka's combined annual passenger and ton kilometers per employee is lower than that of
Thailand but significantly better than that of the other three comparators (Figure 7).
*  The ratio of revenue yield per passenger kilometer to revenue yield per ton kilometer can be a
relative indicator of cross subsidy, especially where freight rates have beeii raised to offset low
passenger fares while attempting to achieve profitability overall. This appears to be the case for
Perumka and Thailand (Figure 8), which indicates a significant cross subsidy.
2.     The overall conclusion of the analysis is that Perumka ranks relatively higih in terms of physical
measures of asset utilization. But mainly due to depressed passenger fares, the revenue earnings of its
physical assets are inadequate and significantly lower than the railways in Thailand, Austria, and
Belgium.



- b S -                             Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 5
Figure 1 - Passenger KM + Ton KM per Route KM, millions
4.5
4-
3.5-
3 
2.5-
2 -
1.5 -
1
0.5
0
Figure 2 - US$ Revenue per Route KM, thousands
240
220-
200-
180-
160-
140-
120-
100 
80 
60-
40-
20-
0
EMIndonesia EMThailand         Sri Lanka      Austria      Belgium



-65-                                     Annex 3.3
Page. 3 of 5
Figure 3 - Passenger KM + Ton KM per Locomotive & Power Car, millions
40
35 -
30 -
25 -
20-
15-
10 
5
Figure 4 - US$ Revenue per Locomotive & Power Car, millions
1.1
1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
MMIndonesia      Thailand       Sri Lanka  E1 Austria  rz7iBelgium



-66-                                  Annex 3.3
Page 4 of.5
Figure 5 - Passenger KM per Coach, Power & Trailer Car, millions
a
7
6
Figure 6 - Ton KM per Wagon, thousands
450
40-
30-
25-
10 
0
MM  ndn Figurh6ilTnd  KM  pr W   agon t hustand
450nsaTaln KaSiLna1\zAuti /z egu



-67-                                   Annex 3.3
Page 5. of 5
Figure 7 - Passenger KM + Ton KM per Employee, thousands
700
600 -
500 _
400 -
300-
200-
100 
0D
Figure 8 - Ratio of Passenger Revenue Yield to Freight Revenue Yield
1.4
1.3-
1.2 -1
1.1 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7-
0.6-
0.5 
0.4-
0.3-
0.2-
0.1 A
0
MMIndonesia EMThailand 2           Sri Lanka  E=Austria      Belgium






INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CORE INVESTMENT PLAN FOR INDONESIAN STATE RAILWAYS
Repelita VI - 1994/95 through 19 8/99 (Ruplahs, millions)
Total Repellta VI        1994/1995      1995/1996      1996/1997      1997/1998      1998/1999
Total    Local   Foreign   Local Forelgn  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign
I. Jabotabek Services
A. New lines
Phase VIII               140,275    7,136   133,139         33,993   2,692  49,573  2,500 49,573   1,944
Phase IX                 346,265   17,975   328,290         17,995  4,725 103,425   6,500 103,435   6,750 103,435
Duri-Tangerang ST        158,144   43,144   115,000    658          15,538 23,000  15,000 46,000  11,948 46,000
Depok-Bogor DT            71,935   25,366    46,569   5,762  6,074  2,200 40,495  17,404
Subtotal                 716,619   93,621   622,998   6,420 58,061  25,155 216,494 41,404 199,008  20,642 149,435
B. Track rehabilitation
C. Bridge rehabilitation
D. Signal modernization      2,663     363      2,300    304   1,150     59   1,150
E. New locomotives
F. Rehabilitate locomotives                                                                                                        v
G. New rolling stock       541,946  129,105   412,841 j   {   82,568  15,000 82,568 54,105 82,568 35,000 82,568 25,000 82,568
H. Rehabilitate rolling stock    86,656   0    86,656   '    28,007          29,325         29,325
I. Other (studies, misc.)
J. Total                 1,347,884  223,089  1,124,796   6,724 169,786 40,214 329,537  95509 310,901  55,642 232,003 25,000 82,568
II. Other Services
A. New lines
Cikampek-Cirebon DT       50,716    2,634    48,082                         2,701          2,161    634 21,610  2,000  21,610
Citayam-Cibinong ST            0        0         0
Subtotal                  50,716    2,634    48,082                         2,701          2,161  < 634 21,610  2,000  21,610
B. Track rehabilitation
Track maint. equipment    21,388        0    21,388         21,388
200 switches              22,976       50    22,926                         7,642     25  15,284     25
290 switches                   7        7         0                                                   3              4
Cigading-Serpong         197,134  112,288    84,846  4,921  82,204 21,200   2,643  32,167         31,000         23,000
Subtotal                 241,505  112,345   129,161   4,921 103,592 21,200  10,285 32,192  15,284 31,028         23,004
C. Bridge rehabilitation
North Line Java I         46,585    3,495    43,090          8,514          8,644  2,250   8,644     80  8,644   1,165  8,644 N
North Une Java II         39,305    3,000    36,305                                        3,890   1,500  10,805   1,500 21,610 oj -
Java-Sumatra bridges      84,213   53,868    30,345                                 9,268  17,850 24,400  6,248  20,200  6,248 X
Subtotal                 170,103   60,363   109,740          8,S14          8,644  11,518 30,384 25,980 25,697 22,865  36,502
Source: Mission and Perumka estimates.



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CORE INVESTMENT PLAN FOR INDONESIAN STATE RAILWAYS
Repelita VI - 1994 /95 throu h 1998/99 (Rupiahs millions)
Total Repelita VI        1994/1995     1995/1996      1996/1997      1997/1998      1998/1999
Total    Local   Foreign   Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign
D. Signal modernization
Cirebon-Kroya-Yogya      207,775     858   206,917         69,008    858 69,008          68,901
Bekasi-Bandung           144,798    4,675   140,123                       28,025  2,000 56,049  2,675 56,049
Tasikmalaya-Kroya        162,170       0   162,170                        32,433         64,868         64,868
Pekalongan-Semarang       56,486   10,206    46,280                 6,062 23,140  2,000 23,140  2,144
Subtotal                 571,228   15,739   555,489        69,008  6,920 152,606  4,000 212,958   4,819 120,917
E. New locomotives
12 locos                  47,050    5,745    41,305  5,745  6,056         35,249
15 locos                  61,585    7,900    53,685                 7,900  7,405         23,140         23,140
Subtotal                 108,634   13,645    94,990  5,745  6,056  7,900 42,654          23,140         23,140
F. Rehabilitate locomotives
25 Krupp BB301            65,400    3,000    62,4yu                       12,480  1,500 24,960   1,500 24,960
6 Henschel BB303          13,484    3,500     9,934    '                           1,500  4,992  2,000  4,992
15 Henschel BB303         44,928       0    44,928                                       14,976         14,976         14.976
Tract mtrs & generators    4,839     605      4,235    605    833          3,402
Spare parts                6,660     941     5,718    941                  5,718
Subtotal                 135,311    8,046   127,265   1,546    833        21,600  3,000 44,928  3,500 44,928           14,976
G. New rolling stock
80 coal wagons            31,865    5,623    26,242   1,400  3,937  4,223  11,153        11,151
60 bolsterless bogies     25,183    3,200    21,983  3,200  4,397                         8,793          8,793
Subtotal                  57,048    8,823    48,225  4,600  8,334  4,223  11,153         19,U4           8,793
H. Rehabilitate rolling stock   0        0         0
1. Railway Efficiency ProJect   265,622  123,613   142,009                          15,938  13,442 45,871  53,826 61,804 74,741
J. Other (studies, misc.)
TAP -41 tech assistance    6,484    1,000    5,484          1,550   1,000  3,934
High speed study           4,685     200     4,485                           805    150  1,840      50  1,840
Bandung metro study        3,821       0     3,821            764          1,528          1,528
Subtotal                  14,990    1,200    13,790         2,315   1,000  6,267    150  3,368      50  1,840
J. Total                 1,615,158  346,407 1,268,751  16,812 198,652 41,243 255,909 66,798 365,610 111,881 300,751 109,673 147,829
Total Investment, plan    2,963,042  569,496 2,393,546  23,536 368,438 81,457 585,446 162,307 676,511 167,523 532,754 134,673 230,397 D
Percent                     100%      19%       81%                                                             ______         m 
Source: Mission and Perumka estimates.



-72-                                    Aninex 3.5
I;e pt.' of 7
Govcrnnment of Indonesia
Ministry of ComTunI]icationIs
INDO NESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
GOALS AND P'OLICIES FOR THE DEVELOPl\iENT
Rcised Concept
Baclkground
1.    The broad goals and policies for the future development of Indonesia's transport sector
and, within this the railway transport subsector, are set out in the Outlines of State Policy (Garis-
Garis Besar Haluan Negara or GBHN) adopted by the Peoples' Consultative Assembly (MPR) in
March 1993. This important document, which provides the foundadionis and framework for the
Second Long-Term  (Twenty-Five Year) Development Plan (PJP-I1) and the Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita VI), highlights the critical importance of forging a reliable, efficient,
safe, orderly and well integrated national transport system with the capacity and coverage to
support sustained rapid economic growth and industrialization, to promote the strengthening of
national unity through the more equitable distribution of national development benefits, and to
accelerate the development of Indonesia's more remote regions. It also emplhasizes the need for
consistency between policies for the development of the national transport system and those for
other key sectors and areas, including land-use and spatial planning, protection of the
environment, and energy conservation and djv;sification.
2.    The Repelita VI plan, covering the  -iiod 1994/95 - 1998/99, attaches high priority to
completing the integrated modernization of the- transport sector legal and regulatory framework.
This process commenced in the late 1980s and culminated in 1992 in the passage of four new
laws to govern road traffic and transport, railways, shipping and civil aviation. It also focuses
on improving transport sector productivity, on stimulating increased participation by the private
sector and cooperatives in the provision of transport services, on extending and consolidating the
sectoral deregulation and debureaucratization initiatives introduced under Repelitas IV and V,
and on strearmlining the organization and management of government agencies and public
enterprises with transport sector responsibilities. Particular importance is placed on developing
intermodal transport, both through improved transshipment facilities and through a more
appropriate regulatory framework, and on meeting the enormous human resource development
challenges posed by the need to satisfy rapidly growing and evolving transport demands while
adopting new and more complex technologies and integrating into increasingly sophisticated
global transport systems.
3.    Within this sectoral context, the Government attaches very high priority to consolidating
and continuing initiatives to improve the performance and expand the capacity of railway
transport. The initial steps taken under Repelita V included the conversion of the State Railway



-73-                                       Atiticx 3.5
Pa .IC 2 o f -7
Agency (Perjan Kereta Api or PJKA) into a more autonomous anid comnimerciallv-oriented Public
Railways Corporationi (Perulim  Kereta Api or Perumnka), an(d thc eniactmicnt ot' a niew Law on
Railwlays (UU13/1992).  This f'irst phiase in the corporatization and cormmerc ialization of the
railways hias beenl successt'ul in arresting  and revcrsing  the steadly deceriorationi in ttheir
operational and financial condition.  Passenger and frehg-tt traffic grew  rap idly during the
Repelita V period despite increasing conmpetition from other modes, the quality of' rail transport
services and die public image of the railways improved signitficaintly, and Perunika recorded
significant improvements in its productivity and financial results.
4.     These steps form part of an ongoing process that will be*ccelerated under Repelita VI,
including through the issue of the implementing regulations for UU13/1992, the further
strengthening of railway management capacities and svstems, the modernization of railway
operating regulationis and practices, and the expanded involvemenit of the privaite sector. The
specific issues to be addressed as part of this second phase of the corporatization and
coinmercialization of the subsector will include:
-  roles of governmcnit and state and private enterprises;
-  corporate structure, organization and staffing;
*  tariff-setting and compensation for non-commercial services;
*  operating procedures and regulations;
*  corporate planning, budgeting and financing
*  private sector participation;
*  human resource development;
*  environment, health and occupati6nal safety.
5.     The policies that will guide the initiatives in these areas during the Repelita VI period are
outlined below following a brief overview 'of the basic legal framework for the railway
subsector.
The Basic Legal Framework
6.     UU13/1992 requires that railway transport be developed and managed in the public
interest as an integral part of the national transport system, with the goal of serving those
passenger and freight traffics (in terms of type, volume, and distance) for which rail is superior
to other modes when account is taken of factors such energy-use efficiency, land-use efficiency,
safety, and pollution. It also outlines the respective roles to be played by government and state
and private enterprises in realizing this goal.
7.     Overall responsibility for guiding and planning the development (pembinaan) of railway
transportation is vested in government, while responsibility for implementation (pelaksanaan) is
vested in a management entity (badan penyelenggara), whichi is required to be a state-owned
enterprise (badan usaha milik negara) established in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations. Other parties are permitted to participate in railway-related activities through
cooperation (kerjasama) with the management entity.



-74-
Aninex 3J.
Page 3 of 7
S.     IJUU13/1992 stipulates that responsibility tr railway infrastructure (prasarIna) provision
and malintenanice is vested in government but nmay be delegated to tlie ianagement cntity.
Responsibility for the operational managmcincti ot railway iliastiliuctureC tor [tle provisior and
miainitenance ot rollingstock and otlier flacilities, and foI ithe operation of ralillway serviceS is
assigned to the railway management entity.  Provision is mlade for private cnter-prises to
cooperate with the mainalgerie nt cntity in raillway-relaited activities.
Rolcs of Goveriiinent and State and Private Enterl2rises
9.     During the IRepelita VI period, UU13/1992 will be elborated through Governmlient
Regulations (Peraturan Penieriintalh) and / or Decrees of the Minister responsible for railways
(NMinister of Commilullicatiolls). These implemiienitinig regulationis will def-ine in greater detail the
respective roles of government, the management entity, and othler eni[erprises.  Thle principles
that will guide their preparation are summarized below.
10.    GnxoverniuLmt: UU13/1992 assigns to government several important and distinct roles in
relation to the railways, namely those of policy-makler, owner of the railway management entity,
owner of the railway infrastructure, and regulator.
11.    Within this context, the core role of government is to establish a policy and legal
framework that permits and promotes the effective and efficient development and management of
Lhe railway subsector while adequately safeguarding the public interest.  This encompasses
creating an environment which enables railway transport to play its proper role within an
efficient national transport system, which fosters and facilitates the participation of public and
private enterprises in the subsector, and which establishes appropriate standards and safeguards
with respect to safety, public liability, and control of market power. Primary authority in these
areas is vested in the Ministry of Communicat;ions (MOC).
12.   The government, as owner of the ~ihway infrastructure, has delegated technical and
administrative responsibility for provision andmaintenance to the management entity (Perumka),
but retains the responsibility for the associated costs and the authority for reviewing and
approving proposals for its extension and upgrading.  Government also retains the power to
impose charges for the use of infrastructure (track charges), and will give consideration to the
phased introduction of such charges in concert with the phased implementation of its adopted
policy with respect to road user charges.  Authority for coordinating the implementation of
policies in these areas is vested in MOC.
13.    The government, as owner of the management entity, has the power to appoint its
directors. It also has the power to guide and approve its corporate plans, annual budgets and
work plans and supervise their implementation, to appoint its financial auditors, and more
generally to review proposed major investment and other decisions from the standpoint of their
commercial soundness. Primary authority in this area is vested in the Ministry of Finance and
implemented through the Board of Supervisors (Dewan Pengawas).
14.   The government's role as subsector regulator is concerned with ensuring that the
development and management of the subsector is undertaken in full conformity with the adopted
policy and legal framework. Broad in scope and complex in nature, it encompasses four main



-75-
Antwix 3.5
1';a, 4 rc 7
aspects: (a) monitoring of compliance with appliciable safeLy. environmiental1, health and olier
teclhnical standards and tile investigation of incidients relatilg to suchi aspects: (h) ensuri'n  thalt
the management entity; as railway service operator does not abuse its nmrkct powcr by clhartling
excessive tarifls; (c) reviewving, proposals f'or tihe provisioni of railway services at tarist'S lower
thian associated costs and arranging for the management entity to he appropriately compensated
tor suclh public ser-vice obli,gations; and (d) enlsuring that tthe participation ot' privaztce eniterprises
in thle subsector is secured in a manner that promotes efficiec1zy and enables the benet'its of such
efficiency to be shared with the management entity and hence with tlie users of railway services.
Primary authority in tlhese is vested in NOC.
15.    As authority ftor these dift'erenit roles must be executed through dit't'erent channels,
effective  inter-agency  communication  and coordination  wvill be crucial to ensure  overall
consistency in the subsector's management.  Careful consideration will be given to thlis in
formulating the implementing regulations for UU13/1992.
16.    Managemenint Entity:  The state corporation' designated as railway managernent entity
will be empowered and required to operate at arm's length from government as an autonomous,
entrepreneurial, profit-oriented transport corporation (s).
17.    The three main revenue generating businesses of the corporation(s) will be the operation
of railway transport services, the management of railway infrastructure on behalf of government,
and the management of its property assets in a manner that maximizes their net worth to the
corporation while satisfying the needs of efficient train operation. It will be expected to employ
best commercial and technical practices in conducting these businesses so as to provide quality
services efficiently and economically in line with users' needs (a Quality, Cost, Delivery or QCD
focus).
18.    Other Enterprises: The participation.f other enterprises in railway-related businesses is
permitted and encouraged as a means of iproving efficiency through the mobilization of
managerial and technical skills not available within the management entity and as a means of
accelerating development through the mobilization of private financial resources. The types of
business open for participation by othe; enterprises comprise the operation of rail transport
services, the provision and / or maintenance of infrastructure, the provision of supporting
services, and development of property owned by the management entity.
Corporate Structure. Organization and Staffing
19.    The government is cornmitted to ensuring that the future structure, internal organization
and staffing of the railway management entity will enable it to respond efficiently and effectively
to increasing demands and evolving requirements in the many different transport markets it
serves in the face of strengthening competition from other modes.
20.    Proposals are now being prepared for the early conversion of Perumnka into a state-
owvned limited liability company (Persero). It is envisaged that the internal organization of the
All references to "the railway management entity" should be interpreted as rcferring to one or morc stated-
owned corporations that are empowered to manage railway infrastructurc and services.



-7 6-
Anncix 3.5
Pa.1C R of 7
Perserso company woitldd be structured on geographic a1nd strateg,'ic busine.ss linzes, anid thlat
ceratain of tihese buisinless units ivould later be trantsformtied into subsidiary Persero comlpanlies. -
1in evaluatinlg possibleL' organization mtiodlels, the government w,ill gXive p)articular cittetntionr to theL
opporturnutiees the; create for expanded antid iniore effrctive pri cite pairtici.pait)ztio ini tlhe s.ubsector.
21.    The mana-ement entity wvill also be empowered anid requir-edl to streamline its lower-level
organization structure so as to eliminate unnecessary managenient layers and facilitate improved
communication and coordination between units. It will also be expect to align its staffing to its
busilness needs, and will be required to prepare a programi for increasing labior productivity to
appropriate "best practice" levels and for recruiting suftcicieht appropriaitely trained and
experieniced  personinel to  maintain and operate  its increasingly  sophisticated  technical and
manageinent systenis satisfactorily.   Accordingly, the management entity  will be granted
increased autonoiny with respect to personnel remuneration policy. Thie government recognizes
that these changes will lilkely necessitate some reduction in the size of the work-force, and will
bear responsibility for compensatin, personnel whose positions are so af'fected.
Tariff Settino, and Compensationi for Non-Commercial Services
22.    The management entity will in general be empowered to set the tariffs and rates for
railway services at levels that will enable it to cover the associated financial costs of provision,
including track charges if and when levied, and to earn a reasonable return on assets employed.
The calculation of the capital charge component of the computed service costs will take account,
inter alia, of whether the assets employed are suitable for use in operating other types of services
and of whether further investment in such assets is envisaged.
23.    The government as regulator may require the management entity to operate services at
tariffs less than those required for normal comrmercial operation. Such decisions will be taken on
a case by case basis, with the governmentpThyiding direct compensation to the management
entity through an appropriately structured p-lb iC service obligation financing mechanism.  For
these purposes, management entity will be reqiuired to provide government with such market and
cost data as it may reasonably require for the purposes of evaluating the case for fixing tariffs at
less than commercial levels, of computing the appropriate level of compensation, and of
monitoring the actual costs and benefits of such subsidies.
Coraorate Planning. Budgeting and Financing
24.    The increased commercial autonomy to be given to the management entity will be
balanced by a requirement that it become more accountable to government, as owner, for its
performance.
Consideration is being given to the creation of separate subsidiarics for Java and Sumatra, and to the
replacement of the current "functional" top-level management structure with one designed on strategic
business units. Thus, for example, a Java subsidiary could have directors responsible inter-urban passenger
services, urban passenger services, freight services, property, and operations support. Key support business
units, such as infrastructure maintenance and rollingstock provision, could be reorganized as profit or
investment centers and later considered as candidates for corporatization.



-77-
Annex 3.5
I'1,I 6 o: __7
25.   Medium-termii corporate planning and annual budgeting and work planning will be thle key
mecthaniiisnms throughl which increazsed accountability is achieved. Corporate pl.lns and budgets
will be required to elaeonopaiss activities related to infrastructure provision aind mainlten-c as
wcll as to the operation of railway services, an1d henice to incorporate associated financial
transfers fronm government.
26.   The Supervisory Board will require evidence that all investmnent proposals have been
subject to appropriate financial analyses and are consistent with the commercial objectives of the
management entity, and that operating plans provide for ettficient and productive use of
rollinnstock and other resources to provide services that will yid a satisfactory retuin whcn
account is takien of public service compensationi payments.  Approved corporate plans and
budgets will be viewed as being contracts betweeni the management enitity and the government as
its owner.
27.   The government for its part will commit to providing financing in line with the levels
indicated in approved corporate plans and stipulated in annual budgets. In addition to bearing the
capital costs of infrastructure provision and the recurrent costs of infrastructure maintenance and
public service obligation compensation, government will in the medium term also continue to
finance part of the needed investments in rollingstock and other management entity facilities.
Once the public service obligation financing mechanism is in place, such financing will be in the
form of loans rather than increased equity participation.
Operating Regulations and Procedures
28.   The government will ensure that the regulations and operating procedures for the railway
subsector are amended in line with current best practices. The changes made will be designed to
enable the benefits of investments in new teihnology to be maximized, the life-cycle costs of
track and other assets to be minimized u-gi timely maintenance, and to ensure that the
development and operation of railways is co6T6cted with due regard to protecting the safety and
health of the public and railway personnel and to containing adverse environmental and social
impacts.
Strategy for Expanded Private Sector Participation
29.   The government will foster increased opportunities for the private sector to participate in
the railway subsector, including in the operation of train services, in the conduct of supporting
businesses, and in the development of the property assets of the management entity.  Such
participation will implemented through cooperation agreements with the management entity and
will be solicited in a manner consistent with the intent of UU13/1992 and other applicable
regulations. It will be based on an equitable sharing of risks and rewards and will have due
regard to safeguarding the public interest. The mechanisms for securing such participation,
which will be designed to promote competition where possible, will be elaborated in Government
Regulations and other supporting implementing regulations as required by UU13/1992.
30.   In the longer term, the government may consider involving the private enterprises in the
railway subsector in ways that extend beyond those provided for in UU13/1992. The planned



-78-
Annex il5
Page 7 o_ 7
corporatization of the subsector and shiort ternm initiatives to involve private participation in its
developmenit will designed so as not to preclude desirable longeir-cerni changes.
Hiumiian Resource Development
3 1.   The government recognizes that upgrading  the skills of' railway managenient and
technical personnel is a prerequisite for the creationi of an eff-icienit modc-rn railway capable of
handling rapid growth in demand through the effective utilization of increasingly sophisticated
techniologies and systenis.  Accordingly, high priority will be giveni to establishing a hunian
resource developmenit masterplan for the railway subsector andl to,+naking availlble the resources
required for the initial phases of its implemilentationi.
EInvironmenit, Healthi and (Occuipational Safeta
32.   The government is concerned to ensure that the developimienit and operation of railways is
managed in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on the environnient and tile community and
that protects the health and safety of those employed in the railway subsector. Accordingly, the
governmnet will require that the maanagement entity establish a competent unit to-guide and
oversee the implementation of appropriate construction and operating standards and practices.
Implementation of the Policy Framework
33.   A comprehensive and carefully integrated plan for the implementation of these policies
during the remainder of the Repelita VI period is being developed by the concerned agencies
under the overall coordination of the Minister of Communications. Particular attention will be
given to the phasing of the component activities having careful regard both to the times required
to conduct the necessary planning and analysis-and, where needed, to amend existing regulations,
and to the need to proceed with due sensitivity and care in making changes that will have
significant social impacts.






[NI)NDONNESIA
1,A11 WA\' I*:HicfII:NC\' P IZOJ iCC'!1
("Y'l 1()N I' T()(.1A N-1li'() I FORAIL,\VWAY S i.(   ) J1()IZ l..Z  1 I J( I   I
No.                       Action                           Agencies           Dates                    Comments
A. Establish Policy Implementation Arranigements
A.1       Establish Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee    Minister of            3/96      Decree issued 3/29/96. IACC comprises
(IACC) and Working Group.                      Communications                    Asmenko Economy and Asmenko
Infrasiructure and Services (Ekkuwasbang),
DG Budget and DG State Enterprise
Development (MOF). Deputy for
Infrastructure (Bappenas), Secretary
General and DG Land Transport (MOC),
andJ Perumka Chiief Director
A.2       Establish Restructurfiig Task f-orce (RTF)     Minister of              8/96      NU vwill prepare proposals to tACC on the
-.     Communications /                  restructurinig of Perumka, on its conversion
^      .j; [.  IACC                       to Persero status, ani on other related
-matters
A.3       Appoint expert advisor to IACC                 IACC                    11/96
B. Compensation for Public Service Obligations (PSO)
B.1       Confirm intent to introduce PSO compensation   Ekkuwasbang.            2/96      Intent confirmed at Wrap-Up) I'Meting of
mechanism.                                     MOC. MOF,                         February 1906 Railway fv155sioir
Bappenas            _
B.2       Propose and agree PSO compensation budget    Perumka / MOC,             8/96     PSO compensation should not subsidize
methodology                                    MOF, Bappenas                     inefficiency or services tihat are not Justifled
on economiiic groun(is.
B.3       Propose and negotiate draft budget for 97/98   Perurnka / MOC,         10/96
MOFE Bappenas       _
BA.       Commence implementation of PSO                 MOF. Bappenas           1/97
compensation budget
B.5       Review 97/98 PSO budget outcome                Perumnka                6/98      Revievj will contribute to preparation of     la
9U/99 budget. Report to be sUblitllitted to
B.6       Propose and negotiate PSO budget for 98/99     Perumika / MOC,         10/97     Slhould reflect lessons learned fruot 9/ 98  
MOF. Bappenas                     experience.                    __|.-
a>w



No.                      Action                         Agencies           Dates                   Comments
C. Financing of Perumka Investinents
C. 1     Perumka to finance all new investments in rolling   Ekkuwasbang,  From 4/96   Intent conifirmied at Wrap-Up Meeting of
stock and olher assets from internal sources or    MOF. Bappenas,             February 1996 Railway Mission
borrowings.                                  MOC
C 2      GOI to on-lend foreign loan / grant furnds    Ekkuwasbang,        From 41/9G  Interit confirnmed at Wrap-Up Meeting of
allocated for Perumka investments.           MOF, Bappenas,                   February 1996 Railway Mission
I MOC
D. Compensation for InfrastrUcture Improvenment, Maintetiancc, and Operation (IIMO) Costs
D 1      Confirm intent to introduIce IIMO compensationi    Ekkuwasbang,      2/96     Intient confirined at Wrap-Up Meelinig of
MOC, MOF,                       February 1996 Railvway Milssion
Bappenas
D.2      Develop and agree IIMO compensation budget    Perumka / MOC,         8/96     IIMO compensation to based on efficient
methodology                                  MOF, Bappenas                    costs for maintainiing infrastruclure to
appropriate standards
D.3      Propose and negotiate IIMO budget for 97/98  Perumka / MOC,         10/96
$ --IVIMOF, Bappenas  |
0A4      Commence implementation of IIMO           -- MOF, Bappenas           4/97
compensation budget
D.5      Review 97/98 IIMO budget outcome             Perumka                 6/98     Review will contribute to preparation of
98/99 budget. Report to be submiitted to
GOI.
D.6      Propose and negotiate IIMO budget for 98/99  Peumka / MOC,          10/97     Should reflect lessons learned fiorn 97/98
MOF, Bappenas                   experience.
E. Track Access Charges
E.1     Confirm intent to introduce track access charges    Ekkuwasbang MOC,  2/96     Intenit confirmed at Wrap-Up tvleeling of
| MOF, Bappenns            _      February 199G Railway Missiorn
E.2     Propose and agree methodology for computinrg  Perumka / MOC,          12/96    Account to be taken ot intrastructure
and paying track access charges              MOF, Bappenas                    charges levied for road / other modes
E.3     Agree arrangements and rates for initial period of   MOC, MOF,        2/97
implementation                               Bappenas
EA4     Implement track access charges                MOC, MOF                4/97
E.5      Review 97/98 track access charges            Perumka                 6/97     Report to be subimitted to GOI.                  lb
implementation                                                                                                                0
E.6      Propose and agree refinefnenis to track access  Perumka / MOC,       10/97    Sliould reflect lessons learned froi 97/98
charges for 98/99                            MOF, Bappenas                    experience.



No.                       Action                          Agencies           Dates                   Comments
F. Corporate Restructuring of Perumka
F.1      Confirm intent to restructure Perumka on 'line-of-   Ekkuwasbang,      2/96     Intent confirmed at Wrap-Up Meeting of
business' principles, to transform to Persero  MOC, MOF,                         February 1996 Railway Mission
status, and to amend appropriately existing drafts   Bappenas
of Government Regulations for implementing Law
13/92 on Railways
F.2      Prepare revised drafts of Government Regulations  RTF                  2/97      Current drafts need revision to reflect fully
for Law 13/92                                                                    GOI's railway sector and deregulation
policies. IACC to provide guidance and
review.
F.3     Implement the financial separation of the       RTF                     2/97      Requires consultation vwitfl the Jakarta
Jabotabek and Java inter-urban rail systems                                      Urban Mass Transit Project Team  IACC to
review proposals.
F.4      Prepare detailed proposals for transforming    RTF                     10/97     Includes. design of nevw corporate structure,
Perumka into a Persero enterprise structured on                                  restructuring of balance sheet and
line-of-business principles, and for streamlining                                revaluation of assets, restructuring of work
the GOI:corporate interface                                                      force and development of compensation
!              .          ~~~~~~~~~policies-. designi of Improved manage-nieiit
processes, modernization of outdated
operating regulations IACC to provide
guidance and review proposals
F.5      Transform Perumka into a Persero (limited liability)  MOF, MOC         1/98      Envisaged that the railwvay will operate as a
company.                                                                         Persero from January 1, 98.
G. Private Participation
G.1     Formulate guidelines and procedures for private    RTF                  10/97     RTF to prepare proposals for review by
participation, including through franchising,                                    IACC.
concessions, outsourcing, and other
arrangements
G.2    Identify and evaluate commercial opportunities for  RTF                  9/97      RTF to prepare proposals for review by
railway development in Java and Sumatra and for                                  IACC.                                           '
exploiting Perumka's urban land assets                                                                                          X _
G.3     Evaluate unsolicited private proposals for     RTF                       As       RTF evaluations to be subject to review by     w
L_____cooperation with Perumka                                                submitted   IACC                                            0
,-,. L
wa a






-84-
Annex 3.7
Page I of'
INDONESIA
IRAILWVAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PUBLIC/COVIMUNITY SERVICE, OBLIGlATIONS
I1.    The term Public Service Obligation (PSO) or Communitly Service Obligation (CSO)
is used to describe services or products that enterprises are requilcd by governments to
provide at tarifts or prices that arc not commercially attractive.'  SucIh obligations are
common in the transport sector, withi the losses on requircd noy-commercial services (e.g.
rural rail and late night bus services) havinig traditionally becel oltset by internal cross-
subsidy from other highly profitable services (c.g. trunk routc and peak periodl services). In
some instances, such as Indonesia's railways, governimients havc provided indirect subsidies
for such scrviccs through the injection of capital or the under-recovery of intrastructure or
other costs.
2.     The concept of governmeits providing explicit direct compensation lor imposed
public service obligations is not new, although their systematic application is compar.atively
recent. During the 1930s, for example, the New South WValcs State Railways developed
some rural branch lines in fringe agricultural districts in return for negotiated subsidies from
the State Treasury designed to compensate for the associated operating losses. Very similar
arrangements were applied much earlier in India, with private railways receiving
compensation (through guaranteed dividends) up until their take-over in early 1900s.
3.     tviore recently, PSOs achieved widespread prominence in the EEC, when it was
decided that subsidies to nationalized steel and other industries should be madc explicit. One
of the best known examples of their recent app!ication in the transport sector was in the UK
following the Beeching Report on British Railways (BR). In the latc 1960s, the Government
elected to provide explicit compensation t,i.'in return for its continuing to operate a range
of uneconomic services that were consi&red politically necessary.  Compensation was
provided by central government on a ser'vice-by-servicc basis, in part because certain
suburban services also received compensation from local governments through regional
Passenger Transport Executives.
4.     The BR PSO compensation payments were computed using what becamc known as
the "Cooper Brothers Formula", which was essentially a marginal costing approach. As
more services became eligible for PSO compensation, however, BR was forced to cover its
residual fixed infrastructure costs from a declining number of "commercial" services. This
necessitated amending the approach, with each section of infrastructure being assigned to a
nominal "owner" who was responsible for funding the fixed costs and who reccived PSO
compensation towards these. The costing procedures wcre reasonably straight-forward, and
their implementation was subject to vcry careful audit.
PSO is used herc as a gencric tcrmn for all forms or explicit direct compcnsation 1rom govcrnments to enterprises
in respect of the obligatory provision of non-cconomic scrvices that would not othenvise be ofTcred by a
commercially-oricntcd cntity.



-85-
Annex 3.7
Paelc 2 of 7
5.     Thc usc of Pso compensation f'or rail andf for other intrastrctftird sctors ncrcascd
considerably f'roml tie micl- I 9SOs in line with increased pressures f'or thec corporatization anid
privatization1 of' pLiblic services. In Australia, it has becn applicd extensively in the railway
scctor, i1cludinL. tor ALustralian Nationazl (passen-cr services). I'or New,, South1 Wales State
Railvways (fre igiht services, in:cludlhgm an experi mental -bounty'' I;Or :,\tcrnial road costs savecd
by having freight moved by rail), and Queensland Rail (to compensate f'or the removal of'the
prcvious cross-subsidy from coal export trat'tfic to passenger services). I'SO comrpcelsaltionl is
also providcc for rural services in scctors such as posts and telccommILunicaltionls.
6.      In New  Zealand, local authorities have provided explicit compensation tor non-
commercial suLburbani services in Auckland and Wellington. Tly.sc havc bcen continIued as
comiliercial contraLcts following the recent privatization of New Zealanid Rail.   in Malaysia,
PSO compcnsation is providcd for some ot' now-corporatized KTN'l's passengcr serviccs.
Likewise Indonesia has for several years becn providing PSOs tor conitracted pioneer air and
shipping services, some of which are provided by private operators.
7.     The approachcs used to compute PSO compensation payments vary considerably. In
some instances, amounts are calculated on the basis of defined marginal or avcragc cost
principles, in others block grants are provided to enable providers to achieve a satisfactory
"bottom line", and in some payments are determined by the competitive selectioni of servicc
providers through a tendering process in which compensation amount is the bidding variable.
8.     The provision of PSO  compensation has two important advantages over more
traditional forms of indirect and often hidden subsidy. Firstly, it enables governments to
weigh the perceived benefits of subsidized services against the financial costs it must bear in
order to maintain them.  Secondly, it opens the door to justified non-commercial public
services being provided more efficiently by the private sector.
i..
_ .
f-



-86-
AnlneN 4.1
Pa-e I of 4
IN )ON NES I A
IRAILWN'AY EFFICIENCY PROE.ICT
ON TIM1;E 1"IrEV'ENTI'VE MAINTENANCF, SYST1E1M WVITII U               XNIT ClX0ANGI.
1.   \A dicsel locomotive consists of a fraimc and somc twenty live inajor comiiponicilts,
inclUdin'g the main diesel enginc, the traiction oencrator or alternator, the coinpressor, the
traction motors, and many others. All componients have ditffierit timie intervals between
succcssivc overhauls. At present, Peruiiiika loconiotive com)polineits are overhaauled when
locomliotives are overhiauled (a  senmi " overhauil Occurs cver,\) two years and a gencral
overlhaul occurs every four years).
2.     Since components actually have expected service lives corresponding to time periods
between successivc overhauls of one to eight years, many componients are not being
overhauled at thcir most cost effective interval. Some componcnts get their overhiaul too
early, whichi results in inefricient use of time and spare parts. Some componients gct their
overhaul too late, which may result in an in-service failure and a more costly overhaul in
terms of time and spare parts. The components that get their overhaul late have a"higher
probability of failure in service. Thus, their reliability is low. These components also run
the risk of being damaged beyond repair, which results in a costly replacement program.
3.     If each and every component on a locomotive is overhauled when it is duc, an ON
TIME PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE SYSTEM is in place. When a component is thus
overhauled on time, in-service failures should decrease, and the reliability of each
component should increase. With the increase in reliability of components, the reliability of
the locomotive itself should increase. This:jn turn will improve the reliability of service of
the railway. Moreover, the availability of the locomotive for use will incrcasc, raising its
productivity.
4.     Under the current maintenance system on Perumka, when a component is ready to be
overhauled, it is taken off the locomotive. Once off the locomotive, the component is taken
apart, parts changed, serviced, reassefnbled, and tested. After overhaul the component is
reinstalled on the locomotive, and only then is the locomotive ready to pull trains. The
process of overhauling a component takes a considerable length of time. During all that time
the locomotive is out of service and does not perform any service. It is not earning any
money.
5.     To shorten the out of service time of the locomotive, the UNIT EXCHANGE
MAINTENANCE SYSTEM is also introduced. In essence, thc unit exchange system
provides a ready-for-use component beforc a similar component is removed from a
locomotive for overhaul.  The exchange unit can be installed immcdiatcly when the
component to be overhauled is taken off the locomotive.  This process shortens the
locomotive maintenance down-time and increases its availability for service.
6.     During a locomotive general overhaul at the worklshop, all components arc taken off
and overhauled. On Perumka at present (without a unit exchange maintenance system) the
general overhaul lasts about 70 days.  With a unit exchange maintenancc systcm, thc



-37-
P';,  2  ol 4
o%crhanlLI tinic can bc rceLdLCClt to betwecen 24  ndl 3 () JIIS s, b.1scd on (XC1utul cxpc penen. onl
other rail wvays.
7.     Withl a proper uLtil exch ccma ntcnance systcIll It Call bc c unxprat 'Cdly cxpecd
thalt the availabilitv ot thc ('Crunika dicscl clectric IocomIotivc  llcet Oil Java1 couLld b
increased from about 70 0/, to S5 %/0. \Vith the curreint flect of 142 loconmotives. tilis would
meain an increasc of about 2 I ready-to-rull locomotives, without incrcasin,g  the size ol the
fleet. This Would result in a saving in the ownership cost and in the fixed maiililnaclilc cost
per locomotive owned of 2! locomotlives.
S.     Apart from  the benctfis of the Unlit exchangc mnaint&zince systenm, the on-tilme
preventiLve maintenance svstem11 also can lead to miore serviceable locomotives in the lleet
duLe to less downtime tor ml;aintenianice. And with the anticipated im1provemllent in locomotive
reliability, the currenit daily routine checks ol locomotives which are necessitated by the high
component failure rates can be eliminatod, resulting in more cost savings. It is estinmated that
Perumk-a's total beneFit from  the Oni-time Preventivc Maintenance System  vitht Unit
Exchangc should be the equivalent of adding 25 to 30 locomotives to the fleet, an increase
equal to one-fifth of the fAect.
9.     Under the proposed project, unit exchange of most components would be done in the
Semarang or Bandung locomotive depots or running shops. Exchange of diesel engines and
main generators would be done in Yogyakarta Workshop. General overhauls, which occur
every 6 to 8 years, also would be accomplished in the Yogyakarta Workshop.
I0.    After components are taken off locomotives in the Semarang and Bandung depots,
they would be sent to Yogyakarta Workshop for overhaul. The workshop would repair and
overhaul the components, maintaining a pool of ready-to-use components for dispatch to the
depot when needed in exchange for defectiec components removed from locomotives. By
concentrating the repair of componerir- n Yogvakarta Workshop, the quality of
workmanship should improve.
11.    Yogyakarta Workshop manages the unit exchange pools, but both depots and the
workshop must know at any time where the status of various components (including those on
locomotives) and when they are due for overhaul. To monitor all 3,600 components in a
fleet of 142 locomotives, a master locomotive maintenance schedule must be prepared and
kept up to date. This is best done by a computer system to provide adequate monitoring,
with a data base that includes serial numbers and names of components, their location and
status, and their overhaul date. With a computer in the workshop linked on line and in real
time with similar computers in each depot, the system should provide all necessary
information for managing the unit exchange maintenance system. Each depot would know
what component on which locomotive must be exchanged when. The workshop also would
know the stock levels of components in the depots and be able to anticipate the depots' needs
as well as its own for repaired components. With the information system, Yogyakarta
Workshop also can monitor the overhaul workload of its various shops and plan the
availability of parts and materials along with the shop loading.



-83-
.-\nnexl 4.1I
'lPat'e 3 ot 4
12.   \Althou-1h tilhc 01 aiT'le PreVenti vc N1intenance                  liste   with  lnit Exchalin   ir
fairly straigZhtforvard. there are nany aspects to the svstcim thait halie to he a1deqluately
addressed c    it its to be SLIccCSSulIov timpleCInientdCi.  Perulinkai \ill rcCed to estaLblishi an
Implementation leamn that consists ol knowiccldeable. pro-;icti[  rrrla:ars and en1emincers.
vnitlh [IhC ,Liil sUpport ot ulppcr niznagcrnent. Experiecc hais sho%%Il thI,t ti1c ImpIemICen1clitation
Teami will needc to proper-lv riianage all of the foIlowirln aspects, or- the new mintenancc
systciini v   not be successtul
a)      How ma livy coin lpo(enlits arc require(I to SL pport unit exchalin.oc" Iix[crpcicc has
shown that 3 to 5 %/ of thIe nulmber of e ach coriiponieit in tie cuit ire lleet is rcqUired.
For inistince, wtit  a flcet 1 20 Gcnic ;il Elettric gciicratort, theCre is a1 riCCed t;Or aboLut 4
serviccabie generators in the Ulit exchlamr,e pool. TIe exacNt [percentagw ,e wvoLild be
calculaLted from data for Mean  'Mice 3ceween FIailures, iMea1 ilime lo Repair, and
other Ibactors relating to thc workshop.
b)     Hows n yian  depots arc required? Perumkia now has about 25 dcpots on Java, which
is far too many for a unit exchange maintenance systemn. 'ossibly twenty depots will
have to bc closed.
c)     What equipment, facilitics, and  manpower arc required  by the depots to
performii the exchange of components properly, safely, and  in the shortest
possiblc time?
d)     What equipment, facilities, and  manpowvcr are  required  bv  Yogyakarta
Workshop? The work-shop will need some additional machinery and rearrangement
to improve work tlow. Cleaning, de-fueling, and dce-oiling facilities, located outside
the shop buildinas, will be needed to help keep the shops clean. A dirty shop is not
conducive to the performance of accuirate and high quality work, such as is required
for engine, governor, and bearing airs.
e)     WVhat will be required to insure proper quality?  The depots and the workshop
will need an operational Quality Control Organization to help ensure that overhauled
components are in an as-new condition when they leave the workshop for the depot
and that the components installed by the depot are aligned properly.
f)     What is needed  to secure adequate supply to the  vorklshop  of piarts and
materials for component repair and replacenient?   An  leficient parts supply
(including purchase authorization and funding) must be put in place to insure the
availability of parts when needed by the workshop and to ensure the prudent usc of
spare parts' funds.
g)     What training is needed? Training must be provided for maintcnancc craftsmen,
quality control inspectors, supervisors, and managers to make things happcn in the
proper manner. Especially important is that the training of craftsmen must involvc
hands-on training based on step-by-step shop procedures wvhich are now almost non-
existent.



-89-
Annex 4.1
1'Pl,,ce 4 ot 4
hl)    VNWIIhat sIiouIdI be t he. role ot htc locoriotive cii>i, IiiecC  (d rive c r)?   ic, \ nov\ are p;`rt
ot' the illaintc  e ila    ort_ alizaztion, bLIL thlC ConsiltalTlt hlaLs recominienddc that thev be
mo'.cd to the Operating Department. In thC ILiturc, loconiotiVC C ye  ,iles should not
bc rccaruliteld fromll Lthe a1reaCdL  sCarrce nlulimiber ol'maliltennce technicialls.
i)     Iloow sheliili tic nma inten.anec cft'eort be or,a inized  'I'hc Temaintenlance org,anization
must be chail-ed so that tile depots and Yogyakarta \W'orkshop are ulidcer a sinlc
division or department hcad. l'hc prescit orglanization puts dCp0ots and( the vworkshop
in two separate directorates, so that coordination and interchange of' mcthodls and
skills are not easily achieved. This arrangerment wnould not be workable tiIndicr a1 unit
cxchangc system of locomotive maintenance.



INDONESIA
RAIl  AY   lF:lICIENC'Y l'ROJ l:CT
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
List or T A                  implementing        Esl. Cost va          Stalling a/           Service         Sul;im u l')Ucurliruzrt  1 xpCCICL
Contract/Activity                 Agencies           (USSO0O)         I'oreign      L.ocal     Dur;rtion          lP epar;niuon bl          Shirt
--- (Sla f lhl10110)----  (h1i nll)     T1'0R        Slior lit Li:l De
A. Policy Reform
IACC Advisor                                    IACC/R'I'I'                                                                                               Nov-96
RTF Consultants                                 IACC/I'II'
Corporate Restructuring                                                                                                                               M; y-97
Corporate l'lanning                                                                                                                                    Jil-97
Legal                                                                                                                                                 I)cc-96
Fixed Asset lRevaluation                                                                                                                              Ma;ry-97
Manpower and Staffing                                                                                                                                 Oct-97
MIS                                                                                                                                                   Oct-97
P'rivate Plarticipation                               .. -                                                                                            Aug-97
I'SO Compensation and Track
Access Charges Advisor                                                                                                                                NI;iy-96
B. Implementation Support & Training
Jakarta Bandung Corridor                       IlPMU/J-Il I'IU                                                                                            J 1-97
Track Upgrading and Maintenance               I'hvlU/J-l I'IU                                                                                            Oc -97
Locomotive Maintenance                        PhIU/Loco l'IU                                                                                              Oct-97
C. Institutional Development                      I'MlU/I.D. IPIU
Capacity Planining                                                                                                                                        Sc -97
'I'rack and Bridge MIS                                                                                                                                    Scp-97
Signal and Train                                                                                                                                          Sep-97
Operating Regulations                                                                                                                                                          ,
Jakarta-Bandung Corridor                                                                                                                                  Sclp-97
Study
a/ indicative for cost estimatinig purpose only
bl For monitoring purposes






Annex 4.3, Page 1
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROJECT COST
Rupiahs, millions
Physical contingencies on Base Cost:             10% ]                                                             Prices as of January 1,1996
Exchange rate (Jan. 1, 96), Rup_ahs_US$:        2,331 |                                                            Loan effective: January 1997  _
I - GOl financed infrastructure (other                    1997                              1998                               1999 
Items to be linanced bY Perunmka          Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total
A. Policy reform  #                               397       1,588       1,985        397       1,588      1,985        397        1,588      1.985
B. Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
# 1. New second main track and stabons          2,501       2,331       4,832      4,501       3,497      7,998       6,993      2,331       9,324
# 2. New rail (combined with 100 track km)          0       3,497       3,497          0       1,070      1,070          0           0           0
# 3. Sleepers and fasteners                         0       2,331       2,331          0       2,590      2,590           0          0           0
# 4. New tumouts                                    0       6,993       6,993          0       4,800      4,800           0          0           0
# 5. Alternative route via Bogor                3,497         240       3,737      1,774          11      1,785           0          0           0
# 6. New signaling, ongoing contract                0      93,240     93,240           0      37,296     37,296           0          0           0
# 7. Cikampek stadon remodeling                     0           0          0           0           0          0           0          0           0
# 8. New signaling, Cikampek-Padalarang             0           0          0       1,399       9,324     10,723       1,399     13,986      15,385
9. Land acquisition and resettlement            699           0        699       1,007          0       1,007          0           0           0
# 10. Miscellaneous                                 0         699        699         699       2,098      2,797       1,632      2,331       3,963
11. Project managementand tralning              244        974       1,218         244        974       1,218        244         974       1,218   .
Total, Jakarta-Bandung Corddor                6,941        s        g0,305s117,246  9,624  61,659      71,283      10,267     19,622      29,889
C. Track maintenance system
# 1. New and relay mil program                      0       2,331       2,331      2,331      10,490     12,821       4,662     10,490      15,152
# 2. Main track restoration                         0         117        117         233        932       1,166       1,864        932       2,797
# 3. Rail reclamation yard and rail train         466       2.098       2,564        513       3,263      3,776        239         241        480
# 4. Project management and training              234         935       1,168        234        935       1,168        234         935       1,168
Total, track maintenanco system                 700       5,480       6,180      3,311      15,620     18,930       6.999     12,598      19.596
D. LocomoUve unit exchango
1. Yogyakarta Workshop                           35        466         501         699       1,166      1,85        466       2,331       2,797
2. Bandung and Semarang Depots                  117           0        117         117       1,166      1,282        117       1,166       1,282
3. Environmental protection works               233         117        350         233        699         932        233         233        466
4. Unit exchange component parts                  0           0          0           0       2,331      2,331          0       4,662       4,662
5. Project management and training              191         763        954         191        763         954        191         763        954
Total, locomoUve unit exchange system           575       1,346       1,921      1,240       6,124      7,364       1,007      9,155      10,161
El. Institutional development                     175         702        877         175        702         877         175        702         877
E2. Institutional development *                   195         779        974         195        779         974         195        779         974
Base cost                                       8,983    120,200    129,184       14,941,    86,473    101,414       19,040     44,444      63,484
Physical conUngencies (except Une 2F)           898       2,696      3,594       1,494       4,918      6,412       1,904      4,444       6,348
Price contingencies (except Une 2F)
% peryear                                    8.7         8.7                    8.7        8.7                    8.7         8.7
% compounded                                13.4        13.4                   23.3       23.3                   34.0        34.0
Amount                                     1,324       3,974      5,298       3,829     12,604      16,433      7,121      16,622     23,743   u
Total project cost                              11,206    126,870    138,076      20,265    103,995    124,259       28,065     65,510_  _93575   -



Annex 4.3, Page 2
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROJECT COST
Rupiahs, millions
- GOI financed infrastructure (other                 2000                             2001                            Total
Items to be financed by Perumka        Local      Forei n     Total     Local      Foreign     Total     Local     Foreign     Total
A. Poficy reform  #                             397      1,588      1,985        397      1,588      1,985      1,985      7,941      9,926
B. Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
# 1. New second main track and statons        4,662      2,331      6,993      8,349      1,083      9,433     27,007     11,573     38,580
# 2. New rail (combined with 100 track km)        0          0         0           0          0         0          0       4,567      4,567
# 3. Sleepers and fasteners                       0        816       816           0          1          1         0       5,737      5,737
# 4. New tumouts                                  0      3,277      3,277          0          1          1         0      15,071     15,071
# 5. Alternatve route via Bogor                   0          0          0          0          0         0       5,271       251       5,522
# 6. New signaling, ongoing contract              0          0         0           0          0         0          0    130,536    130,536
# 7. Cikampek stabon remodeling               1,632      4,196      5,828        201        81        282       1,833      4,277      6,110
# 8. New signaling, Cikampek-Padalarang       1,399     16,317     17,716      1,363     10,406     11,769      5,559     50,033     55,592
9. Land acquisition and resettlement            0          0         0           0          0         0       1,706         0       1,706
# 10. Miscellaneous                            932       2,331      3,263      1,659        880      2,538      4,922      8,339     13,261
11. ProJect management and training          244        974       1,218       244        974       1,218      1,218      4,872     6,090   
Total, Jakarta-Bandung Corridor             8,868  _"F0.U42,   39,111       11,816     13,427     25,243     47,516    235,256    282,772
C. Track maintenance system
# 1. New and relay rail program               4,662     10,490     15,152      9,121     11,091     20,212     20,776     44,890     65,666
# 2. Main track restoration                   1,825       731       2,556      2,125       431       2,556      6,047      3,143      9,191
# 3. Rail reclamation yard and rail train         0          0         0           0          0         0       1,218      5,603      6,821
# 4. ProJect management and training            234        935      1,168        234        935      1,168      1,168      4,673      5,841
Total, track maintenance system             6,720     12,155     18,875     11,480     12,457     23,936     29,210     58,309     87,519
D. Loco motive unit exchange
1. Yogyakarta Workshop                       466       3,497      3,963       319       1,118      1,43k      1,985      8,577     10,562
2. Bandung and Semarang Depots                117      1,166      1,282         21       601        622        487       4,097      4,584
3. Environmental protection works             117        233       350         159        179       338        974       1,462      2,436
4. Unit exchange component parts               0       4,662      4,662          0        916       916          0      12,571     12,571
5. Project management and training           191        763        954         191       763        954        954       3,816      4,769
Total, locomotive unit exchange system       890      10,320     11,210       689       3,577      4,266      4,401     30,522     34,923
El. Institutional development                   175        702       877         175        702       877        877       3,508      4,385
E2. Institutional development #                 195        779       974         195        779       974        974       3,897      4,872
Base cost                                    17,246     55,787     73,033     24,752 ,   32,530     57,282     84,962    339,434    424,39G
Physical contingendes (except Une 2F)       1,725      5,579      7,303      2,475      3,253      5,728      8,496     20,890     29,386
Price contingendes (except Line 2F)
% per year                                 8.7        8.7                   8.7        8.7
% compounded                              45.6       45.6                  58.3       58.3                  39.4      35.7       36.8
Amount                                   8,651     27,983     36,633     15,874     20,861     36,735     36,799    82,044    118,843  ru
Total proiect cost                           27,621     89,348    116,969     43.101     56,644     99,745    130 257   442,3_7    572,624 24



INDONESIA                                              Annex 4.3, Page 3
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROJECT COST
US Dollars, thousands
- GOI financed infrastructure (other                 1997                             1998                             1999
items to be fnanced by Perumka         Local      Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign     Total     Local     Foreign      Total
A. Policy reform #                              170        681        852        170        681        852        170        681       852
B. Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
#1. New second main track and stabons         1,073      1,000      2,073      1,931      1,500      3,431      3,000      1,000      4,000
# 2. New rail (combined with 100 track km)        0      1,500      1,500          0        459       459           0          0         0
#3. Sleepers andfasteners                         0      1,000      1,000          0      1,111      1,111          0          0         0
# 4. New tumouts                                  0      3,000      3,000          0      2,059      2.059          0          0         0
#5. Alternatve route via Bogor                1,500        103      1,603        761          5        766          0          0         0
# 6. New signaling, ongoing contract              0     40,000     40,000          0     16,000     16,000         0           0         0
# 7. Cikampek station remodeling                  0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
# B. New signaling, Cikampek-Padalarang           0          0          0        600      4,000      4,600       600       6,000      6,600
9. Land acquisition and resettlement         300           0        300        432          0        432          0         0          0
# 10. Miscellaneous                              0         300        300        300       900       1,200       700       1,000      1,700
11. Project management and training          105        418         523        105       418        523         105       418        523  w
Total, Jakarta-Bandung Corridor             2.978     47t321.  50,299        4,129     26,452     30,580      4,405      8,418     12,823
C. Track maintenance system
# 1. New and relay rail program                   0      1,000      1,000      1,000      4,500      5,500      2,000      4,500      6,500
# 2. Main track restoration                       0         50         50        100        400       500        800        400       1,200
# 3. Rail reclamation yard and rail traln      200         900      1,100        220      1,400      1,620       103         103       206
# 4. Project management and tralning            100        401        501        100       401        501         100       401        501
Total, track maintenance system              300       2,351      2,651      1,420      6,701      8,121      3,003      5,404      8,407
D. Loco motive unit exchange
1. Yogyakarta Workshop                        15        200        215        300        500       8ao         200       1,000      1,200
2. Bandung and Semarang Depots                50           0         50         50       500        550         50        500        550
3. Environmental protection works             100         50        150        100        300       400         100        100       200
4. Unit exchange component parts               0           0          0          0      1,000      1,000         0       2,000      2,000
5. Project management and training             82        327        409         82       327        409         82        327        409
Total, locomotive unit exchange system       247         577        824        532      2,627      3,159       432       3.927      4,359
El. Institutional development                    75        301        376         75        301       376         75        301        376
E2. Institutional development #                  84        334        418         84        334       418         84         334       418   v
Base cost                                     3,854     51,566     55,420      6,410,    37,097     43,507      8,168     19,0GG     27,234  z.
Physical contingendes (except Une 2F)        385       1,157      1,542        641      2,110      2,751       817       1,907      2,723
Price condngencies (except Une 2F)
% peryear                                  2.4        2.4                   2.4        2.4                   2.4        2.4
% compounded                               3.6        3.6                   6.1        6.1                   8.6       8.6
Amount                                    153        458        611        430       1,416      1,846       773       1,804     2,576   o
Total project cost                            4,392     53,181     57,572      7,481     40,622     48,103      9,758     22,777     32,534



INDONESIA                         Annex 4.3, Page 4
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROJECT COST
US Dollars, thousands
- GOI financed infrastructure (other                   2000                               2001                          Total             Bank
Items to be financed by Perumka           Local     Foreian      Total      Local      foreign      Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Finance
A. Policy reform  #                               170         681        852         170         681        852      852   3,407   4,258   3,407
B. Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
# 1. New second main track and stations         2,000       1,000       3,000      3,582        465       4,047  11,586   4,965  16,551   4,965
# 2. Nev rail (combined vwth 100 track km)          0           0          0           0           0          0        0   1,959   1,959    1,959
# 3. Sleepers and fasteners                         0         350        350           0           0          0        0   2,461   2,461   2,461
# 4. New tumouts                                    0       1,406       1,406          0           0          0        0   6,465   6,465   6,465
# 5. Alternatve route via Bogor                     0           0          0           0           0          0   2,261       108   2,369      108
# 6. New signaling, ongoing contract                0           0          0           0           0          0        0  56,000  56,000
#7. Cikampek stabon remodeling                    700       1,800       2,500         86          35        121      786    1,835   2,621    1,835
# 8. New signaling, Cikampek-Padalarang           600       7,000       7,600        585       4,464      5,049   2,385  21,464  23,849  21,464
9. Land acquisition and resettlement              0           0          0           0           0          0      732       0      732
# 10. Miscellaneous                               400       1,000       1,400        712        377        1,089   2,112   3,577   5,689   3,577
1 1. Project management and training            105         418        523         105        418         522     523   2,090   2,613   2,090  s
Total, Jakarta-Bandung Corridor               3,805   !:2,974        16,779      5,069       5,760     10,829  20,384 100,925 121,309  44,925
C. Track maintenance system                                -
# 1. New and relay rail program                 2,000       4,500       6,500      3,913       4,758      8,671   8,913  19,258  28,171   19,258
# 2. Main track restoration                       783         314       1,096        912         185       1,097   2,594    1,348   3,943    1.348
# 3. Rail reclamation yard and rail train           0           0           0          0           0          0      523   2,403   2,926   2,403
# 4. Project management and training              100         401        501         100        401         501      501    2,005   2,506   2,005
Total, track maintenance system               2,883       5,215       8,098      4,925       5,344     10,269  12,531  25,015  37,546  25,015
D. Locomotivc unit exchange
1. Yogyakarta Workshop                          200       1,500       1,700        137        479         6-46    852   3,679   4,531   3,679
2. Bandung and Semarang Depots                   50         500        550           9        258         267      209    1,758   1,967    1,758
3. En%ironmental protectionworks                 50         100        150          68          77        145      418     627    1,045      627
4. Unit exchange component parts                  0       2,000       2,000          0        393         393        0   5,393   5,393   5,393
5. Project management and training               82         327        409          82        327         409     409    1,637   2,046    1,637
Total, locomotve unit exchange system           382       4,427       4,809        296       1,534      1,830    1,888  13,094  14,982  13,094
El. InstituUonal development                       75         301        376          75        301         376      37G    1,505    1,881   1,505  ?
E2. Insttutional development 1                     84         334        418          84        334         418      418    1,672   2,090   1 672
Base cost                                       7,399      23,933      31,331     10,619g    13,955      24,574  36,449 145,617 182,066  89,617
Physical contngendes (except Une 2F)            740    . 2,393        3,133      1,062       1,396      2,457   3,645   8,962  12,607   8,962
Price contingencies (except Une 2F)
% peryear                                    2.4         2.4                    2.4         2.4
%compounded                                             11.2                    13.9       13.9                 9.7     8.9      9.1     8.9
Amount                                       912       2,948      3,860       1,624      2,134       3,757   3,891   8,760  12,650   8,760
Total project cost                               9,050     29,274      38,324     13,304      17,484     30,789  43,984 163,338  207,323 107.338



Annex 4.4
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
Rupiahs, millions
Financed by                       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        Total       %
Local costs - GOI financed            9,093      16,650     25,963      25,525     41,172    118,402       21%
IBRD TAP41 loan - GOI financed        1,981       2,154      2,341           0          0       6,476       1%
IBRD proposed loan - GOI financed    27,880      53,965     47,205      70,135     47,497    246,682       43%
Australia loan - GOI financed        93,240      37,296          0           0          0    130,536       23%
Subtotal - GOI financed           132,194    110,065      75,509     95,660     88,669    502,097       88%
Localcosts - Perumkafinanced          2,113       3,615      2,101       2,097      1,929      11,855       2%
IBRD loan - Perumka financed          3,769      10,580     15,964      19,213      9,146      58,673      10%
Subtotal - Perumka financed         5,882     14,195      18,066     21,310      11,076     70,528       12%
Total                               138,076    124,259      93,575    116,969      99,745    572,624      100%
Percent                                24%         22%         16%        20%        17%        100%                   n
US Dollars, thousands
Financed by                       1997        1998       1999        2000       2001        Total
Local costs - GOI financed            3,564       6,146      9,027       8,363     12,709      39,809      19%
IBRD TAP41 loan - GOI financed          776        795         814           0          0       2,386       1%
IBRD proposed loan - GOI financed    10,927      19,922     16,412      22,979     14,661      84,901      41%
Australia loan - GOI financed        40,000      16.000          0           0          0      56,000      27%
Subtotal - GOI financed           55,267      42,863      26,253     31,342      27,370    183,095      88%
Local costs - Perumka financed          828       1,335        731        687         596       4,176       2%
IBRD loan - Perumka financed          1,477       3,906      5.551       6,295      2,823      20,052      10%
Subtotal - Perumka financed         2,305      5,240       6,281      6,982      3,419      24,227       12%
Total                                57,572      48,103     32,534      38,324     30,789    207,323      100%         x
x
Percent                                28%         23%         16%        18%        15%        100%
Soufce: Perumka and mission estimates



Annex 4.4
Page 2
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN - SUMMARY
(USS million)
Source of Financing               Local  Foreign  T otal   %
IBRD proposed loan - lent to GOI                          85.2   85.2   41
IBRD proposed loan - onlent by GOI to Perunika            19.8   19.8   10
Total IBRD loan                                          105.0  105.0   51
Loans 3385-ND and 3913-lND (Policy Reform)                 2.4    2.4    1
IBRD total                                               107.4  107.4   52
GOI                                              39.7        0    39.7   19
Perumka                                           4.2        0     4.2    2
Government of Australia - lent to GOI              0      56.0   56.0   27
Total                                            43.9    163.4  207.3  100
Note: Due to rounding the above summary financing plan which was agreed at
negotiations differs marginally from the detailed plan shown on the previous page.
oo 
4S



-97-                                   Annex 4.5
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE /a
(US$ Million)
Cumulative
Bank FY  Semester          Semester    Cumulative            % of Loan
1997        1                 0             0                  0
11               3              3                  3
1998        1                 3             6                  6
11               8              15                 14
1999        1                13             27                 26
11               13             40                38
2000        1                13             53                 50
11               13             65                62
2001        1                13             78                 74
11               13             90                86
2002        1                 9            100                 95
11               3             103                98
2003        1                 2            105                100
/.a Based on standard Bankwide profile for railway projects modified from
30 to 28 quarters.






-99-
Annex 4.6
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND SCHEDULE
1.    Overall responsibility for coordinating and guiding the project's implementation will
be vested in the IACC which has already been established by Ministerial Decree. This
Committee will be assisted by the RTF on which Perumka is represented at director level.
The project's policy component will be implemented through this structure (Chart on
Implementation Arrangements).
1.    Technical management of the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor, track upgrading and
maintenance, and locomotive maintenance components, together with the Perumka
institutional strengthening component will be vested in a Project Management Unit
established within Perumka (PMUP).
3.    Reporting to the Project Management Unit Perumka (PMUP) will be three Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) staffed full-time by Perumka personnel:
a)   PIU for Jakarta-Bandung Corridor improvements and track maintenance system,
including related training. Both the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor improvements and the
track maintenance system would be the responsibility of one PIU in order to plan and
coordinate track construction and rail installation in the Corridor and elsewhere on
Java.
b)   PIU for Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System, including related training.
c)   PIU for Perumka institutional development.
4.    Consultants financed by GOI and the Bank would assist the PMUP and the PIUs in
implementing the project, and their appointment would be a condition of Bank approval of
the associated construction and equipment procurement contracts. Because of the complexity
of the interfaces between the various activities and the need for careful scheduling, the
consultants should be assisting the PIUs right from the start. Thus, for the Jakarta-Bandung
Corridor Development and the Track Upgrading and Maintenance System components, Bank
approval of the contracts for track works, supply and installation of signaling, and supply of
new rail will be contingent upon the consultants assisting Perumka in the implementation of
these components having been appointed.
5.    The project management and implementation schedule is shown in the following.



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Inter-Agency
Coordinating
Committee
Railway                      Inter Agency
Management                        Working
Advisor               -          Group
Restructuring                                                                                             Project
Task                                                                                                Management
Force                                                                                                   Unit
_ __ ___          ______              ____    _____      X    ___ _                                                          _____          ___ ______                ________
Corporate                Fixed                Manpower   *             Processes                      Priv. Sector          Jakarta-Bandung           Locomotive             Institutional
Restructuring             Assets              Planning/HRD                & MS                          Participation             /Track               Maintenance            Development
Working Group          Working Group           Working Group           Working Group                   Working Group                P                       PIU             l
Note: Preparation of proposals for the PSO and IMO budgets and for the track changes system  is treated as a structural responsibility of Perumka's Finance Director
and is not shown in this chart.



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995             1996      T       1997              1998              1999              2
ID   Task Name                                Duration    Start      Finish   02  Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2 03  Q4 0 1  Q2  Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2  Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 01  02
1    BOARD TO EFFECTIVENESS                     81.19d   11/12/96   3/17197                             __    _
2        1. Board Presentation                      lh   11/12/96  11/12/96
3        2. Loan Signing                          30m    12/10/96  12110/96
4        3. Effectiveness                           Oh    3/17/97   3/17/97                                       3/17
5
6    CONSULTANT FOR PMU                           652d    5/01/96  11/09/98
7        1. PSO Advisor (TAP41)                   230d    5/01/96   3/28/97
8        2. Preparation of bidding documents      196d   11/01/96   8/12197
9        3. Restructuring Advisor                 520d   11/01/96  11/09/98                             _
10
11   PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                     1237d    6/01/95   3/07/00  _
12       1. Resettlement & Land Acquisition       520d   11/01/96  11/09/98
13       2. PIU - Track Works                     836d    9/02/96  11/24/99                                                       _                                       |
14       3. PIU - Signalling                     1237d    6/01/95   3/07/00                                                    _
15       4. PIU - Workshop & Depot                 591d    9/02196  12116/98
16       5. TA - Institutional Development         330d    6/02/97   9/03/98
17
18   TRACK WORKS                                  870d    9/02/96   1/11/00
19       1. Management, SPN & Training            870d    9/02196   1/11/00
20           a. PMU prepares TOR & Shortlist        30d    9/02/96  10/11/96
21           b. WB reviews and issues NOL           14d   10/15/96  11/01/96
22           c. Preparation of proposals            30d   11/04/96  12/13/96                                                                                              I
23           d. Evaluate proposals                  14d   12116/961  1/14/97  Page1 of|
Page I of 6~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995             1996             1997             1998             1999       1 2
ID   Task Name                               Duration    Start    Finish   02 | Q3 I Q4 |  Q1 02 | 03 04 Ql 02 Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2 Q3 04 Q| Q2 03 04  01  02
24           e. WB issues approval of award       14d    1/15/97   2/03/97
26          f. GOI (MOC) gives approval           14d    4/01/97   4/18/97
26           g. Hold negotiations & sign contract  14d    4/21/97   5/08/97
27           h. WB reviews and approves contra     7d    5/19/97   5/27/97
28          i. Consultants mobilize               21d    5/28/97   6/24/97
29          j. Implementation period             665d    6/25/97   1/11/00             .            -.I
30
31       2. New Rail Supply                      298d    9/02/96  10/31/97             .                    _.
32           a. Prepare bidding documents         14d    9/02/96   9/19/96
33           b. WB reviews docs & issues NOL      14d   10/01/96  10/18/96                        - 
34           c. Bidding period                    30d   10/21/96  11/29/96                                                                                 .o
35           d. Evaluation of bids                21d   12/02/96   1/09/97                          . 
36           e. WB issues approval of award        7d    1/10/97   1/20/97
37          f. GOI (MOC) approves                 14d    1/21/97   2/07/97
38           g. Hold negotiations & sign contract  14d    2124/97   3/13/97
39           h. WB approves contract               7d    3/14/97   3/24/97
40           i. Manufacturing & shipping         160d    3/25/97  10/31/97
41               Delivery #1                      60d    3/25/97   6/15/97
42               Delivery #2                     100d    6/16/97  10/31/97
43._
44       3. New Turnouts Supply                  305d    9/02/96  11/11197
45           a. Prepare bidding documents         14d    9/02/96   9/19/96
46           b. WB reviews docs & issues NOL      14d   10/01/96  10/18/96.
Page 2 of 6



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995      |      1996             1997              1998             1999              2
ID   Task Name                               Duration    Start    Finish   Q2 Q3 Q4  01  02  03  04 0 1 02 Q3   4 Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4 01 Q2 Q3 04  Q1  02
47           c. Bidding period                     30d   10/21/96  11/29/96
48           d. Evaluation of bids                 21d   12/02/96   1/09/97
49           e. WB issues approval of award         6d    1/10/97   1/17/97                          . 
50           f. GOI (MOC) approves                 24d    1/21/97   2/21/97                          .
51           g. Hold negotiations & sign contract  14d    2/24/97   3/13/97
52           h. WB approves contract                7d    3/14/97   3/24/97                          -        1
53           i. Manufacturing & shipping          167d    3/25/97  11/11/97                                 _
54               Delivery #1                      89d    3/25/97   7/24/97
55               Delivery #2    -                  78d    7/25197  11/11(97
56
57       4. Concrete Sleeper & Fastener Suppi       8d             11/28/97                                                                                                w
58           a. Prepare bidding documents          15d    9/02/96   9/20/96
59           b. WB reviews docs & issues NOL       13d   10/01/96  10/17/96
60           c. Bidding period                     30d   10/18/96  11/28/96
61           d. Evaluation of bids                 21d   11/29/96   1/08/97
62           e WB issues approval of award          7d    1/09/97   1/17/97
63           f. GOI (MOC) approves                 14d    4/01/97   4/18/97
64           g. Hold negotiations & sign contract  20d    4/21/97   5/16/97
65           h. WB approves contract                Bd    5/19197   5/28/97
66          i. Manufacturing & shipping           116d    6/20(97  11/28/97
67               Delivery #1                       56d    6/20/97   9/05/97
68               Delivery #2                      60d    9/08/97  11/28/97
69                                                                                      :                                  : 
Page 3 of 6
ON~



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995             1996             1997             1998       |     1999             2
ID   Task Name                               Duration    Start    Finish   02 Q3 Q4 Q1  Q2 Q3 Q4 Q    2 Q3 Q4 Q1  02 Q3 04                           3Q4   1   Q2
70       5. Track Upgrading & Rail Works         690d    4/14/97  12/02/99                                  _                                            _
71           a. Preparation of bidding documents  36d    4/14/97   6/02197
72           b. WB reviews & issues NOL           15d    6/03/97   6/20/97
73           c. Bidding period (3-4 packages)     30d    6/23/97   8/01/97
74               (1) Station (remodel/re-layout)  30d    6/23/97   8/01/97
75               (2) Double track, partial track  30d    6/23/97   8/01/97
76               (3) Rail management program      30d    6/23/97   8/01/97
77           d. Bid evaluation                    14d    8/04/97   8/21/97
78           e. WB approves award                 14d    8/22/97   9/10/97
79          f. GOI (MOC) approves                 22d    9/11/97  10/10/97
80           g. Negotiations & signing of contract  21d   10/13/97  11/10/97                                                                                           Co
81           h. WB approves contract               7d   11/11/97  11/19/97
82          i. Design & construction period      438d    3/31/98  12/02/99
83
84       6. Alternative Route Boo-Sl-PDL         304d    9102196  1110197             :                _             _
85           a. Preparation of bidding documents  31d    9/02/96  10/14/96
86           b. WB reviews and issues NOL         14d   10/15/96  11/01/96
87           c. Bidding Period                    14d   11/04/96  11/21/96
88               (1) Replace Bridge 433           14d   11/04/96  11/21/96
89               (2) Upgrading track, structures  14d   11/04/96  11/21/96
90           d. Evaluate bids                     14d   11/22196  12/11/96
91           e. WB approves award                  7d   12/12/96  12/20/96
92          f. GOI (MOC) approves                 14d    4/01/97   4/18/97
Page 4 of 6



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
1995             1996             1997              1998             1999              2
ID   Task Name                               Duration    Start    FInish   Q2 Q3 04 Q1  Q2 Q3 Q4 01  Q2 Q3 Q4 01  Q2 Q3 Q4 01  Q2 Q3 Q4 01  Q2
93           g. Negotiations & contract signing   20d    4121/97   5/18/97
94           h. WB approves contract               7d    5/19/97   5/27/97
95          i. Design & construction period       120d    5/28/97  11/10/97
96
97       7. Perumka Force Account Task (Trac     700d    3/03/97  11/04/99              .
98
99   SIGNALLING                                 1279d    6101/95   5/04100
100       1. Signalling BKS-CKPIPDL-GDBG          795d    6/01/95   6126198
101       2. Signalling BKS-CKP (Modiflcations)   357d    8/01/96  12123197                          *
102           a. GEC-ALSTHOM Re-design signal     209d    8/01/96   5/30/97
103           b. Perumka re-design sta. track      86d    8/01/96  11/28/96
104           c. Perumka Project construct         88d    4/01/97   7/30/97
105           d. GEC-ALSTHOM Install Modified     148d    6/02/97  12123/97
106       3. Signalling CKP-PDL                   800d    4114/97   5/04100
107       4. Perumka Force Acct: Design & Inst    970d    8101/96   4/28/00
108
109   WORKSHOP & DEPOT                            627d    9/02196   2/04/99
110       1. Consultants: Mgmt, SPN, TRG          355d    9/02/96   1/20/98
111       2. Civil Works & Installation           223d    5/06/97   3/11/98
112           a. Yogyakarta Workshop              223d    5/06/97   3/11/98
113           b. Bandung Depot                    223d    5/06/97   3/11/98
114          c. Semarang Depot                    223d    5/06/97   3/11/98
115       3. Machinery Purchase                345.94d    9/02/96   1/07/98
Page 5 of 6



INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1995             1996              1997       [      1998             1999              2
ID   Task Name                                Duration    Start     Finish   Q2  Q3 Q4        02  03  04 0 Q1  02 03 0 Q4 Q01  Q2  0 03  0 Q4 01  Q2  Q3  Q4 Q-i| Q2
116           a. Yogyakarta Workshop               345d    9/02/96   1/06/98
117       ~~b. Bandung Depot                345.94d    9/02/96   1/07/98 
___    ___ __ ___                     __            _              ___R- 
118           c. Semarang Depot                 345.94d    9/02/96   1/07/98
119       4. Unit Exchange Component Supply       409d    5/06197  11/26/98
120           a. Tender Part 1         |           350d    5/06/97   9/04/98                                                 -
121           b. Tender Part 2                     348d    6/17/97  10/15/98
122           c. Tender Part 3                     348d_ 1 7/29/97  11/26/98
123       5. Perumka Force Account Task       I 475d    4/14/97   2/04/99                              .
124 4      6. Comm-issioning                              1 BOd 11/13/98   2/04/99
Task                                   Summary           IV,Rolled Up Progress
Project: INDONES!A: Railway Efci     Progress                               Rolled Up Task
IDate- 10/03/96
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone 



INI)ONESIA - IRAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Base Year                                                          Full Iiipact
Objective                         Indicator                      Unit           1995      1997     1998      1999    2000    2001       20(2       Year
I. Polic) Reform          a. Aclioll Plan ImplemIen1tationII        % completed         n.a.
on schedule
2. Capital Investnieit     a. Annual revisioni of infrastiuctiure   sulbmIitted c.na.
Rationalizattion           investmenlt plan                       on timie
b. Financial evaluation of Pertinikii    Rp billion         nI;          I                U 0.5     0.5      0.5      0 5
investment projects greatcr thani
3. Operationial            a. Loco availability at lBandiung       9% available          80         8 1      83       85        85       85       85
Performiiance              and Semarang
b. Loco availability at other Java       % available         82.3      82.5      83        85       85       85        85
depots
c. Java maini track kilometers with     lJnit per day         35        35       35        35       35       30        30
temporary speed restrictions
d. Java main track kilometers with       km                  960        940      920      900       880      860      890
track quality below standard
c. Total Perunika labor productivity     IOOotlI Pcrsoli     520        575      630      675      720       770      825
t. Java locomiiotive fleet utilizaltionl  t I0)0rtJHAt )      X187     208       245      285      315      32 5      330
b. km per day       350       434       493      524      545       560      570
g Java intercity coach fleet            tU00 I jiACI)         35        35       37        3'9      46       50        53
utilizaitioln
4. Financial               a. Self-financing ratio                  Decimal n,dtio                (t 27     0.42     0.39      0.39     0.36     0.40
Performancc             b. Debt service coverage                  Decimal r.tio                  3.4      2.8      2.2       2.2      2.0      2.1
c. Returni on net assets I/                                              6        2        2         3        1        5
5. Jakarta-Lanldunig       a. Peak period Capacity available        No. trainis ocr       3         3        3         3        3        S        5
Corridor Performanice                                             hour
b. Peak period capacity utilized         No. trainis per     2.5        2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5       3        4
hou r
c. Passenger and freight train delays    Minutes per
durinig constructiomt/imiiplemenitation  day                                                                                                >
6. Quality ofSerivice      a. Java passenger train punctuality      % of traiins         35         38       40       42       45        45       45
(trains less than 15 minutes late)    operated                                                                                              x
b. Java container train punictuality    %O of' rai ns         2s '.5             25        3(0      30       35       35                      >
(triins less than 30 minutes late)    operaled
TU = 'I'raffic Unit               ALD = Available Loco Day                           ACI) - Available Coachi Day
ti based on revalued assets 1rom 1998






-109-
Annex 4.8
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN La
Mission
Timing                          Main Activities                          Skills Required        SWs
Oct 1996     INITIAL MISSION  to review status concerning loan        Task manager                 5
effectiveness conditions, project management, railway   Railway specialist
policy reforms, and procurement                         Functional specialists
Apr 1997     SUPERVISION covering overall project, including          Railway specialist           5
performance indicators and status of policy reforms,    Resettlement specialist
investment components, and procurement                  Financial specialist
Functional specialists
Oct 1997     INTERIM SUPERVISION covering status of policy            Railway specialist          4
reforms, investment components, and procurement         Resettlement specialist
Functional specialists
Apr 1998     SUPERVISION covering overall project, including          Railway specialist           6
performance indicators and status of policy reforms,    Resettlement specialist
investment components, and procurement                  Financial specialist
Functional specialists
Oct 1998     INTERIM SUPERVISION covering status of policy            Railway specialist           3
reforms. investment components, and procurement         Functional specialists
Apr 1999     MID TERM REVIEW                                          Transport economist          7
Railway specialist
Resettlement specialist
Financial specialist
Functional specialists
Jan 2000     INTERIM SUPERVISION covering status of policy            Railway specialist          3
reforms, investment components, and procurement         Functional specialists
Oct 2000     SUPERVISION covering overall project, including          Transport economist          4
performance indicators and status of policy reforms,    Railway engineer
investment components, and procurement                  Functional specialists
Jul 2001     INTERIM SUPERVISION covering status of policy            Railway specialist          3
reforms, investment components, and procurement         Functional specialists
Apr 2002     ICR mission to review all aspects of project             Transport economist          4
implementation and to assess overall project performance  Railway specialist
Financial specialist
Resettlement specialist
Functional specialists
/a   Total planned supervision staff weeks in headquarters and field are 25 in the first year, 20 in the second and
third year, and 15 on the last twvo years.






-lll-
Annex 5.1
Page 1 of 5
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Jakarta -Bandung Corridor Improvements
1.     Definition of the Corridor: This investment component involves the corridor Jakarta-Cikampek-
Bandung. The double track railway line between Jakarta-Cikampek serves not only traffic to and from
Bandung, but also carries all trains to and from points east of Jakarta, such as traffic to and from
Surabaya-Solo-Yogyakarta-Cirebon. and Surabaya-Semarang-Cirebon. The investment plans for the
corridor infrastructure improvements are based on the total train operations over the Jakarta-Cikampek-
Bandung corridor. The economic and financial evaluation considers only those traffic flows to/from
Jakarta with Bandung as their origin/destination and the corresponding investments that contribute only to
these traffic flows (See the subsection "Investments" below).
2.     Base Case and Project Case: Base case scenario represents the case where a minimum level of
investment is made which is necessary to maintain the present situation and provide the train services that
are now being offered. Project case scenario represents the situation in which the proposed project is
initiated in 1997 and fully implemented by 2001.
3.     A 20-year period after project completion (year 2001) is taken as the evaluation period, i.e., from
2002 to 2021.
4.     Tariffs:  For the base case, no future tariff increase is assumed for either rail passenger or
container services. For the project case, a 10% increase for rail passenger service is assumed for 2002, the
first year after project completion, but no tariff increase for rail container service is assumed over the
evaluation period.
,.    Passenger Traffic Forecast:  Based on the historical trend and the expected growth in
urbanization, economic activities and personal income, a growth rate of 8% per year is assumed for both
executive and business passengers.
6.     Price elasticity of executive class is assumed to be -0.5. and for business class it is -0.7.
7.     When the toil road between Cikampek and Padalarang opens in 2000, it is assumed that 10% of
executive passengers and 15% of business passengers will switch to road.
8.     For the base case, it is projected that total executive and business passengers would reach 4.0
million by 2003, using up the available track capacity. For the project case, track capacity, which is
expandcd by the proposed project, is projected to be reached in 2017, when the total passengers are
estimated to approach 11 million.
9.     Number of trains per day is estimated on the basis of average daily passenger demand plus an extra
10% for peak demand. One type of train composition is with 8 coach/400 seat capacity, another with 12
coach/640 seat capacity, both assuming 85% occupancy rate.
10.    Container Traffic Forecast: For the rail container transport, no growth is assumed during the
project implementation period. After project implementation, the traffic between Gedebage and Tanjung
Priok is projected to grow at 4% per year and approach 120.000 TEUs by 2021, averaging 2.8% per year
from 1997 to 2021, and the traffic between Cibungur and Tanjung Priok is projected to grow at 1%
initially, then at 2% per year, averaging 1.4% per year from 1997 to 2021.
11.    When the toll road between Cikampek and Padalarang opens in 2000, it is assumed that 10% of the
container traffic will be diverted to road.
12.    Number of container trains is estimated by assuming 33 containers (20 foot) per train with 90%
occupancy rate (i.e., 30 containers per train).



-112-                                     Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 5
13.    For the base case, track capacity is reached at the current level of four trains per day per direction
and no additional container trains can be transported from then on. For the project case, the expanded
track capacity is sufficient to accommodate container traffic over the evaluation period.
14.   Investments: Because the Jakarta-Bandung traffic flow accounts for only 35% of the total traffic
running between Bekasi-Cikampek, 40% of the proposed investments within the Bekasi-Cikampek section
are allocated to the Jakarta-Bandung traffic flows. A 10% physical contingency allowance is included in
the total investment cost.
15.    For the project case, a 10% efficiency improvement is assumed for rolling stock utilization as a
result of reduced turnaround time.
16.    Expected life of infrastructure and rolling stock are assumed as follows: 25 years for signaling and
telecommunications, 30 years for track and bridge, 25 years for locomotive, and 40 years for coach and
wagon. The investment residual values (infrastructure and rolling stock) are treated as positive revenues at
the end of the evaluation period.
17.    Operating Costs: Operating costs are separated into (fixed) infrastructure maintenance costs,
which is independent of traffic volume, and (variable) direct operational costs, which is dependent on traffic
volume.
18.   Infrastructure maintenance costs are estimated to increase by RpO.9 billion due to tamping and to
decrease by RpO.7 billion due to installation of continuously welded rail. Maintenance of modern signaling
is estimated to be 1% of investments in the first three years and 3% after that. The maintenance costs in
the current situation, RpO.3 billion, is subtracted.
19.    Direct operational costs consist of rolling stock maintenance costs, fuel and lubricants costs, and
personnel costs. They are estimated as follows:
Unit costs (Rp/train-km)             Personnel        Fuel       Maintenance
I locomotive and 8 coaches              560           1,200         3,636
2 locomotives and 12 coaches            900           2,400         6,129
1 locomotive container train            280           1,160         7,479
2 locomotive container train            280           2,320        11,556
Sources: "The Jakarta-Bandung Railway Corridor," by Railplan, et al, 1995.
20.    For the project case, the operating costs are assumed to be 10% lower than those above due to
reduced trip time.
21.    Economic and Financial Analysis: The economic analysis compares total costs between the base
case and the project case. The estimated total costs include rail and road capital and maintenance costs,
rolling stock and vehicle ownership and operating costs, transit time costs, and air pollution and accident
costs.
22.    For the base case where the rail capacity will be reached in 2003, road provision and maintenance
costs and vehicle operating costs are estimated assuming that the additional rail passengers that would have
traveled by rail will have to travel by road due to lack of rail capacity. For the project case, these road
costs are zero because the passengers will be able to travel by rail.
23.    Three types of passenger road vehicles are considered: car, small bus and large bus. Average
occupancy is assumed as 1.5 for car, 15 for small bus, and 30 for large bus. Modal shares for those who
switch from rail to road are assumed as 50% for car. 30% for small bus, and 20% for large bus.



-113-
Annex 5.1
Page 3 of 5
24.    For container transport by road, it is assumed that 50% of the trucks carry one 20 foot container,
and the other 50% carry either one 40 foot container or two 20 foot containers. It is further assumed that
containers, combining full and empty, on average hold 10 tons per 20 foot container.
25.    Unit road provision and maintenance costs and VOCs are assumed as follows:
(Rp/vehicle-km)                 Vehicle operating costs    Road provision and maintenance
costs
Car                                      244                            131
Small bus                                374                            216
Large bus                                728                            284
Large truck                              977                            466
Sources: 'Expansion of Highway Capacity: Warrants for Upgrading," Working Paper, Indonesian Road Sector
Study, the World Bank, 1996, and 'Land Transport Development Plan, Technical Appendix IE, Vol
1, by Halcrow Fox and Associates, et al, 1992.
26.    Transit times between Jakarta city center to Bandung city center for vehicles before and after the
opening of the new toll road between Cikampek and Padalarang and for rail before and after the
implementation of the proposed project are assumed as follows:
Average Transit Time between Jakarta-Bandung
(City Center - City Ce nter)
Before toll road           After toll road
Car                     3 hours 30 minutes         2 hours 30 minutes
Small bus               4 hours 30 minutes         2 hours 45 minutes
Large bus               5 hours                    3 hours
Before project             After project
Rail                    3 hours                    2 hours 30 minutes
Sources: 'The Jakarta-Bandung Railway Corridor," by Railplan, et al, 1995, and 'Land Transport
Development Plan, Case Study No. 3, Passenger Services between Jakarta-Bandung," by
Halcrow Fox and Associates, et al, 1992.
27.    On the basis of a survey on rail passengers (executive and business classes) between Jakarta and
Bandung (carried out in 1991 for the Land Transport Development Plan study), a time value placed by the
executive and business travelers is estimated at Rp 1,400 per hour. The survey also showed that over 40%
of the passengers travel for business/official purposes, and that nearly 70% of the passengers own at least
one car. Separate analyses with and without transit time cost savings are conducted in order to assess the
impacts of this factor.
28.    Air pollution and accident costs are also considered. The unit costs are assumed as follows:
Air Pollution and Accident Costs
Passenger                 Rp/pass-km        Freight                   Rp/ton-km
Car                       132.8             Truck                      123.8
Bus                       123.8             Rail                         9.0
Rail                       20.3
Source: 'External Costs of Transportation," S. Mauch and W. Rothengatter, et al, Zurich/Karlsruhe, 1994, a
study estimating external costs of transportation in 17 European countries.



-1 1 4-
Annex 5.1
Page 4 of 5
29.    The cost difference betweeni road and rail is calculated. Accountinlg for data uncertailnties and
differences between levels of economic development, only 50% of the difference is counted in the
benefit calculation. Moreover, separate analyses with and without air pollution and accident costs are
conducted in order to assess the impacts of these factors.
30.    A financial analysis has also been carried out. The analysis compares net rail reveniues (rail
revenues minus rail and rolling stock investmenit and maintenance costs and train operating costs)
between the base case and the project case and no road infrastl-uctLure and vehicle costs are i'ivolved in
the calculation. Assumptions about rail infrastructure and rolling stock costs and tiaini operatinig costs
are the same as those in the economilc analysis.
B. Track Maintenance Svsteni
3 1.   Investments: Because new rail will need to be installed regardless of thle project, for the base
case, the investments would consist of: i) new and secondary rail installation: and ii) main track
restoration. For the project case, the investmenits would include two additional componienits finanicedl
ulider the project, i.e.: iii) the rail reclamation yard and rail train; and iv) the techniical assistance and
training. Furthermore, it is assumed that under the new procedures introduced throughl the project, the
costs incurred under items i) (new and secondarv rail) and ii) (main track restoration) would be some
I 0% higher than under the base case.
32.    Track Capital and Maintenance Costs: Current annual track capital investmilncit and
mainlten1ance costs for Perumka (including Java and Sumatra networks) are estinated at US$1 19 million
and US$43 million, respectively.
33.    For the base case, the costs on the Java network are estinated on the basis of track lengtlh. Thle
track on Java is 3,671 km long, while the total track lengthl under Perumka is 5,040 km. It follows that
the base case track capital investment and maintenance costs for the Java network are at US$86.7 nillion
and US$3 1.3 million per year, respectively.
34.    For the project case, the improved maintenance system is assumed to spread over the whole Java
network over a period of seven years, from 1997 to 2003. As the main benefit of the system is to extend
the life of rail, up to three times the current level, the corresponding track capital costs would decrease
accordingly as the improved maintenance system gradually spreads over the Java network. When the
new system reaches the whole Java network, the annual track capital costs would be just one third of the
current level. The assumptions on the specific percentages of track under the improved maintenance
system and the corresponding track capital costs are given as follows:
Year    % of Track        % of Track       Annual Track Capital Cost
Under Improved  Under Current             (US$ millioll)
Maintenance      Maintenance
1997         10 %              90 %        (IO% /3+90%)*86.7=80.9
1998         25 %              75 %        (25%/3+75%)*86.7=72.2
1999         40 %              60 %        (40%/3+60%)*86.7=63.6
2000          55 %             45 %        (55%/3+45%)*86.7=54.9
2001          70 %              30 %       (70%/3+30%)*86.7=46.2
2002          85 %              15 %       (85%/3+15%)*86.7=37.6
2003         100 %               0 %       (100%/3+0%)*86.7=28.9
Later years are assumed the same as year 2003



-115-
Annex 5.1
Page 5 of 5
35.    Track maintenance costs under the improved maintenance system are assumed to increase over the
project implementation period to twice the current level. The specific assumptions are as follows:
Year      % of Track Maint     Track Maintenance
Cost Increase Over    Costs (US$ million)
Current Level
1997              60 %         (1+60%)*31.3=50.1
1998              70 %         (1+70%)*31.3=53.2
1999              80 %         (1+80%)*31.3=56.4
2000              90 %         (1+90%)*31.3=59.5
2001             100 %         (1+100%)*31.3=62.6
Later years are assumed the same as year 2001
36.    Economic Analysis: The economic analysis compares the net investment costs and savings in
track capital and maintenance costs between the base case and the project case. Expected savings in rolling
stock operating costs are not considered. A 40-year period is assumed as the evaluation period. Longer
periods would not affect the results due to a discount rate of 12% and the high intemal rate of returns.
C. Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance Program
37.    As discussed in the main text, the proposed unit exchange program combined with the on-time
preventive maintenance system is expected to add an equivalent of 28 locomotives to the current diesel
electric locomotive fleet in Java, as a result of improved locomotive reliability and availability, and
replacement of daily and every other day checks by monthly checks. The benefits are the avoided
locomotive capital costs and maintenance costs. Locomotive unit cost is estimated at US$1.5 million per
unit and annual maintenance cost is at US$75,000 per year. Total annualized savings are estimated at
Rpl4 billion (US$6.2 million) per year. This saving is assumed to realize gradually over a period of six
years, beginning at the fourth year of the project implementation and reaching the full extent four years
after project completion. A life of 30 years is assumed for locomotives.






-11 7-
Annex 6.1
Pagze I of 3
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Background
I.    The Indonesian railways up until December 31, 1990 was owned and controlled by
the Government of Indonesia. The book value of fixed assets on December 31, 1990 was
Rpl,336 trillion (US$700 million), together with inventories of Rpl24 billion ($65 million)
and the cash and receivable of Rp177 billion ($93 million).
2.    On January 1, 1991, GOI converted the railways from a departmental agency (Perjan,
PJKA) whose income and expenses were treated as part of the state budget to a separate legal
entity as a state corporation (Perum, Perumka). With this change, GOI transferred the
ownership of workshops, depots, telecommunications facilities, motive power and rolling
stock, and related land to Perumka while retaining the ownership of major part of the railway
infrastructure (rails, buildings, signals, terminals, bridges, land crossings and overhead
electric lines). The value of fixed assets in Perumka accounts was reduced by Rp554 billion
($290 million) representing the written down value of track assets which remained with GOT.
Accounting, Budgeting and Auditing
3.    In late 1980s PJKA progressively introduced a new double entry accounting system
(System Acontasi Baru, SAB). The fiscal year was changed from April-March to January-
December. An improved classification of accounts was introduced. The costs are now
analyzed by type of expenses (material, labor and general), by cost center and by operating
function. Staff costs are now being allocated to various activity centers.
4.    Perumka regularly prepares a five-year corporate plan with detailed annual budget.
The most recent corporate plan covers the five-year period of 1995-99.
5.    Perumka accounts are annually audited by the Financial and Development
Supervisory Board of GOI (Badan Rengawas Keerangan dar Pembangunan, BPKP). The
auditors are regarded as independent auditors using generally accepted auditing rules and
standards. The Bank has accepted them for other projects. The same auditors will be used
for the proposed project. The audit reports for Perumka are generally late by nine months.
This does not help the management for taking prompt remedial actions.
Costing
6.    With the help of consultants financed by the Bank's Railway Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2891-IND), a computerized railway traffic costing system was satisfactorily
established, in which the key concept of railway's long-run variable costs was introduced.
Perumka staff was trained in all aspects of the costing as per the Project Completion Report
(No.13914) of January 19, 1995. The costing system is now used for investment analysis
and tariff adjustments. Some improvements are necessary in the following areas:
a) The cost analysis includes only direct and indirect costs but excludes the general
costs. Many of the general cost items are either partially or fully variable with traffic
and should be included in the cost analysis so that tariffs adequately reflect costs;



-118-
Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 3
b) Although the management accounting concept is now being used, its scope and level
should be expanded and improved;
c) The reliability and timeliness of the statistical and financial data need to be
improved. At present there is no direct responsibility assigned to any particular
division of Perumka for collection of required data;
d) Some technical advice is needed in rationalization and identification of non-
remunerative railway services, budgeting, PSO calculation and tariff restructuring.
e) a computerized financial management information system should be set up so that
reliable, relevant reports can be prepared and submitted to the management on time.
A direct computer link between the headquarters and regional offices would
substantially reduce the transmission of information from origin to destination.
Past and Present Financial Performance
7.    The removal of major railway infrastructure from Perumka's accounts has helped
Perumka improve its financial accounts for the following reasons: (i) GOI pays Perumka an
annual contribution toward repairs and maintenance of GOI owned infrastructure; (ii) a
substantial reduction in depreciation and interest charges on infrastructure assets transferred
to GOI; and (iii) all railway revenues are shown in Perumka's accounts. The net income
therefore improved immediately by about Rp8O billion (Rp3O billion from GOI for track
repairs and maintenance and Rp5O billion saved by Perumka for depreciation and interest
charges for track). For Perumka, however, the track maintenance still has a substantial
backlog and there is under-funding by Perumka for maintenance of motive power and rolling
stock.
8.    Perumka's financial statements for 1991-95 are shown in Tables I and 2. An
analysis of key financial items indicates the following:
Traffic Trends. Perumka's traffic has been growing steadily, especially the passenger
traffic on Java (Annex 3.2). The passenger revenue share to total revenues increased
from 51% in 1991 to 62% in 1995.
Inflation Inflation was 7.5% in 1992, 9.2% in 1993, 9.6% in 1994 and 9.0% in 1995.
The cumulative effect was 35.3% from 1991 to 1995.
Revenues and Costs  The average passenger revenues per passenger-kilometer
increased by 43% from 1991 to 1995, with the increases for economy class services
being 26.5% and executive and business class services 60%. The average freight
revenues per ton-kilometer increased by 21.8% over the same period.
9.     Perumka's 1995 revenue and cost analysis indicates that although Perumka's overall
revenues are slightly higher than the operating costs, the revenues from economy class
passenger services cover only 20% to 75% of the corresponding costs, while the revenues for
executive and business class services cover some 150% to 240% of the associated costs.
Consequently, while the economy class passenger services represent some 77% of
Perumka's total passenger traffic in terms of passenger-kilometers, they generate only about
46% of the total passenger revenues. The executive and business class services, on the other
hand, represent only 23% of the total passenger traffic but generate 54% of the total
revenues. This indicates that the economy class tariffs are very low.



-119-
Annex 6.1
Page 3 of 3
10.    With the exception of the Suralaya coal traffic and the fuel traffic to Solo, freight
trains usually fail to recover their operating costs which are grossly understated due to:
(i) reasons given in para. 7. and (ii) the depreciation is understated as it relates only to book
values. The average freight revenue covers 9% to 95% of the costs on various train runs.
11.    Perumka Staff. The total staff (permanent and contracted) has been reduced from
47,000 in 1988 to 41,446 in 1995. The wages and salaries, on the other hand, have increased
due to general as well as specific increases (e.g. special premiums to operating staff,
incentive award to higher productivity and extra emolument to maintenance personnel). As a
result, the overall staff cost nearly doubled from 1991 to 1995 and the labor cost share
increased from 31% of total operating costs in 1991 to 35% in 1995. While the staff costs
have been an extra burden on railway finances, the salary levels are only slightly higher than
the government salary scale and much lower than the private sector.
Financial Forecast
12.   The financial forecast incorporates the proposed investment plan, traffic growth,
tariff adjustments, inflation, policy reforms, and productivity improvements. Assumptions
underlying the financial forecast are described in the attachment 1. Income and funds flow
statements and balance sheets for the period of 1996 - 2002 are given in Tables 3, 4 and 5
13.   It is projected that the operating ratio, incorporating the revaluation of assets in 1998,
will improve from 97% in 1996 to 90% in 2002. The return on revalued net fixed assets will
improve from 2% to 5% for the same period. The internal cash generation will be sufficient
to cover interest and repayments and to contribute toward future investments.  The
Government's net out-flow of funds to Perumka will gradually decrease from a high of Rp.
95 billion in 1998 to Rp. 32 billion in 2000. From 2001, this net out-flow will change to a
net in-flow of Rp. 6 billion in 2001 and Rp. 55 billion in 2002 from Perumka. This indicates
that from 2001, the railway operations will become a source of funds to the Government
14.   The minimum self-financing ratio will be 27% in 1997 but thereafter will gradually
rise to 40% in 2002. The debt service coverage ratio will remain at the acceptable levels of
2.0 to 3.4 during 1997 to 2002. The balance sheet indicates that the current ratio, acid test
ratio and the debt/equity ratio would remain at safe levels.






-121-
Attachment I
Page I of 2
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS AND NOTES UNDERLYING PERUMKA'S FINANCIAL
FORECASTS
1996-2002
A.    General The financial projections are prepared:
I. in current prices using the Bank guidelines and adjusting to prevailing
conditions;
2. incorporating committed policy reforms on compensations for PSO and track
maintenance and track access charges;
3. using preliminary "core" investments plan based on Perumka's 1995 and 1996
corporate plan as well as the traffic growth performance;
4. based on the financing plan indicating loans from World Bank, local and foreign
sources and Government contribution;
5. without capitalizing the interest and commitment charges during construction
period as these payments are relatively small during the project implementation;
6. with 8.7% annual inflation from 1996 to 2002;
7. with 2.5% annual increase in real unit labor cost from 1996 to 2002;
8. with an exchange rate of Rp.2,330 per US$1.0 in 1996 and 6.3%  annual
depreciation from 1996 to 2002; and
9. with risks of foreign exchange rates to be borne by Perumka.
B.    Revenues Revenues are calculated using the following assumptions on traffic and
tariffs:
I.     Traffic Growth:
Traffic Growth %
Year           1996    1997   1998    1999   2000   2001    2002
Passengers
Executive             8.0    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    7.5    7.5
Business              8.0    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    7.5    7.5
Economy               5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Local Economy         5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Jabotabek Commercial   5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Jabotabek Economy     5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Freight Tons
Suralaya Coal         21.7   37.3   20.6    8.7    0.3        2.9    0.3
Other Contract        7.5    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Non-Contract          7.5    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0



-122-
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
2.     Tariff Increases:
Current                    Tariff Growth (%)
Tariffs    1996*   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Passengers             Rp/pkm
Executive               87.3     0.0    0.0    15.0   12.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Business                39.9     0.0    00    15.0   12.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Economy                 15.5     0.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Local Economy           10.5     0.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Jabotabek Commercial    40.3      0.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Jabotabek Economy        7.0      0.0    0.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Freight                Rp/tkm
Suralaya Coal           33.5     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    10.0   12.0
Other Contract          43.7      0.0    5.0    15.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   12.0
Non-Contract            42.6     0.0    5.0    15.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   12.0
*    Tariff increases of 28% for economy passenger services, and 14% for executive and business
passenger services were in effect in April 1996. These are equivalent to increases of 21% and
10.5%, respectively, over the twelve-month period.
C.     Loan Interests For the World Band loan on-lent to Perumka for its own portion of
the project cost, the forecast uses the same lending terms as that of the World Bank loan
(i.e. 7% interest for 20 years with five years of grace and commitment charges of 0.75%
p.a. on undisbursed balance of the loan).
For local loans, interest rates are 20% for 1996 and 1997, 15% for 1998 and 1999,
and 12% for 2000, 2001 and 2002.
D.    Income Tax 10% for net profit of up to Rp. 10 million, 15% for net profit of Rp. 10
to Rp.50 million, and 30% for net profit above Rp.50 million.



-123-
Annex 6.1
Indonesia                                        Table 1
Railway Efficiency Project
Table 1: Perumka's Consolidated Income Statement 1991 - 1995
(Rp Billion) a)
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995
Revenues
Operating Revenues
Passengers                         155      192      254      292      354
Freight                            110      133       153     151       166
Other                                7        2         1       1         2
Government Compensation                22       31       32       32       32
Other Revenues                         30       35       31       32       38
Total Revenues                         324      393       471      508      592
Expenses
Direct Operating Expenses
Personnel                           25       35       43       47        53
Fuel/Power/Lubric                   38       44        56      60        70
Rolling Stock Maintenance           49       70        77      85        94
Rolling Stock Depreciation          20       21        26      32       40
Train Supporting Activities         10       11        16      14        14
Subtotal                           142      181      218      238      271
Indirect Operating Expenses
Infrastructure Maintenance          37       52       51       51       68
Infrastructure Depreciation          1        1        2        5        5
Personnel                           17       21       29       30       37
Accidents                            1         1        1       1         1
Stations & Yards b)                  3       26       28       35        38
Subtotal                            59      101       111     122      149
General Expenses
Staff                               52       46        57       62       69
Administration                      68       60        67       70       80
Depreciation                         5        6         8        9       11
Other                                3        4         7        2        2
Subtotal                           128      116       139      143      162
Total Expenses                         329      398       469      503      582
Operating Income                        (5)      (5)       2        4        10
Extraordinary Income                               1       2        1         2
Taxes
Net Income after Tax                    (5)      (4)       4        5        12
Working Ratio c)                      94%       94%      92%      90%       89%
Operating Ratio d)                    102%     101%     100%      99%       98%
a) For 1991 to 1994 the figures are audited; for 1995 the audit is in process.
b) Including personnel cost since 1992.
c) Operating expenses, less depreciation, divided by operating revenues
d) Operating expenses divided by operating revenues



-124-
Annex 6.1
Table 2
Railway Efficiency Project
Table 2: Perumka's Consolidated Balance Sheet 1991 - 1995
(Rp Billion) a)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits           182.3  211.0  247.1  202.1   188.7
Accounts Receivable          37.4   55.7   72.3  105.9  113.1
Inventories                 110.6  109.1   117.6  163.4  190.4
Subtotal                    330.3  375.8  437.0  471.4  492.2
Fixed Assets
Original Book Value         850.8  976.4  1,250.3  1,415.6 1,679.7
Less: Accum Depreciation    182.1  208.7  242.5  288.3  344.7
Net Book Value              668.7  767.7  1,007.8  1,127.3 1,335.0
OtherAssets                   172.5  190.0  110.4  132.9  117.4
Pension Funds                  42.6   52.0   58.3   63.8   71.8
Total Assets                1,214.1  1,385.5 1,613.5  1,795.4 2,016.4
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Current Liabilities          42.6   77.0   57.9   49.7   60.0
Long-term Debt               74.9  159.2  334.3  503.0  669.0
Pension Obligations          42.6   52.0   58.3   63.8   71.8
Subtotal                    160.1   288.2  450.5  616.5  800.8
Equity
Opening Contribution       1,059.0  1,059.0  1,059.0 1,059.0  1,059.0
Capital from GOI              2.7   50.0  118.0  127.2  151.2
Retained Earnings/Losses      (7.7)  (11.7)  (14.0)   (7.3)    5.4
Subtotal                   1,054.0  1,097.3 1,163.0  1,178.9  1,215.6
Total Assets and Liablities  1,214.1  1,385.5 1,613.5  1,795.4 2,016.4
Current Ratio                   7.8    4.9    7.5    9.5    8.2
Acid Test Ratio                 5.2    3.5    5.5    6.2    5.0
Cash Ratio                      4.3    2.7    4.3    4.1    3.1
Debt/Equity Ratio              6.6%   12.7%   22.3%   29.9%   35.5%



-125-
Annex 6.1
Table 3
Indonesia
Railway Efficiency Project
Table 3: Perumka's Consolidated Income Statement 1996 - 2002
(Rp. Billion I Current Prices)
1996(a)    199        1998      1999      2000       2001       2002
Volume (billion)
Passenger (pass-km)              14,997    15,246    15,916    16,715    17,625    18,540    19,503
Freight (ton-km)                  4,723      5,808     6,412      6,537     6,668      6,805     6,924
Total converted ton-km (1:1)     19,720    21,054    22,327    23,252    24,293    25,345    26,427
Revenue
Passenger                           430       435        509       594        693       804        932
Freight                             189       229        270       292        318       359        412
Other                                46        64         74        84         96       109        125
GOI: Infrastructure Maintenance      32       182        203       225        249       275        305
GOI: PSO Compensation                 0        79         78        75         70        64         55
Total revenue                       696       991      1,134      1,270     1,425      1,611     1,828
Expenditure
Staff cost                          245       251        273       295        319       345        372
Materials                           193       227        254       284        319       357        408
Fuel and energy                      78        78         90       100        111       124        138
Other                               110       121        128       140        154       169        186
Track access charge                   0       170        194       229        267       307        363
Working cost             625        847       939      1,048      1,169     1,302      1,467
Depreciation                         51        63        135       145        156       168        181
Operating Cost           676        910      1,074     1,192      1,325     1,470      1,648
NetOperating Revenues                   20        81         60        78        100       141        180
Interest charges                      4        28         46        66         68        86        105
Net Revenue before Tax                  16        53         14        12         31        55         75
Income tax                            5        16          4         4          9        17         23
Net Revenue after Tax                   12        37          9         8         22        39         53
Distribution of net revenue:
- Div. to GOI (Dev. Fund)    55%      6        20          5         5         12        21         29
- Perumka: - Gen. Reserve  20%        2         7          2         2          4         8         11
- soc. benefits  20%       2          7         2          2         4          8        11
- specific jobs    5%       1         2         0          0         1          2         3
Performance Ratios
- Working ratio (%)                 90%       85%        83%       82%        82%       81%        80%
- Operating ratio (%)               97%       92%        95%       94%        93%       91%        90%
- Return on net fixed assets in use
Net fixed assets        1,373     1,569      3,420     3,543     3,696      3,859     4,027
Av. fixed assets (NFA)    1,348   1,471      3,336     3,481      3,619     3,777      3,943
Return on NFA (%)         2%         6%        2%         2%        3%         4%        5%
(a) 1996 is a revised forecast which differs from Perumka's approved budget
Source - Perumka
September, 1996



-126-
Annex 6.1
Table 4
Indonesia
Railway Efficiency Project
Table 4: Perumka's Consolidated Funds Flow Statement 1996 - 2002
(Rp. Billion / Current Prices)
1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002
Sources of Funds
Internally Generated Net Rev       16        65         56        74        90        124       158
Depreciation                       51        63        135       145       156        168       181
Govern't Equity Contribution        5        15         17         7         1          0         0
World Bank Loan                     0         2          9        14        16          5         0
Foreign Loans                       0         0         10        10        10          0         0
Local Bank Loans                   51       196        169       129       164       208        212
Total Sources                       122       341       396       379        438       505        551
Applications of Funds
Investments                       102       259       303        268       309       331        349
Dividend to Government              6        20          5         5        12         21        29
Perumka use                         3         9          2         2         6         10        13
Debt Service Charges
World Bank Loan Interest          0          0         1         1          3         3          3
World Bank Loan Repayment         0          0         0         0          0         3         4
Other Loan Interest               5         27        45        64         66        82       101
Other Loan Repayment              2         10        22        32        42         54        51
Total Applications                  118       326       378       372        437       505        551
Cash at Beginning of Year         189       193       208        225       232       233        233
Cash from Current Year              4        15         17         7         1          0         0
Cash at End of Year               193       208       225        232       233       233        233
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       10.3       3.4        2.8       2.2       2.2        2.0      2.1
Self-Financing Ratio              28%       27%       42%        39%       39%       36%        40%
Notes: 1. As per Perumka, about Rp 687 billion have been spent during 1991-1995 for rolling stock, stations, etc,
which were funded from foreign loans and Perumka anticipates government paying this.
2. Although the subsidiary loan has been increased from US$19.4 million to US$19.8 million, the change has not been
taken into account due to very small amount.
Source - Perumka
September, 1996



-12 7-
Annex 6.1
Table 5
Indonesia
Railway Efficiency Project
Table 5: Perumka's Consolidated Balance Sheet 1996 - 2002
(Rp. Billion / Current Prices)
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001       2002
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                     200       207       238       231       227        223       220
Receivables               73        79        66        72        78         88       101
Inventories              123       121       123       124       123        120       116
Subtotal                 396       407       427       427       427        431       437
Fixed Assets
Gross Book Values      1,819     2,078      2,380     2,648     2,957     3,288     3,636
Revaluation adjustment                      1,683     1,683     1,683     1,683      1,683
Less: Accum Dep          446       509       644       788       944      1,112     1,293
Net Book Value         1,373     1,569     3,420      3,543     3,696     3,859     4,027
Total Assets                      1,770     1,976     3,847     3,969     4,123     4,289      4,464
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Short Term Debts           2        10        22        32        42         57        55
Payables                  80        85        85        90        90         90        90
Other                     45        45        40        35        30         25        12
Subtotal                 127       140       147       157        162       172       157
Long Term Debts                     49       237       403        524       673       828       986
Equity (incl retained earnings)   1,594     1,599     3,297     3,288     3,288     3,289      3,322
Total Liabilities                 1,770     1,976     3,847     3,969     4,123     4,289      4,464
Current Ratio                       3.1       2.9       2.9       2.7       2.6       2.5        2.8
Acid Test Ratio                     2.2       2.0       2.1       1.9       1.9        1.8       2.0
Cash Ratio                          1.6       1.5       1.6       1.5       1.4        1.3       1.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                   3%       13%       11%        14%       17%       20%       23%
Source - Perumka
September, 1996



-128-
Annex 8.1
INDONESIA
RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Modernization/Capacity Study, Corridor Jakarta - Bandung, Holland Rail Association,
January, 1994.
2. Further Institutional Development of Indonesia's Railway Subsector, CPCS Ltd, September,
1995.
3. Review and Prioritization of the Performance Improvement and Investment Plan for the
Indonesia State Railways, CANAC International Inc, August, 1995.
4. The Jakarta - Bandung Railway Corridor, Analysis of Short and Medium Term
Development Options, Railplan, July 1995.
5. Resettlement Action Plan, Perumka, August 1996.
6. Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, Perumka, August 1996.
7. Aide Memoire of December 1993 Identification Mission
8. Aide Memoire of September 1994 Preparation Mission
9. Aide Memoire of May 1995 Preparation Mission
10. Aide Memoire of February 1996 Preparation Mission
11. Aide Memoire of July 1996 Appraisal Mission



i                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~110~13'
SUMATERA                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
RAILWAY NETWORK
Java                         Sea                                           JAWA
JAICARTA-BANDG CORRDOR IMROVEMENW COMPONENT
A    LOCOMOTIVE UL1T EXCHANGE SYSTEM
nra           i                                                                         kartaek
': ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--,'-----'--- 04TED4T'                                         ,.   'D    fSO SEI:
--~~~~~~~C OCEAN              IWA JAV                         --I 
>~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0-   20                                                                                                         0       6OMaIe
4\-~~~~,  tNDOt4fSIAa             I Purakara           a.
:e                                                                                                                                             M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  1a~ny -.,, a. i. - I  ~~'    11'.g   -a -St--..yb~ .V   ca~ 
fNDIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 27874
UPPINE
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U INIM , 
DR"                ft~~~~~~~~~Pelici Oo.cn
.~~~      ~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .. .\." ....
~~~~~~                     0~~~~~~~~  IR&JAYA i
M0a,O.1n                                  AUSTRAUA
,<    .    5;>   XRantouprapaf   Nv   RE />g, B'
Nias                                                                       Bi,;,'
Java, Sea
INDIAN;  W   B  :   < 9  Panjang            t        O                JAVO  S ea~Plemba  C~ 
OCEAN-.'                                                 itungSawahlunto
INDONESIA                               ><                  8C
RAILWAY NETWORK                            -ajn Enim
SMTRA         "!'.                        
_50  .                      .                  \         \,                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
Tangu Kong
*   SELECTED CmES       j.'       , ;>,'\)
0  NATIONAL CAPITAiL   .       . ;.w:-                    '                            >
--.-.-.   RAILROADS '                 .:"',  .'    ' 
-*- INTERNAIONALBOUNDARIES
O      100     X00    300    400 IULOMETERS  -                        OStbgais~ouote v,
l~~ ~~ ~~ ~~           ~    ~~~~~~           lun  im l.' 
0           100          200          300MIULES
95'                                       100                                        1 03
APRIL 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15646 IND
Type: SAR



