                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31719




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-41060)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                              INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                                  RAILWAY EFFICIENCY PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

  (Exchange Rate Effective As of December 31, 2004)

            Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
              Rp 1 million = US$ 107.65
                 US$ 1.00 = Rp 9,290



                  FISCAL YEAR
            January 1 to    December 31




      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Bank                  The World Bank
BoD                   Board of Directors
BPKP                  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CWR                   Continuous Welded Rail
Daop                  Director of Operations
DGLC                  Directorate General of Land Communications
EIRR                  Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV                  Economic Net Present Value
GOI                   Government of Indonesia
IACC                  Inter Agency Coordination Committee
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IMO                   Infrastructure Maintenance and Operation
JABOTABEK             Greater Jakarta Metropolitan Region
KA                    Type of rail clip fastener
MoC                   Ministry of Communications
MoF                   Ministry of Finance
MoSE                  Ministry of State Enterprises
N.A.                  Not Applicable
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PAP                   Project Affected People
Perjan                Departmental Agency
PERUMKA               Railway State Enterprise
PERSERO               State Owned Limited Liability Company (PT)
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
PLN                   Indonesia's State-Run Electricity Company
PMU                   Project Management Unit
PSO                   Public Service Obligation
PSP                   Private Sector Participation
PT KA                 Railway Persero
REP                   Railway Efficiency Project
REPELITA              Indonesia National Five Year Development Plan

     RTAP                   Railway Technical Assistance Project
     RTF                    Restructuring Task Force
     SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
     TA                     Technical Assistance
     TAC                    Track Access Charges
     UIC                    Union Internationale de Chemins de fer

                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
              Country Director      Andrew Steer, EACIF
               Sector Manager       Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Edward Dotson, EASTR

                                          INDONESIA
                                  Railway Efficiency Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
 6. Sustainability                                                                13
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
 9. Partner Comments                                                              18
 10. Additional Information                                                       30
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             34
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             39
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43
Maps(s) IBRD 27873 and IBRD 27874

Project ID: P004026                                                  Project Name: Railway Efficiency Project
Team Leader: Edward Dotson                                           TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Railway Efficiency Project                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-41060
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Railways (100%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/02/1994                                     Effective: 06/13/1997                06/13/1997
     Appraisal: 06/28/1996                                         MTR: 04/01/2000                  06/30/2001
      Approval: 11/21/1996                                      Closing: 09/30/2002                 12/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/PTKAI/PERUMKA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Acting)
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:             Edward Dotson                                  Joris Van der Ven
ICR Primary Author:             Baher El-Hifnawi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

   The general development objective of the project was to improve the economic efficiency and service
   quality of the Borrower's railway sub-sector. The more specific objectives were: (a) to carry out
   sub-sector policy reform by restructuring the Railway State Enterprise (Perumka), reforming the

   relationship between it and the Government of Indonesia (GOI), and creating the foundations for
   expanded private participation; (b) to rationalize sub-sector capital investments; (c) to improve
   sub-sector management and operations; and (d) to increase the physical capacity of the Jakarta-Bandung
   corridor.

   Assessment of Objectives

   The development objectives reflected GOI's increased focus on the railway sector and its strong desire
   to increase sub-sector efficiency. GOI's commitment to the reforms started in the early nineties and
   resulted in the conversion of the railways from a dependent agency (Perjan) to a more autonomous and
   commercially oriented public corporation (Perumka) in 1991 and the enactment of a new law on
   railways in 1992. During Repelita VI (1994/95 ­ 1998/99), GOI established a set of policies and action
   plans that included strengthening the railway management capacities and systems, modernizing the
   railway operating regulations and encouraging private sector participation (PSP). It established a high
   level Inter Agency Coordination Committee (IACC) and a Restructuring Task Force (RTF) to see the
   reforms through.

   This project built on the Railway Technical Assistance Project-RTAP (1987-1993) and two Private
   Sector Development Loans (1989-90; 1990-91) and its objectives were supported by the 1995-7 CAS
   which called for supporting infrastructure investments to eliminate bottlenecks, improving the regulatory
   framework for private sector participation, increasing operational efficiency and strengthening
   infrastructure sector management. Moreover, prior to the completion of the RTAP, GOI had specifically
   requested for continued Bank support of the plans to develop Indonesia's interurban railways.

   The development and specific objectives were clear. In assessing the links between the specific and
   development objectives, it is clear that the accomplishment of the first three specific objectives would
   improve efficiency and service quality. While the linkages might not appear as obvious in the case of
   the fourth specific objective, increasing the physical capacity on the most heavily trafficked rail route in
   Indonesia would raise the service quality by offering more frequent service. The Jakarta Bandung
   corridor upgrading was considered a "no regrets" investment in as much as parts of the corridor had
   already reached capacity with the remaining sections quickly approaching full capacity, and the fact that
   rail services on the corridor would remain competitive with aviation and road services even after the
   opening of the proposed toll road.

3.2 Revised Objective:

N.A.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had five main components as outlined below (Refer to SAR for specifics):

   1.    Policy reform; Cost: US $4.3 million--This consisted of (a) establishing a mechanism to
   compensate Perumka for its public service obligations (PSO); (b) establishing a mechanism to
   compensate Perumka for infrastructure maintenance and operation (IMO); (c) establishing a system of
   track access charges (TAC); (d) transforming Perumka into a limited liability company (Persero)
   structured along line of business principles, which included the separation of Jabotabek from Java
   Interurban Rail system, a tariff rationalization and exit plan, corporate planning, and asset revaluation;
   and (e) developing a framework and strategy for expanded PSP.



                                                     - 2 -

2.    The Jakarta Bandung Corridor Improvements; Cost: US $121.3 million--This consisted of (a)
a modern centralized traffic control signal system on sections of the line; (b) double tracking 27.7 kms
of the line; (c) remodeling of station trackage for a number of stations; (d) replacing 24 kms of the
existing partly worn out rail which would be relaid on lower tonnage, lower speed lines elsewhere; and
(e) technical assistance (TA) for project management and training of Perumka staff.

3.    Track upgrading and maintenance system; Cost: US $37.5 million--This consisted of (a)
renewal of 100 km of main track; (b) partial restoration of 160 equivalent km of track; and (c)
establishment of a modern track maintenance system on Java; and (d) training and supporting studies. A
criticial component of the maintenance system was to establish a rail reclamation yard for the
preparation of continuous welded (CWR) new and relay rail.

4.    Diesel electric locomotive unit exchange maintenance system on Java Cost; US $15.0
million--This consisted of establishing an "on-time preventative maintenance system with unit
exchange" for diesel electric locomotives to provide ready-for-use components before similar
components are removed from the locomotive for overhaul. This process would shorten locomotive
maintenance downtime and increase its availability for service. The component included a locomotive
workshop and two running maintenance depots and was to provide initial quantities of critical spare
parts, components, consulting services and training.

5.    Strengthening Perumka's management; Cost: US $4.0 million--This component aimed at
developing the institutional capability of the railway in operations and planning focusing on four areas:
(a) bridge maintenance management system; (b) improved signal and train operating regulations and
related training programs; (c) network simulation models used in capital investment planning; and (d)
capacity building to assess long term demand for railway services.

Assessment of Design

The project's objectives and components were clearly linked and reflected the government's priorities for
the rail sector. The design was built largely on the lessons learned from two railway projects
implemented in Indonesia and a study of railway lending by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) of the Bank. Two of these lessons were that railway reforms cannot be carried out piecemeal
and should not only include institutional and operational improvements and tariff revisions but should
also include priority investments in track and rolling stock. Given the reform objectives of the project, its
wide scope and large number of subcomponents, the project was complex. This complexity was
addressed in the designation of the high level IACC, (which was already established by Ministerial
Decree to manage the sub-sectoral reforms) to coordinate and guide implementation. The IACC would
supervise a Restructuring Task Force (RTF) to implement the reform component of the project and a
Project Management Unit (PMU) to handle the other project components. Despite its complexity, the
project was within the implementation capacity of the RTF and PMU who were also to be supported
with adequate TA. The PMU was led by a competent manager who had excelled in the RTAP and had
been involved from the outset in this project's preparation.

Not withstanding the sound design of the project, there appeared to be some overlap among a few of the
project's subcomponents. For example one of the subcomponents of the Jakarta Bandung corridor
improvement was to "replace and modernize operating rules governing train operations to benefit fully
from the introduction of the new signaling system". A subcomponent under institutional development
"development and introduction of improved signal operating regulations" seemed to address to some


                                                   - 3 -

   extent the same issue.

3.4 Revised Components:

   1.    Policy Reform: no change

   2.    Improvements to the Jakarta ­ Bandung Corridor
   In December 1998 and owing to GOI's desire to reduce its borrowing as a result of the Asian financial
   crisis, the Bank and GOI agreed to substitute the electronic signaling system that was to be installed on
   the Jakarta-Bandung corridor with a mechanical system resulting in the cancellation of US $20 million.
   Instead, an electronic signaling system was subsequently implemented with Dutch financing.

   3.    Track Upgrading and Maintenance System
   In September 2002, the rail reclamation yard subcomponent was cancelled due to slow progress (see
   Section 5.1.4).

   4.    Locomotive Exchange System: no change

   5.    Strengthen Perumka's Management
   Financing for subcomponent (b) was provided by other sources and dropped in 1999. Subcomponent
   (d) was cancelled in June 2002 due to long delays in procurement (See Sections 5.2.5 and 5.3.1).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

   The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The timing of the project was right building on the momentum
   of the Railway Technical Assistance Project (RTAP) and the Private Sector Development Loans (as
   mentioned in Section 3.1). The project was in line with GOI's priorities and the Bank's CAS. Its
   development and specific objectives were well conceived and the components were well designed and
   took into account past lessons. The Bank's requirements for identifying and assessing potential
   environmental and social impacts were discussed with both Perumka and its consultants and a
   resettlement plan was prepared by PTKA and later revised based on the Bank's comments. The project
   enjoyed the explicit support and commitment of senior officials in the involved ministries and agencies.
   The risks of such a reform were identified by the Bank team, and it was hoped that with GOI's strong
   commitment and the additional visibility and transparency that the Bank brings would diminish the
   chances of failure. Senior government officials displayed their commitment to the reforms by repeatedly
   emphasizing that the project was a reform project with an investment component and not the other way
   around. The risk of consuming the spare parts required for a sustainable locomotive exchange
   maintenance system was mitigated by the fact that Perumka had identified, and decided to adopt, such a
   maintenance system on its own initiative.

   Nevertheless, the extent of the resistance to the reforms was not anticipated and its impacts had not been
   "socialized" among the key stakeholders (see Section 5.2.1). With the benefit of hindsight it would have
   been more realistic to have a longer tenure on the loan for the reform component. Even if the financial
   crisis and the political changes in Indonesia had not taken place, key reforms of this nature that will
   always face resistance require institutional and behavioral changes and are likely to extend beyond the
   tenure of one or two administrations in the supervising ministries requiring a longer time to implement.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

   The main objectives of improving economic efficiency and service quality of railway sub-sector were not
   satisfactorily met, although the physical improvements in the Jakarta-Bandung corridor, the moderate
   success of the locomotive exchange maintenance system and some capacity building have contributed to
   a small degree toward achieving these objectives as described below.

   (a) Sub-sector policy reform: Unsatisfactory
   The key components of the reform were not undertaken (see Section 4.2.1). Consequently, the
   objectives of the reform were not met.

   (b) Rationalization of sub-sector capital investments: Unsatisfactory.
   This objective was to be accomplished primarily by refining and operationalizing network simulation
   models to be used to evaluate capacity expansion proposals for different corridors in the country. The
   models are not being used (see Section 4.2.5). A PTKA staff member has recently completed graduate
   studies abroad on their use and PTKA expects to start using them in the future.

   (c) Improvement of sub-sector management and operations: Unsatisfactory.
   A major objective was improving maintenance operations by investing in a rail reclamation yard to
   prepare continuous welded (CWR) new and relay rail and establish a locomotive exchange maintenance
   system. While the locomotive maintenance system was moderately successful, the rail reclamation yard
   was never established. Some institutional capacity was built in developing and employing bridge
   maintenance management systems. Attempts to estimate long term demand and sub-sector needs and to
   improve the investment and operation planning were not successful (see Section 4.2.5).

   (d) Increasing the physical capacity of the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor: Moderately
   Unsatisfactory.
   Although the physical improvements to this corridor increased capacity as envisioned, the economic rate
   of return was negative due to a drop in demand following the Asian crisis (see Sections 4.3.1). As such
   the objective cannot be rated satisfactory despite the accomplishments. Trains running during peak
   periods doubled (see Annex 1, number 5) between 1995 and 2003 and the rate of accidents declined as
   expected due to the reduction in the number of crossing points after double-tracking (actual rates are not
   available). Even though passenger journey times were not reduced as planned but in fact they increased
   due to corrective works on the tracks to remedy the damage created by land slides between Sukatani and
   Ciganea, the delays would have been even longer had it not been for the improvements.

4.2 Outputs by components:

   1.    Policy Reform--Rating: Unsatisfactory
   On the positive side, Permuka was converted to a Persero albeit after an 18 month delay, several studies
   were prepared on the necessary restructuring, the Jabotabek suburban railway was separated from the
   Java interurban rail system, and a Joint Decree of Bappenas, MoF and MoC and its implementing
   regulations were issued to establish the legal basis for the implementation of the PSO, IMO, and TAC.
   Nevertheless, the newly established Persero was not reorganized along "line of business" principles and
   the PSO, IMO, and TAC were never agreed to and implemented. The company's assets were not
   revalued, tariff rationalization plans were not carried out and a framework for PSP was never adopted.




                                                     - 5 -

2.    Jakarta-Bandung Corridor Improvements-- Rating: Satisfactory
The key subcomponents (except for the electronic signaling system that was cancelled-see Section 3.4.2)
were completed. Despite significant procurement delays, smaller than planned windows of work time
available to contractors, a seven-month loan disbursement suspension, and the several land slips and
slides that occurred between Sukatani and Ciganea, 28 kms of double tracking were laid, 24 kms of the
existing partly worn out rail were replaced by new rail with the old rail relaid on lower-tonnage
lower-speed lines, 14 stations were remodeled, 8 bridges and 6 box culverts were constructed and the
supporting TA provided. The windows of time available to contractors to work on the double tracking
of the main corridor were shorter than planned due to the collapse of a 100 year old tunnel on the
alternative route though Bogor. Deforestation in 2000 above the portal at the Jakarta end resulted in a
massive landslide that blocked the tunnel entrance. Corrective works were aborted when heavy rains
resulted in the collapse of the tunnel and rendered the alternative track that had been upgraded under the
project unfit to carry the container traffic to Bandung. This tunnel has not been reopened.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement: The implementation of land acquisition for double tracking
construction started in 1997 and was initially completed in 1999. Due to the required corrective works,
some additional land acquisition took place in 2001-2. There were 398 households affected by the
project: 58 land owners and 340 households who occupied Perumka/PTKA's land. Implementation was
satisfactory (see Section 7.6).

3.    Modern Track Maintenance System--Rating: Unsatisfactory.
While this component provided a 100 km of new UIC 54 rail including concrete sleepers and fastenings
for the main track, it failed to provide a track maintenance system in Java due to the lengthy delays in
procuring the rail reclamation yard which was ultimately cancelled. As the maintenance system was not
established, some supporting components such as the partial restoration of 160 equivalent km of track
were not implemented.

4.    Locomotive Exchange Maintenance System--Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This component was implemented with few delays and was rated highly satisfactory at the time of loan
closing (loan closing for this component was September 2003--see Section 5.4). The envisioned
maintenance system was successfully developed. It created pools of critical components to be supplied
to the workshop and depots to replace worn out and damaged components. Facilities were established in
Bandung and Yogyakarta and were operational by mid 2002. However, in April 2005, PTKA informed
the ICR mission that some of the machines had broken down and that the repair process was delayed due
to inadequate training of staff. The high voltage connection that was required for Yogyakarta had not
been made and work had to be planned in stages to utilize the limited power supply available. A small
percentage of spare parts (3%) was consumed due to budgetary constraints which was in turn partly a
result of PTKA's not receiving fair compensation for the PSO and IMO. (The success of the
maintenance system required that the spare parts not be used for consumption but only to replace a
damaged part until it was repaired.) Despite these shortcomings, the maintenance system had resulted in
some efficiency. A particularly good case is the reduction in the washing time of a locomotive gear box
from 3 days to 3 hours (see Section 9.1.3.e). Nevertheless, due to the limitations mentioned above, the
component was rated moderately satisfactory.

5.    Strengthen Perumka's Management--Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Of the three remaining subcomponents (subcomponent (b) was dropped--see Section 3.4e) that were to
be implemented, component (d), the development of the railway's capability for assessing the long term
demand for railway services was cancelled due to long delays in procurement; component (a), the bridge
maintenance program was developed and is being utilized; and component (c), an updated version of the


                                                   - 6 -

   network simulation planning model was procured and the necessary training provided. The ICR mission
   was informed, however, that the network simulation model was no longer being used. PTKA attributed
   this to the large data requirements and the high cost of securing the data but was hopeful on using the
   model in the near future (see Section 4.1.b)

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

   The Economic Net Present Value (ENPV) and Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) were estimated
   in the SAR for three of the project's components: the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor, the track maintenance
   system and the locomotive exchange maintenance system. The table below shows the original as well as
   the re-estimated, ENPVs for the three components.

                               Economic Net Present Value in SAR and ICR

                                                     ENPV                              ENPV
    Project Component                           (1996 RP billion)                 (1996 RP billion)
                                                [SAR Estimate]                     [ICR Estimate]
    Jakarta ­ Bandung Corridor                          81                               (77)
    Track Maintenance System                           228                              Zero
    Locomotive Exchange                                 39                               21
    Maintenance System



   1. The Jakarta Bandung Corridor

   In the original estimation, this component had an ENPV of 81 billion Rupiah in 1996 prices and an
   EIRR of 15%. When re-estimated for the ICR, the economic returns were negative with an ENPV of
   minus 77 billion Rupiah (in 1996 prices). The main economic benefit of this corridor upgradation is the
   time and vehicle operating cost savings. There are also additional benefits due to the reduction in
   accident rates and pollution. All benefits are a direct function of the number of car users who switch to
   rail as a result of the project. In the original estimation, rail passenger traffic was projected to grow at
   8% per annum and the full capacity of the railway corridor was projected to be reached by 2003.
   Consequently from 2004 on any incremental traffic could only be accommodated by road. However,
   and largely influenced by the 1997 Asian crisis, the maximum capacity has not been reached yet and is
   projected to be reached by 2008 and PTKA has revised annual passenger growth projections down from
   8% to about 5%. As a result, the projected number of executive and business class passengers in 2020
   dropped from 11.1 million to 7.2 million. The 8% growth rate projected by the Bank was plausible
   given that the annual growth rate between 1987 and 1995 was 9.4%. Another contributing factor to the
   drop in the economic benefits is the sharp decline in container traffic from 435 thousand tons in year
   2002 to about 171 thousand tons in 2003 (largely due to a 130% tariff increase). At present, there is
   plenty of capacity for container movements on the rail corridor and achieving the benefits of the
   projected increase in container traffic through 2020 would not have required the upgradation. See Annex
   3 for details.

   2. The Track Maintenance System

   The focus in the estimation of the economic benefits was the establishment of the maintenance system,
   an objective that did not materialize (see Section 4.2.3). Under these component, the project also



                                                        - 7 -

   supplied rail parts. The Bank's assessment was that these parts would be the minimum necessary and
   would be carried out with or without the project. Consequently, there is no difference between the
   "without the project" case, typically known as the base case and the project case and the ENPV is zero
   for both components. Potential savings from procurement under ICB or an increase in cost incurred in
   preparing, tendering, and evaluating bids could have resulted in marginal positive or negative impacts.

    3. The Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System

    The objective of the new system was to increase maintenance efficiency and to reduce the down time of
    locomotives consequently increasing their availability and productivity. The SAR estimated that a) on
    time maintenance rather than maintenance at time of component failure, b) the use of readily available
    exchange components and c) the reduction in the frequency of locomotive maintenance would result in
    savings equivalent to adding 10, 14 and 4 locomotives respectively. These benefits were assumed to be
    generated gradually over a 6 year period after which they would remain constant. The ENPV and
    EIRR for the maintenance system were estimated in the SAR at 39 billion 1996 Rupiahs and 26.3%
    respectively.

    The ENPV and the EIRR estimated for the ICR were 21 billion 1996 Rupiah and 18.5% respectively.
    The difference is due to an increase in cost of about 11.9 billion 1996 Rupiah (see Section 5.4) and a
    reduction in benefits. The savings generated from on time maintenance and the reduction in scheduled
    maintenance were smaller than those projected in the SAR. The gross benefits expressed as additional
    locomotives dropped from 28 in the SAR to 24 in the ICR. See Annex 3 for details.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

   1. Financial Performance of PTKA

   Most of the key reforms that would have positively impacted the financial performance of PTKA were
   not undertaken. Consequently, any changes in the company's financial performance cannot be attributed
   to the project. Also, the financial indicators listed in Annex 1 should be interpreted with caution. The
   low return on net assets of 0.15% compared to a target of about 5% would have been even lower if
   assets were revalued as necessary. The debt coverage ratios appear reasonable but are not predicated on
   the proper bases as the values on financial statements do not reflect actual costs incurred.

   2.   The Jakarta Bandung Corridor

   The financial returns for this component as estimated in the SAR are marginally negative at a discount
   rate of 12% (FNPV of minus 10 billion 1996 Rupiah) and an FIRR of 11.7%. However, these variables
   serve as descriptive statistics and not decision criteria as it was clear that the project's investments in the
   corridor were not going to be financed by the private sector. From financial and fiscal perspectives, the
   important question is with respect to the financial sustainability of the investments in the corridor
   (availability of resources for maintenance and operation) but this is necessarily linked to the overall
   financial performance and reforms of PTKA (see Section 4.4.1). This issue is further discussed in
   Section 6.1 on sustainability.

   To obtain a general sense of how the financial returns have changed after implementation, a
   re-estimation using price and passenger growth projections provided by PTKA was carried out. It shows
   a sharp decline in the financial returns to the investment. The sharp drop is due to two main reasons:
   lower traffic volumes and tariffs. The present value of the incremental revenues as projected in the SAR



                                                       - 8 -

   was 375 billion 2001 Rupiahs compared to 190 billion 2001 Rupiahs as re-estimated in the ICR. The
   downward revision of the projected demand and the slow growth over the past few years is discussed in
   Section 4.3.1 above. With respect to projected tariff rates, real prices were held constant throughout the
   analysis period in the estimation in the SAR. However, real tariffs declined under PTKA's projections.
   Adjustment of the nominal tariffs projected by PTKA through 2021 for business and executive classes
   lags well behind an assumed average annual inflation rate of 6%. By 2021, the projected tariff for the
   executive service will be less than 60% of its real value in 2002. Further contributing to the negative
   financial returns, although to a smaller degree, is the fact that container traffic dropped significantly in
   2003 and has not recovered (see Section 4.3.1).

   It is important to keep in mind that the financial analysis conducted for this project does not address the
   commercial viability of the entire corridor, but rather the financial return on a particular investment to
   upgrade the corridor.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   Despite the project's failure to meet its development objectives, its institutional development impact is
   substantial. Knowledge and skills were acquired throughout the design and implementation phases of
   the different project components. The TA helped build capacity in the use of bridge maintenance
   programs and network simulation models for planning (even if these models are not being used at
   present). More importantly, the failed reforms have increased the awareness of PTKA's board and
   staff, the IACC and senior government officials of the main issues involved in restructuring, as well as
   the different alternatives and approaches. These are critical prerequisites for any successful reform and
   cannot be accomplished in a short time. Whether the Bank is involved in other railway projects in
   Indonesia that support the ongoing reform efforts to their fruition or PTKA carries out the reforms
   without the Bank's assistance, the project has "planted the seed" for the reforms. The long delays in the
   procurement starting from preparing terms of reference, to establishing a decision process have spurred
   the PMU and PIUs to streamline and simplify procurement processes. One recommendation made by a
   PTKA director during the ICR mission was for MoC and the Bank to agree on a standard form of
   contract during preparation to shorten the lengthy procurement process and avoid unnecessary delays.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   Four factors outside of the Government's control contributed to the project's shortcomings.

   1. The Asian financial crisis

   The crisis affected the project in several interrelated ways:

   (a) The crisis shifted the attention of senior and key government officials to social safety nets and
   poverty alleviation policies. As Perumka/PTKA was functioning and did not seem in need of immediate
   attention, the reforms became less of a priority and the strong commitment that was enjoyed at the outset
   of the project weakened.

   (b) The fiscal impacts of the crisis faced by GOI were massive. Debt service, fuel subsidies and
   restructuring of PLN placed huge burdens on the budget. The railways would continue to operate even
   if the PSO and IMO payments were not made in full while other payments were much harder to defer.



                                                      - 9 -

   Consequently, MoF did not acknowledge, or make, the estimated payments.

   (c) The sharp depreciation of the Rupiah created uncertainty, at least in the short run, with respect to
   the political acceptability as well as the financial viability of a tariff rationalization plan, particularly not
   knowing the impact of large tariff increases on ridership.

   2. Change in political environment and succession of leaders

   During the project, there were 4 presidential changes and many changes in the senior leadership and
   board of Perumka/PTKA, MoC, the IACC and RTF. During one 6 month period in 2001, there was
   effectively no IACC to guide implementation. (Some of the changes were within the control of the
   government as discussed in Section 5.2 below.) At the very least these changes disrupted continuity as
   sometimes the majority of the new appointees were not fully aware of the project and had to be briefed
   in depth. In one case, the resignation of the entire board of PTKA was in response to a train accident
   that had resulted in the loss of lives. Consequently, the resolution of safety issues took precedence by
   the new board over anything else.

   3. Land slides/slips in the Jakarta Bandung Corridor

   The extension of the project's closing date was due primarily to geological conditions that caused
   numerous landslides and landslips in the Jakarta Bandung Corridor, specifically in the area between
   Sukatani and Ciganea (Km 100 to Km 104). A major landslide in the mid 1970s revealed the area's
   vulnerability. This section of the corridor requires continuous monitoring and maintenance as there are
   significant geological differences within this relatively small area. It was essential to fix these problems
   so that the rail line could continue to operate. Consequently the closing date was extended twice for this
   purpose for a total of 15 months to allow for the completion of the corrective works.

   4. Failure of the first round of tendering for the railway reclamation subcomponent

   Upon the Bank's recommendation, bidding for the railway reclamation subcomponent, the core of the
   track maintenance management program, was split into three packages: the railway reclamation facility,
   rail welding machines, and supervision and training. This was proposed to increase participation and
   competition for the different packages. However, no bids were submitted for the first package and those
   received for the other two were non-responsive. The three packages ultimately had to be combined into
   a single responsibility contract. While the package could still have been executed had it not been for the
   lengthy procurement delays (see Sections 5.2.5 and 5.3.1), the time lost in the first round of tendering
   contributed to the cancellation of this subcomponent.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

   1. Resistance to reforms

   Resistance to the reforms within some ministries and agencies contributed to a large extent to the
   suspension of loan disbursements and later downgrading of project implementation and achievement of
   development objectives to unsatisfactory status (see Section 7.7).

        (a) MoF was supportive from the beginning but never delegated high level officials to attend
        meetings which delayed decisions and made the resolution of differences more difficult. While MoF
        agreed in principle to the reforms and the budgetary mechanisms proposed by PTKA



                                                      - 10 -

     (PSO/IMO/TAC), MoF did not make available the appropriate amount of funds as estimated by
     PTKA according to the Joint Decree and its implementing regulations but paid only a "balancing"
     amount that was a small fraction of what had been estimated. The resistance was in large part due
     to scarce public funds (discussed in Section 5.1.b) and possibly due to the fact that PTKA's
     financial statements showed profits, although these were primarily a result of low depreciation
     values. Had these values been revised upwards as per the project's plans, it would have been clear
     that PTKA did not have the resources to replace its rolling stock, let alone finance expansion and
     upgrading.

     (b) At times MoC showed less than full commitment. Law 13 of 1992 on the railways required 12
     Ministerial Decrees for its complete implementation, many of which were necessary for the
     satisfactory progress of the project. Nine years later, as of June 2001, only five had been issued
     with an additional one pending.

     (c) The envisioned reforms were to leave DGLC/MOC primarily with regulatory responsibilities
     with PTKA carrying out maintenance and upgradation works and paying compensation for the use
     of the tracks. As this represented a change from the existing paradigm where DGLC also carried
     out upgradation works, there was some resistance to the reforms within DGLC.

     (d) The resistance within PTKA was stronger than anticipated. Perumka was organized along
     regional/geographical lines where Directors of Operations (Daops) were responsible for all business
     and technical aspects of running the railway within their respective regions. As the reorganization
     of PTKA along line-of-business principles would reduce the responsibilities of many of the Daops,
     they resisted the reforms.

2. Intermodal Imbalance

The financial viability of the rail sector and its ability to compete on an equal footing with the road
sector required that road users pay a charge for using the roads along the same principles of PTKA's
paying a track access charge for using rail. Indeed, GOI's 1996 "Statement of Goals and Policies" for
the sub-sector envisaged track access charges being introduced in concert with road user charges. The
lack of implementation of road user charges made the financial viability of PTKA more difficult. To
compensate, tariffs needed to be raised, but charging the tariff rates necessary for commercial viability
would have shifted ridership to the subsidized road sector.

3. Change in the shareholder responsibility of PTKA

At preparation, MoC was the policymaker, regulator, shareholder representative for Perumka and owner
of the infrastructure. The establishment of the Ministry of State Enterprises (MoSE) in 1998 meant that
Perumka would fall under its purview and not that of MoC. Frequent changes of shareholding
responsibility for PTKA delayed the reform process. It was not clear which responsibilities would
remain with MoC and which would move to MoSE. This issue was ultimately resolved by a
Presidential Decree to keep Perumka under MoC. However, shortly after its conversion in July 1999,
PTKA was shifted from MoC to MoSE in December of the same year then back to MoC in July 2000
and once again back to MoSE in November 2001. MoSE's main focus was to deal with state
enterprises that were imposing large burdens on the budget and so PTKA was not a priority. Even with
full commitment, these changes greatly inhibited the reform process as the new supervising ministry had
to be briefed each time on the project's reforms before sanctioning them.




                                                    - 11 -

   4. Flaws in the decision making processes affected project progress and resulted in lengthy delays

       (a) The instruction by DGLC to use KA clip rail fasteners instead of the specified Pandrol clips
       without consulting the Bank, despite the fact that KA clips had not been tested in accordance with
       accepted international standards and did not provide any cost savings. The Bank indicated that it
       would entertain the idea of testing the KA clips on side tracks but the contractor proceeded to order
       large numbers of the clip and installed some of them on the main line. These were later replaced by
       Pandrol clips.

       (b) Delays in approving concrete sleepers on curves to replace steel sleepers that had manufacturing
       problems and that had not been inspected at point of of manufacture and later rejected on delivery
       for quality reasons.

       (c) The decision to build an Austrian-financed bridge on the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor without an
       overall analysis of the benefits of such bridge.

       (d) In a conscious effort to reduce its borrowing, GOI decided to cancel the electronic signaling
       component, which was subsequently financed by the Netherlands without consulting the Bank. This
       complicated implementation and resulted in the Bank's shifting construction priorities on the Jakarta
       Bandung corridor to coordinate signal commissioning with station remodeling. Coordination was in
       general satisfactory but there were safety concerns during implementation.

   5. Complex GOI procurement rules

   These generally slowed implementation (also see Section 5.3.1 below). Civil works were delayed due to
   excessive micromanagement, with decisions taken by the project group needing to be confirmed by
   PTKA and then ratified by DGLC. There was a procurement committee for the project that included
   different institutions which sometimes had different opinions. Ambiguities in the interpretation of
   different government regulations (Kepres 6/99, Kepres 16/94 and MoC implementing regulation KM
   48/95) also contributed to confusion and delays.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   1. Delays in implementation
   (Delays resulting from the complexity of the procurement rules are discussed above in Section 5.2.5)
   Considerable, often unwarranted, delays in preparing terms of reference and evaluating bids played a
   large role in the cancellation of the key subcomponent of the track maintenance management component
   (the rail reclamation yard-see Section 5.1.4) and the institutional development subcomponent on long
   term demand estimation. In at least one instance, the validity of the proposals expired before they could
   be evaluated. Other examples include contract signature that was delayed for two months despite
   completion of evaluation (the UIC 54 rail, turn-outs and steel sleepers) and a delay of about one month
   in the start of the evaluation of submitted bids for supervision of the Jakarta-Bandung corridor.

   2. Implementation problems due to inadequate monitoring
   For example, a Bank mission found a construction site for double tracking works at Sukatani to be in
   poor condition for lack of temporary drainage and no clearly set out survey pegs raising safety concerns.
   The equipment at the site was also insufficient to carry out the contract within the specified time.

5.4 Costs and financing:



                                                     - 12 -

   Several subcomponents were canceled and the loan agreement was amended 4 times and the closing date
   was extended for a total of 27 months to December 30, 2004. The first amendment, effective August
   1998, cancelled US $20 million and changed the loan reallocations among the different categories while
   increasing the share financed by the Bank for some categories. The second amendment extended the
   closing date by one year to September 30, 2003 and cancelled an additional amount of US $27.325
   million as of September 24, 2002 while also changing some loan reallocations. The third and fourth
   amendments extended the closing dates by 12 and 3 months respectively to allow for completion of the
   corrective works on the double tracking between Ciganea and Sukatani on the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor
   component only. Land slips and slides that had occurred in that section necessitated the corrective
   works (see Section 5.1.3). The amendments also included some reallocation in the loan categories to
   allow for the financing of the corrective works in that section. Other than the civil works for the
   Ciganea Sukatani section and associated TA, the closing date for all other project components was
   September 30, 2003.

   The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US $207.3 million of which the Bank, the
   Government of Australia and GOI/Perumka were to finance US $107.4 million (US $105 million from
   the REP loan, and US $2.4 million from Loans 3385 IND and 3913 IND), US $56 million and US
   $43.9 million respectively. (See Annex 2 for details.) There are however descrepencies in the sources of
   finance as presented in the SAR. While Table 4.2 shows the contribution of GOI/Perumka and the
   Government of Australia at US $43.9 million and US $56.0 million respectively; Table 4.3 shows them
   at US $37.8 million and US $62.2 million respectively. The total actual project cost is estimated at US
   $130.9 million financed as follows: US $57.6 million by the Bank, US $55.2 million by the Government
   of Australia, US $13.0 million by the Government of the Netherlands and US $5.2 million by
   GOI/Perumka.

   Expenditures on the policy reform and institutional development components as a percentage of the
   estimates at appraisal were the lowest at 4% and 21.5% respectively due to the lack of progress on the
   reform and the cancellation of subcomponents (see the first table of Annex 2). IBRD financing of the
   Jakarta Bandung civil works was US $15.5 million compared to an allocated amount of US $22.8
   million in the December 99 Amendment, resulting in about US $8 million in savings. The small
   percentage of actual expenditures on the track maintenance component was mainly due to the
   cancellation of the rail reclamation yard and related works; while the overexpenditure on the locomotive
   exchange unit maintenance system was due to the procurment of additional components that were
   required.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   As the single rating given to the whole project (unlikely) does not cover specific project components,
   their sustainability is discussed below:

   (a) The sustainability of the physical improvements (stations remodeling and double tracking) on the
   Jakarta Bandung Corridor is rated as likely. Even though the project's investment has proved not to be
   financially or economically viable (see Sections 4.3 and 4.4), this corridor remains the most heavily
   trafficked one in Indonesia and is the most commercially viable line that PTKA operates. It should also
   be noted that the analysis covered the project's investments in the corridor not its overall commercial
   viability. The viability of the corridor is enhanced by the fact that plans to build a toll road were delayed



                                                     - 13 -

   as a result of the Asian financial crisis (one lane only was completed in April 2005 ahead of the
   Asia-Africa meeting that took place in Bandung). At present, trip time by rail is usually around 2.5-3.0
   hours compared to about 4-5 hours by car on the untolled road. Nevertheless, the budgetary
   mechanisms that would have assured the allocation of sufficient funds for the maintenance of the tracks
   have never been agreed to by MoF, and PTKA continues to receive a small fraction of what has been
   estimated following the Joint Decree on the budgetary mechanisms and its implementing regulations.
   Consequently, the likely maintenance of the route will depend on the availability of funds and competing
   priorities.

   (b) The sustainability of the locomotive exchange maintenance system is rated as likely. While the
   system has to some extent faltered since its successful completion, only 3% of the parts have been
   consumed despite budgetary constraints; and machines that have broken down are being repaired. This,
   together with the fact that Perumka had planned to develop this maintenance system on its own
   initiative, would indicate that the system ranks high on the company's priority list.

   (c) The institutional subcomponent on network simulation modeling proved to be unsustainable. (see
   Section 4.2.5).

   (d) Other project components were largely unsuccessful.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


   PMU and PIU members are PTKA staff and so the transition from the project to regular operations has
   taken place with no disruption. Members of the RTF within PTKA continue to work on the
   restructuring despite the closing of the loan. There is a system in place for collecting the performance
   indicators on the available capacity and utilization during peak hour on the Jakarta Bandung Corridor
   and on locomotive availability (see Annex 1).


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

   The bank's performance for this stage was satisfactory. The assessment of objectives and design in
   Sections 3.1 and 3.3 respectively and Section 3.5 on the "quality at entry" explain that the project was
   well conceived and designed, and how the implementation arrangements were set up to deal with the
   complexity of this project. The project was prepared with the active participation of the Borrower and
   complied with all relevant safeguard policies. Key risks were identified; and the preparation team
   members, complemented by consultants, covered the different areas of expertise required for the project
   (see Annex 4).

   The economic analysis of the physical improvements proved their viability. There was however some
   arbitrariness in the appraisal of the Jakarta Bandung corridor improvements. Because a section on the
   corridor was common to more than one route in Java, the total cost of the corridor improvements was
   reduced by a fraction and only the benefits specific to the corridor were included. A better approach
   would have been to account for the benefits to all passenger networks and freight trains (even those
   outside the corridor) and the total costs of improvement. Given that increasing safety on the Jakarta
   Bandung corridor was one of the objectives of the corridor component, the performance indicators could



                                                      - 14 -

   have included one or two indicators on accidents. Finally, the slight descrepancy in the sources of the
   project's financing as presented in the SAR (see Section 5.4) could have been easily avoided.

7.2 Supervision:

   The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. The project had three task managers but
   continuity was maintained by the second task manager who remained as a Bank consultant and was
   heavily involved through loan closing. The Bank's Transport Sector Coordinator, based in Jakarta,
   supervised the reform aspects of the project and played a major role in its design and preparation. He
   was very familiar with Indonesian economic and political circumstances and had also worked on the
   earlier RTAP. The Project's second task manager, who supervised physical improvements, was also
   based in Indonesia and a key member of the project team from the beginning. Consequently, both were
   very accessible, provided key inputs and tight follow up. In addition, both were well respected by
   PTKA who updates the Bank on the performance of the physical improvements despite loan closing and
   informally seeks their advice on other matters. Missions included a balanced mix of the necessary
   expertise (see Annex 4). During Fiscal Year 2004, twelve site visits were carried out by the Bank.
   These were not formal missions but this approach was appropriate given that as of September 2003 only
   one component was to be held open to complete the corrective works resulting from the landslides.

   The Bank team provided constructive advice to the problems that plagued the project and organized
   thematic supervision missions to deal with safeguard and fiduciary issues. Despite tight follow up and
   supervision, there were a few instances where the Bank was not kept abreast of all project-related
   develpments but nevertheless showed considerable flexibility. One example was in rearranging
   implementation priorities on the Jakarta Bandung corridor to coordinate with the implementation of the
   Dutch financed signaling system. Another one was granting an approval on an exceptional basis to
   allow for the use of the untested KA railway clips on some secondary rail lines even though the Bank
   was never consulted on their procurement. The Bank also showed understanding in extending the loan
   closing date 15 months to carry out the corrective works on the Jakarta Bandung corridor that had
   resulted from the land slides and slips.

   The Bank was firm on the key issues and correctly suspended loan disbursements less than 18 months
   after effectiveness due to failure to abide by important loan covenants regarding the reform. This
   demonstrated the Bank's seriousness about supporting the reform process and trying to secure the
   utmost support from GOI. The Bank displayed flexibility again in lifting the suspension despite the fact
   that not all the covenants that had resulted in the suspension had been met. Nonetheless, the key
   covenant regarding the conversion of Perumka to a Persero status had taken place following a
   Presidential Decree.

   There were a few shortcomings with respect to the supervision of the locomotive exchange maintenance
   system. While the system was installed and rated highly satisfactory, training had not been fully
   completed and the installation of the high voltage connection to the Yogyakarta workshop had not been
   made (see Section 4.2.4). The weakness in the Bank's supervision in this regard is reflected in not
   pursuing the matter to closure and secondly in the highly satisfactory rating despite these pending issues.

   The Bank could have also given some consideration to restructuring the reform component in light of the
   major changes in the political, financial and economic landscape in Indonesia. Realizing the change in
   the government's priorities and the reluctance of the private sector to be involved at that time,
   particularly in long term investments, could have warranted a formal reduction in the scope of, or a
   longer implementation schedule for, the reforms.



                                                      - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

   The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

   The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. GOI's commitment to the reforms at
   the beginning was strong and evident in the attendance of project meetings by 3 high level (Echelon 1)
   staff (two Secretaries General from MoC and DGLC and one Deputy Chairman from Bappenas) to
   reinforce their commitment. The Borrower worked closely with the Bank and preparation consultants to
   define the project. Several of the studies required for the project had already been completed by
   MoC/DGLC prior to the start of the project. GOI's commitment to move fast on the reforms was
   demonstrated in its request that the management consultancy assistance for the development and
   implementation of the reforms be initiated with financing from the ongoing RTAP. The PMU and PIUs
   were staffed with adequate numbers of full time staff at loan effectiveness. The preparation of a
   Resettlement Action Plan according to Bank's policy took place in a timely manner. With the benefit of
   hindsight, PTKA believed that better geological surveys of the Sukatani-Ciganea section of the
   Jakarta-Bandung corridor could have helped in identifying vulnerable areas and carrying out the
   necessary corrective works earlier.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

   The Government's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. Physical improvements
   were delayed due to complex procurement and sometimes flawed decision making processes and
   deadlines for key actions on reforms were rarely met (see Section 5.2). These resulted in the suspension
   of the loan for 7 months (see Section 7.2) and for unsatisfactory project ratings on implementation and
   achievement of development objectives for most of its life.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

   The implementing agency's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The IACC adequately
   guided implementation with the RTF and the PMU reporting to it. The RTF was in charge of the reform
   component and the PMU of all the other components, and each generally carried out its responsibilities
   satisfactorily. The resistance and delays that resulted were largely due to the government and not the
   RTF and PMU. The RTF, for example, continued to prepare PSO/IMO/TAC proposals, as mandated,
   despite their not been accepted by MoF. With a few exceptions, the PMU's performance on financial
   management was satisfactory. Progress reports were furnished to the Bank in a timely manner,
   progressively improved in identifying issues and proposing solutions, although alerting the Bank to
   potential delays was not always satisfactory. Of the few issues that were brought to the PMU's
   attention were the discrepancy between expenditures reported to DGLC and the Bank, and the need to
   better correlate payments with supporting documents for easier management and audit. The PMU was
   also not always proactive in providing updates on performance indicators.

   Despite significant delays, the quality of completed work on the Jakarta Bandung corridor was good.
   This not withstanding, there were a few incidents where the performance of the PMU could have
   improved (see Section 5.3).



                                                     - 16 -

   The implementation of land acquisition and resettlement on this project is considered satisfactory. No
   significant problems arose during implementation. Both land owners and those who occupied
   Perumka's land got fair compensation. When PAPs were interviewed people, they expressed their
   satisfaction with the compensation rate and timeliness of receiving compensation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

   Despite a satisfactory performance in preparation, the Borrower's overall performance was
   unsatisfactory. Development objectives were not achieved. The sectoral reforms fell very short, and the
   important track maintenance management system is not in operation. Project implementation and
   financial performance were often rated unsatisfactory. Lack of progress on the reforms led to the
   suspension of the loan for a seven month period between December 1998 and July 1999. Eighteen
   months after lifting the suspension, implementation was downgraded to unsatisfactory where it remained
   for the rest of the project (with the exception of one conditionally satisfactory rating).

8. Lessons Learned


   1.    Cultivate commitment in upcoming managerial cadres
   Aside from resistance to reforms from some quarters which should be expected, the problem of
   commitment to reform was exacerbated by changes in the senior management who was advocating the
   reforms. The Borrowers need to build strong commitment at all managerial levels to enhance the
   reform's sustainability over time.

   2.    Identify opposition from the outset and gauge resistance to proposed reforms
   The project had many strong supporters and enjoyed solid commitment that carried over from the
   Railway Technical Assistance Project. However, some resistance arose from the outset from DGLC
   and even the Daops in Perumka/PTKA, and the commitment of MoF was not as strongly demonstrated
   as that of Bappenas and the railways. More efforts are necessary during preparation to identify the
   opposition, assess their potential influence on the project, institute mitigation measures and carry out a
   "socialization" of the reforms.

   3.    The Bank's presence keeps momentum for reforms alive
   Despite the failure of the reforms, the studies undertaken have increased the awareness of PTKA's
   board and staff, the IACC and senior government officials of the main issues involved in restructuring,
   as well as the different alternatives and approaches, and critical prerequisites for any successful reform.
   The Bank's engagement and support of the reform process helped keep it alive (PTKA is still looking
   into restructuring options and experimenting with pilot projects). However, without the Bank's support,
   the reforms, even though they may ultimately succeed, they will be harder to achieve and most likely
   take more time.

   4.    Policy reform takes time
   Reform processes are inherently complex to implement, require high degree of stakeholder consultation,
   analysis of impacts on the various affected groups and consensus building. They often require
   institutional as well as behavioral changes. For this reason, the Bank may want to consider (or
   realistically expect) longer tenures for loans dealing with challenging policy reform issues.

   5.    Simplified and harmonized procurement procedures are necessary



                                                      - 17 -

   Procurement was delayed for many reasons as discussed in Sections 5.2 and 5.3. While harmonization
   of DGLC's and the Bank's requirements as suggested in Section 4.5 early on would save time, the Bank
   needs to set realistic schedules. Given that this was the PMU's first experience with ICB, delays were
   probable. It would be useful for the Bank to assess procurement capacity and risks of delays.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


9.1     Project Implementation

    9.1.1 Organization and Staffing

          Overall responsibility for coordinating and guiding the implementation of REP vested in the
          IACC (Inter Agency Coordinating Committee) established by a Minister of Communication's
          Decree. This committee consists of a Steering Committee (chaired by the Secretary General of
          MOC, with members from representatives of related Government Officials), and an Inter Agency
          Working Group (chaired by the Secretary of Land Transport Directorate General, with members
          from the Deputies of the above mentioned officials).

          For the Non Physical component's implementation, a Restructuring Task Force (RTF) was
          established, chaired by the BoD of Perumka/PT. KA, with Perumka/PT.KA staffs as the
          members.

          The physical component execution is the responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU),
          which consists of three Project Implementation Units (PIUs), namely :

        a. PIU for Jakarta ­ Bandung Corridor improvements and track maintenance systems, including
            related training.
        b. PIU for Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System, including related training
        c. PIU for the Institutional Development

9.1.2   The Non Physical Components Implementations

a.      Transforming Perumka into PT.Kereta Api (Persero)

            Based on the "Goals and Policies", in the covenant stated that Perumka will be transformed
            into PT Kereta Api (Persero) on January 1, 1998. In deciding the transformation, there were
            some argues in the company, causing the delay in the process, so that the transformation
            happened in June 1, 1999, resulting an Unsatisfactory rating from the Bank, and an
            administrative sanction was implemented (suspension of disbursements: from December 1998
            up to June 1999).       The Organization structure will be arranged on regional and line of
            business. The PT KA Board of Directors decided that Java organized on line of business
            principle (Divisions), and Sumatera on regional basis. In Java 7 divisions shall be established
            (Jabotabek Railway, Rolling Stock, Training, Property, Passenger, Freight, and IMO Debates
            on the choice between establishing an IMO Division or an IMC Division, solved by the help of
            an International Consultant (Canarail). IMO = Infrastructure Maintenance and Operation,
            IMC = Infrastructure Maintenance and Construction Divisions), and a Train Restaurant sister
            company. Sumatera is divided into 3 Regional Divisions (North, West and South Sumatera



                                                     - 18 -

       Regional Divisions). Java organization structure is being implemented gradually with the 4
       first Divisions already established. The 3 latter Divisions is currently under intensive
       preparation and planned to be declared in mid September 2005 and in full operation by
       January 2006.

b.  Separation of Jabotabek

       One of the policy reform plan (as stated in the SAR) is the financial and managerial separation
       of the Jabotabek and Java Inter-city systems. From the agreement reached it was stated that
       the GOI implement the financial separation of the Jabotabek and Java Inter-urban rail systems
       by February 28, 1997. The separation of the Jabotabek and Java interurban rail systems is
       actually implemented in 1999, except for basic infrastructures which is still jointly used with
       Java Interurban transport. Ideally the Jabotabek Railway should operate on its own
       infrastructure, with some joint/integrated stations.

c.  Tariff Rationalization and Exit Plan

       As stated in the Goals & Policies, the Management entity will in general be empowered to set
       the tariffs and rates for railway services at levels that will enable it to cover the associated
       financial costs of provisions, including track charges ­ if and when levied ­ and to earn a
       reasonable return on assets employed. To reach this condition, the BoD of PT.KA hired an
       Australian Consultant to study on the tariff calculation and setting, including the exit plan for
       loosing services. PT KA BoD has prepared the basic concept for tariff specifically for the
       economy class passenger and now in the process of approval from MOC and the Parliament.

d.  Assets Revaluation

       The Bank criticized the financial report of PT KA (not picturing the real numbers) due to the
       fact that PT KA assets are calculated on much lower price basis. This down pricing was
       happened when Perumka transformed into PT KA, to avoid high taxation. At present a
       simulation is being undertaken to foresee the impact if the re-evaluation is done.

e.  Implementation of PSO, IMO, TAC

       The Reform covers administrative and financial relationship to reposition both the Government
       (as Regulator and Owner) and the company (as Operator). For the financial relationship, a
       Joint Decree of three Ministers (and an implementation decree of three Director Generals) were
       published to regulate, calculate and implement the PSO (Public Service Obligations), IMO
       (Infrastructure Maintenance and Operation Cost), and TAC (Traffic Access Charges) budget
       arrangement. The implementation, however, is not coincide with the agreed process, and not
       meet the principle stated in the Goals and Policies.
       The World Bank commented that the PSO, IMO, TAC budget mechanisms are still not being
       implemented in accordance with the adopted procedures and that the Parliament has recently
       expressed concern of this matter (Aide Memoire of June 23, 2003). Since the implementation
       from year 2000 until 2004, in accordance to audit results from BPKP, there still exists a
       cumulative difference of 1.3 trillion Rupiah.

       The principle stated in the Goals & Policies determine that the TAC will be implemented in
       line with the implementation of the RUC (Road User Charges). The RUC is not implemented


                                               - 19 -

         yet, but the TAC is already implemented.

f.    Regulations for Implementing Law 13/92

         To support the Railway law No. 13/92 some regulations have been issued, i.e.:
      a. Government Regulations (GR) No. 69/98, concerning Infrastructure and Rolling Stock, issued
         on August 20, 1998
      b. GR No. 81/98 concerning Railway Traffic and Transport, issued on November 30, 1998

g.    Business Chance Identification


         Perumka physical utilization of assets is good but the financial return on assets is poor. From
         the analysis made it is concluded that Perumka has relatively high in terms of physical
         measures of asset utilization, but mainly due to depressed passenger fares, the revenue
         earnings of its physical assets are inadequate and significantly lower than the railways in
         Thailand, Austria and Belgium.

h.    Regulation Formulation for Private Sector Participation (PSP)
         The RTF (PSP Working Group) has prepared a draft for the Ministerial Decree on the
         Regulation for the PSP and has been submitted to MOC. The Working Group has prepared
         also a computer based data and site plan on land use for join project with Private Sectors,
         whether BOT, BOO or other form of join business to invite PSP for utilising space of lands
         belongs to Perumka/PT.KA. While in the field of the core business itself few companies have
         expressed their interest but did not follow up due to commercial considerations.

      i. Implementation of Infrastructure Investment Plan

         Beside the double track construction in the Jakarta ­ Bandung corridor, GOI is also
         constructing double track at some locations, i.e. :
         - Cikampek ­ Cirebon line, funded by JBIC loan
         - Kroya ­ Yogyakarta line, funded by JBIC loan
         - Manggarai ­ Cikarang line (a double double track) funded by JBIC loan
         - Yogyakarta ­ Solo funded through own budget (APBN)
         - The next double track construction is in Cirebon ­ Kroya line which would be funded by
            China.

9.1.3 The Physical Components Implementations

a.    Double Tracking Construction

         The construction of double tracking was done in the sections of Cikampek-Purwakarta 19 km,
         Ciganea-Sukatani 7 km, and Plered-Cisomang 6 km.
         Due to the slowness burreaucracy of the tender process, the completion of the double tracking
         civil works planned to be finished on April 2003 exceeded the original loan closing date
         (September 2002), and the loan was extended (one year, up to September 30, 2003). The
         construction works of the double tracking was slow progressing, and the completions were
         delayed i.e.: Cikampek ­ Purwakarta end of July 2003, Ciganea ­ Sukatani end of August
         2003, Plered ­ Cisomang end of July 2003, comparing with the plan that all the double


                                                  - 20 -

       tracking work should be finished in June 2003.

       The double tracking on the Ciganea-Sukatani section is delayed due to the soil stabilization
       problem in the area. A significant landslide occurred in km 110, so that the completion was
       delayed and consequently the Loan was extended again for another one year, especially for
       completing the section and landslide countermeasure works. All works related with the
       landslide countermeasures was completed in December 2004 and the line has been in full
       operation since February 2005.

b.  Modernization of the Signalling System

       The signalling modernization was cancelled from the loan which resulted in reducing the loan
       from USD 105 million to USD 85 million. The system then modernized, supported by Dutch
       loan. The modernization of signalling system (electric) was cancelled from the Bank Loan, the
       existing system (electro mechanical) retained. GOI accepted Dutch Loan for the signalling
       modernization. and is currently operating.

c.  Stations Remodelling

       The remodelling of stations were implemented in 14 stations, i.e.: Cikampek, Cibungur,
       Sadang, Purwakarta, Ciganea, Sukatani, Plered, Cisomang, Cikadongdong, Rendeh, Maswati,
       Sasaksaat, Cilame and Padalarang.

d.  Modernization of Track Maintenance System

       At the implementation stage the tender process for the establishment of the Rail Reclamation
       Yard was very slow. The first tender failed, due to : (i) . reluctance of the management
       involved (traumatic fail experience in a similar project in 1980s, (ii) monetary crisis in the
       country.
       The 3 packages tendered (procurement of track materials and machineries, construction of Rail
       Reclamation Yard, training for operating personnels) then simplified into one single turn key
       package, helped by a Belgium consultant, and re-tendered. To the program, the work will be
       completed in mid 2004, far exceeding the loan closing date, resulting in an agreement to cancel
       the Rail Reclamation Yard, except the purchase of 100 km track new rails, including the
       sleepers and fastenings.

          The implemented activities are:
       ·    Procurement of new rails, PC sleepers with and without guard rails (for straight and curve
            sections)
       ·    Technical assistance for Bid Document preparation to convert the 3 bid documents into
            one single package and for bid evaluation (for the Rail Reclamation yard),

          As the consequence of the cancellation of the Rail Reclamation Yard construction, the
          modernization of the track maintenance system is not functioned, but the partial restoration
          (track rehabilitation program) to change R42 rails on wooden/steel sleepers to R54 rails on
          concrete sleepers is implemented as follows :
       ·    In FY 2004 - 17.15 km have been installed between Cimekar ­ Cicalengka and Ciawi ­
            Rajapolah.
       ·    In this FY 2005 - 28.460 km will be installed between Bandung - Lebakjero and 11.105


                                               - 21 -

           km between Purwakarta - Padalarang
      ·    In FY 2006 , 29.095 km between Lebakjero ­ Tasikmalaya and 14.190 km between
           Purwakarta ­ Padalarang has been programmed

        The replaced R42 rails shall be selected for use in lower tonnage lines.

        Training of Maintenance Personnel
        The training of maintenance personnel is directly related to the establishment of the Rail
        Reclamation Yard (RRY). Because the RRY was cancelled, consequently the training was
        also cancelled.

        Consultants Services
        The consultant service related to this package was only for the design of the RRY and the
        change of tender documents, from three packages into one single package (Belgium
        Consultant).

e.  Modernization of Locomotive Maintenance System

        Activities implemented to achieve the modernization plan were:
      ·    Procurement of machinery such as Long Lead Machinery, Medium Lead Machinery and
           Short Lead Machinery
      ·    Construction and Installation civil works for Underfloor wheel lathe construction
      ·    Procurement of Unit Exchange Components and Spareparts
      ·    Consulting Services and Training T.A. for the Implementation of Locomotive Maintenance

      ·    A multi media modules for training

      The implementation has begun from June 2002 and up to date 70 % of the parts have been
      used up consisting of 97 % used for production of Unit Exchange Components and 3 %
      consumed for spare parts., due to the shortage of available maintenance spare parts This is
      caused by the fact that the utilization of components used are much faster than the production
      due to shortage of available spareparts.

      As an ilustration, the yearly requirement of spareparts for 149 GE locomotives is estimated at
      91 billion rupiah while the available budget in 2005 is only 79 billion rupiah where 35 billion
      is allocated for the Unit Exchange Program to maintain buffer stock of components.

      The shortage of electricity supply for the Yogyakarta workshop has been resolved by
      optimizing the available capacity and arranging working time so that not all machines work at
      the same time. Some machines had broken down and repairs already undertaken by local
      resources. Up to date, 3 machines are still under process of repair and scheduled to be
      completed by end of July 2005. The utilization of machines needed some time for adaptation
      and change of mindset of the operators but is gradually being accepted. Another illustration is
      the use of the gear case washer machine to clean TM gear box which now takes only 3 hours
      for 1 locomotive set compared to previously 3 days for 1 locomotive set.

      With the numerous items (~ 6.000 items ) being circulated a computerized Management
      Information System is currently being developed to replace the current system.




                                               - 22 -

f.  Institutional Developments

        To implement the development concept for Institutional Strengthening, some consultants'
        services and procurement of equipment were implemented:
        - Network Simulation Model (NSM) for line capacity planning
        - Development of a Bridge Maintenance Management System (BMMS)

        The Long term study for the Jakarta-Bandung corridor development was cancelled on two
        reasons: the implementation will exceed the existing available allocated time, and the result will
        not be implemented in a quite long period. The NSM and the BMMS were already
        implemented and could support the reformed management to work in more sophisticated and
        accurate way, especially in operating the railway and maintaining its facilities.

        While the NSM software is running and in good condition, the main constraint now is the
        effort to collect and input all actual data (conditions). Since the implementation of the
        software, some changes have occurred to the original team due to dynamics of internal staff
        rotation where one of the key personnel have undertaken a masters program abroad and shall
        graduate on September 2005. PT KA BoD has planned for him to undertake this task.

g.  Alternative Route

        The works for improvement of the alternative route was already implemented and completed,
        but heavy landslides occurred on the hill above the Lampegan tunnel between Cianjur and
        Sukabumi, causing the collapse of the tunnel, and the route was impossible to be operated.
        Repair works for the tunnel is planned in this FY 2005.




                                               - 23 -

9.2   Project Cost and Disbursement

    9.2.1 Project Cost Data

     Executing Agency                            Ministry of Communication
     Project Nama                                Railway Efficiency Project (REP)
     Loan Number                                 IBRD No. 4106 ­ IND
     Loan Effective Date                         13 June 1997
     Loan Closing Date                           30 September 2003 for Category (2), (4)(b) and
                                                 (5)(a)
                                                 30 December 2004 for Category (1) and (5)(b)

     Loan Amount :
     ·                                           US $ 105,000,000
                                                 US $ 85,200,000
     Original                                    US $ 19,800,000( SLA ) Out of the US $ 105
         On GOI's Account                        millions, US $ 19,8 million is lended through by
         On Perumka/PT.KA Account                GOI/MOF to Perumka/PT.KA, named as
     ·                                           Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA), where
                                                 Perumka/PT.KA acts as the Executing Agency.
     Revised 1 (December 2, 1999)                This sum is not changed until the closing of the
     ·                                           Loan.
                                                 US $ 85,000,000
     Revised 2 (September 27, 2002)              US $ 57,625,000

     Loan Category (after revision ­ January 30,
     2003)                                       US $ 15,200,000
     (1) Civil Works (Jkt - Bdg Corridor)        US $      200,000
     (2) Civil Works (Loco Unit Exchange)        US $       0
     (3) Jkt-Bad Corridor Signal
     (4) Equipment and Materials                 US $ 17,360,000
         (a) for part B and C of the project     US $   18,670,000 ( SLA )
         (b) for part D of the Project
     (5) Consultant Services                     US $    850,000 ( SLA )
         (a) for part A, D , E1 and E2 of the    US $ 4,300,000
         project                                 US$    1,095,000
          (b) for part B and C of the Project
    Unallocated




                                              - 24 -

9.2.2     Project Disbursement

     PART     Currency     ACTUAL               IBRD             TOTAL
                          CONTRACT           FINANCING      DISBURSEMENT
                            VALUE
                              GOI              LOAN       (Excl.VAT)GOILOAN
                                                                    %
  Part A         USD                   0           78,232                  71,120
                 IDR                   0     958,792,208             871,629,2800
                                                                          071,120
                                                                 864,705,35999.54
Part B           USD                   0        9,655,629               8,777,845
                 IDR      46,408,774,309     163,103,302,         148,275,729,928
                                                      921  46,364,456,6758,676,08
                                                                                9
                                                            148,159,823,49399.55
Part C           USD                   0        5,212,585               4,738,714
                 IDR                   0     67,115,125,0         61,013,750,0000
                                                       00              04,269,227
                                                               3,208,502,29099.98
Part D           USD               9,485       19,933,612              18,121,466
                 EUR                              288,714                 262,467
                 IDR         518,297,600     10,100,278,1      9,182,071,0758,622
                                                       83
                                                           515,357,72118,119,127
                                                                          262,467
                                                               9,131,694,37899.96
Part E           USD                   0          773,518                 703,198
                 IDR                   0     1,932,602,33          1,756,911,2130
                                                        4                0669,978
                                                               1,638,088,85694.83
TOTAL            USD               9,485       35,653,576              32,412,342
                 EUR                              288,714                 262,467
                 IDR      46,927,071,909     243,210,100,   221,100,091,4968,622
                                                      646
                                                           46,879,814,39632,274,1
                                                                               48
                                                                          262,467
                                                            220,796,309,37699.70
     1 US$ = Rp. 9.000
     1 Eur = Rp. 9.000




                                       - 25 -

                                                FINANCIALPOSITION
                                              BASEDONLOANRECIPIENT
                        60,000,000




                        50,000,000




                        40,000,000



                     $

                      US30,000,000




                        20,000,000




                        10,000,000




                               -
                                      GOI-MOC                   SLA-PTKA      TOTAL

   BUDGET                             37,875,000                19,800,000    57,675,000

   CONTRACTED(fixedexchangerate)      37,518,537                19,722,949    57,241,486

   Disbursed(basedonfixedexchange)    37,361,764                19,707,863    57,069,628

   Replenished(actualexchangerate)    37,842,784                19,781,731    57,624,515

   BALANCE                             32,216                    18,269        50,485

t




                                                 - 26 -

                        FINANCIAL POSITION BASED ON PROJECT PART


                     70,000,000



                     60,000,000



                     50,000,000



                     40,000,000
  $

   US

                     30,000,000



                     20,000,000



                     10,000,000



                            -
                                                                                       Part E
                                 PartA (Policy PartB(Jak-Bd PartC(Track Part D (Loco
                                  Reform)         corridor)  maintsyst) maintsyst)   (Institutional  TOTAL
                                                                                        Dev.)

CONTRACTEDloanprotion-fixedrate   167,968       25,252,926   11,518,020 19,404,163     898,411      57,241,486

DISBURSED(fixedexchangerate9.000) 167,287       25,138,291   11,515,833 19,396,227     851,988      57,069,628

REPLENISHED-actualexchangerate    169,801       25,087,262   12,037,600 19,466,304     863,548      57,624,515




                                              - 27 -

                                                             FINANCIAL POSITION
                                               BASED ON DISBURSEMENTCATEGORY

             20,000,000


             18,000,000


             16,000,000


             14,000,000


             12,000,000


          US$10,000,000


              8,000,000


              6,000,000


              4,000,000


              2,000,000


                     -
                                                                                                (4)(b) Equip.and       (5)(a) Cons.services (5)(b) Cons.services
                          (1) Civil works for Jak. (2) Civilworksforloc. (4)(a) Equip.and
                              BDCorridor              Unit Exch.-SLA    material for part B & C Material for part D - forpartsA,DandE(1) - forpartB,C,E(2)&
                                                                                                       SLA                     SLA                  E(4)

Budget                        15,200,000                 200,000            17,360,000             18,670,000                 850,000             4,300,000

contracted-fixedrate-9.000    15,315,378                 201,733            17,361,686             18,672,358                 848,858             4,841,473

disbursed-fixedrate-9.000     15,313,512                 201,733            17,319,286             18,672,358                 833,772             4,728,966

Replenished-actual rate       15,248,502                 218,784            17,856,828             18,734,905                 828,042             4,737,454




                                                                     - 28 -

9.3    Lessons Learned

9.3.1  Responsibility as Bank Borrower

           The loan is soft and for a long period, but the implementation is very tight, due to Bank policy
           implementing its process approach. Plenty covenants must be obeyed and fulfilled by GOI and
           PT KA, and in some cases not fully under control of the policy maker, such as the PSO, IMO,
           TAC budget arrangement, so that up to the closing of the loan, the agreed mechanism (rules) is
           not fully implemented. In some cases, the borrower feel as if haunted by the lender.

           On the other side, due to the deep involvement (penetration) of the Bank, some difference of
           opinions (friction) between the Bank and the Borrower were happened. To mention as an
           example: the KA-Clips case. GOI and PT.KA declared that the KA-Clips rail fastening is
           technically legalized to be installed on the PT.KA tracks. The Bank, however, will not legalize
           (and will not bare the cost of) the installation if the clips is not Internationally certified, but will
           support the installation in sidings only.

9.3.2  Internal Borrower's Problem

a.     Functional Problem
         Although the executing organization for implementing the REP is good, but in some extent, parts
         of the organization were not functioning well as regulated in the MOC (establishment) Decree.
         This was happened due to the fact that not all related officials master fully the stipulations and
         covenants stated in the Goals & Policies, SAR, Loan Agreement and Project Agreement which
         were agreed by GOI and the World Bank, and become the basis for executing the project.
b.     Physical Component
         Law 13/92 stipulated that the infrastructure is owned by the Government. Based on this
         principle, the infrastructure development and construction must be processed through the owner
         (proposed by the Project Manager, discussed in PT KA Board of Directors, proposed to DGLC,
         discussed to MOC and to Bappenas). This is time consuming. Based on the experience, DGLC
         implemented some shortcut steps and succeeded in making the process faster than before.

c.     Non Physical Component
         The consistency in the Government decision is low. As an example : the PSO, IMO, TAC budget
         arrangement was agreed by three Ministers and three Director Generals, but the implementation
         is not following the agreed rules fully, due to the change in the related Government officials. The
         TAC as stated in the Goals & Policies will be applied in line with the Road User Charges. The
         RUC is not applied yet, but the TAC is applied.

9.4    Sustainability of Railway Development

    The sustainability will depend on:
    ·  legal basis of the government policy to develop the railway. The existing document is the Goals &
       Policies, which has weakness in the format as a legal document and need to be renewed and
       published as a stronger document
    ·  strong commitment on the related officials in the Government and the company. The commitments
       to implement the Government Policy must be possessed by all related officials, materialized by
       strong support in the implementations


                                                    - 29 -

    ·   consistency in the implementation
    ·   availability of funds needed

    These factors should be developed for the sustainability of the railway transport sub-sector
    development

9.5     Conclusions

a.      The REP Benefit for the Railway Transport Sub-sector Development

        As a Policy Reform Project, REP is successful in introducing the change in the railway
        management. To be mentioned among others are :
        -     the mind set change, where most of related officials are now aware that the railway company
              must be handled as a service business, and that the business must be done not as usual.
        -     repositioning of both the Government (as owner and regulator) and the railway company as
              operator, with clear relationships, administratively and financially.
        -     although still not fully well applied, the PSO, IMO, TAC budget arrangement is now familiar
              and become a model for public sector services.



b.      The Follow Up

        The REP is actually not fully completed yet, both in the Non Physical Component and in the
        Physical Component. Up to the closing of the related funding from the Loan, the Non Physical
        (Policy Reform) is just reaching the decision and preparation for implementing the planned
        Organization Structure, which planned to be in full operational on year 2006.

        Based on past experience, the consistency of implementation needs to be guided and monitored by
        the policy makers, and escorted by experience professionals.

        On the Physical part, some cancelled packages need to be thought the possibility of execution to
        complete the development plan.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



                                                                            Base       Year            Actual
No   Objectives                 Indicator                      Unit         Year       2002
                                                                            1995      target     2003  2004   2005
                                                                           [SAR]      [SAR]

 1  Policy                                               % completed on
    Reform          a. Action Plan Implementation        schedule           n.a.

    Capital

 2  Investment      a. Annual revision of                submitted on
    Rationalizat    infrastructure investment plan       time               n.a.

    ion
                    b. Financial evaluation of
                    Perumka investment projects          Rp billion         n.a.
                    grater than

 3  Operational     a. Loco availability at Bandung
    Performanc      and Semarang                         % available         80         85       81.3   91     91

    e               b. Loco availability at other
                    Java depots                          % available        82.3        85       83.7   90     90

                    c. Java main track kilometers
                    with temporary speed                 Unit per day        35         30        80    65     65
                    restrictions
                    d. Java main track kilometers
                    with track quality below             km                 960         890     1258.3 1007.6 742.5
                    standard
                    e. Total Perumka Labor
                    Productivity                         1000TU/Person      520         825      612    648    700


                    f. Java locomotive fleet             a. 1000TU/ALD      187         330      199    213    279

                    utilization                          b. km per day      350         570      650    664    800

                    g. Java intercity coach fleet
                    utilization                          1000TU/ACD          35         53        35    34     38

    Financial
 4  Performanc      a. Self-financing ratio              Decimal ratio                  0.4      4.91   7.36   5.73
    e
                    b. Debt service coverage             Decimal ratio                  2.1      3.16   1.82   1.82

                    c. Return on net assets              %                               5       0.06   0.13   0.15

 5  Jakarta -       a. Peak period capacity              No. trains per
    Bandung         available                            hour                 3          5        6      6      7

    Corridor
    Performanc      b. Peak period capacity utilized     No. trains per      2.5         4        5      5     6.5
    e                                                    hour

                    c. Passenger & freight train
                    delays                               Minutes per day

                    during
                    construction/implementation

 6  Quality of      a. Java passenger train
    Service         punctuality                          % of trains         35         45        46    48     50

                    (trains less than 15 minutes late)   operated
                    b. Java container train
                    punctuality                          % of trains         25         35        40    42     43

                    (trains less than 30 minutes late)   operated



   TU = Traffic Unit          ALD = Available Loco Day                  ACD = Available Coach day




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Policy Reform                                             4.30            0.17               4
2. Jakarta-Bandung Corridor                                121.30          98.40             81.1
3. Track Upgrading and maintenance system                   37.50          12.00               32
4. Locomotive unit exchange maintenance system              15.00          19.50              130
5. Institutional Development                                 4.00            0.86            21.5

Total Baseline Cost                                        182.10         130.93
 Physical Contingencies                                     12.60                            71.9
 Price Contingencies                                        12.70                            63.1
                         Total Project Costs               207.40         130.93
                   Total Financing Required                207.40         130.93


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          24.10             3.00         0.00         13.40        40.50
                                  (7.20)           (1.80)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (9.00)
2. Goods                          85.70             0.00         0.10         62.20        148.00
                                 (83.50)           (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)      (83.60)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        15.50         0.00         15.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.40)        (0.00)      (12.40)
4. Land Acquisition and            0.00             0.00         0.00         0.90          0.90
Resettlement
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         109.80             3.00        15.60         76.50        204.90
                                 (90.70)           (1.80)      (12.50)        (0.00)      (105.00)




                                                - 32 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                12.78              7.57              0.23             0.00             20.58
                                           (10.02)            (5.24)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (15.46)
    2. Goods                                35.95              0.57              0.07             68.13            104.72
                                           (35.95)            (0.57)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (36.59)
    3. Services                             3.96               0.25              1.36             0.00              5.57
                                           (3.96)             (0.25)            (1.36)            (0.00)           (5.57)
    4. Land Acquisition and                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.07              0.07
    Resettlement
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               52.69              8.39              1.66             68.20            130.94
                                           (49.93)            (6.06)            (1.63)            (0.00)           (57.62)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Policy Reform                3.41         0.85         0.00        0.17         0.00       0.00        5.0      0.0       0.0
2. Jakarta-Bandung             44.93        14.18        62.20       25.09         5.15      68.13       55.8      36.3    109.5
Corridor
3. Track Upgrading and         25.02        12.53         0.00       12.04         0.00       0.00       48.1      0.0       0.0
maintenance system
4. Locomotive Unit             13.09         1.89         0.00       19.47         0.01       0.00       148.7     0.5       0.0
exchange maintenance
system
5. Institutional                3.18         0.79         0.00        0.86         0.00       0.00       27.0      0.0       0.0
Development




                                                           - 33 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 A.   Economic Appraisal

  An economic analysis was carried out, and presented in the SAR, for three of the project's components:
  the Jakarta-Bandung Corridor, the track maintenance system and the locomotive exchange maintenance
  system. The analysis compared the situation with the project improvements to the situation without
  any project improvements. The two situations are typically called the "with the project case" and the
  "without the project (or base) case" respectively. The original economic returns in the SAR and the
  re-estimated returns for the three components are given in Table A3.1 below:

                             Economic Net Present Value in SAR and ICR

                                                             ENPV                ENPV
                     Project Component                  (1996 RP billion)    (1996 RP billion)
                                                        [SAR Estimate]        [ICR Estimate]
                     Jakarta ­ Bandung Corridor                81                  (77)
                     Track Maintenance System                 228                  Zero
                     Locomotive Exchange                       39                   21
                     Maintenance System



                        Table A3.1: Economic Net present Value In SAR and ICR

                                                              ENPV              ENPV
                         Project Component               (1996 RP billion) (1996 RP billion)
                                                         [SAR Estimate]     [ICR Estimate]
                         Jakarta ­ Bandung Corridor            81                 (77)
                         Track Maintenance System              228               Zero
                         Locomotive Exchange                   39                  21
                         Maintenance System



  The re-estimation of the economic returns typically involves using actual cost figures for the project
  while also updating its benefits based on what has materialized in the short period since completion.
  One can argue that the base case for this project should also be adjusted to reflect the economic
  impacts of the Asian Crisis. This would indeed provide a sound reference point. However, our
  objectives in carrying out this exercise are a) to determine whether the investment remains
  economically viable and b) which deviations from the original assumptions and projections have had
  the largest impact on the change in the project's outcome. Consequently no changes were made to the
  base case.

  1. The Jakarta Bandung Corridor

  In the original estimation, this component had an ENPV of 81 billion Rupiah in 1996 prices and an
  EIRR of 15%. When re-estimated for the ICR, the economic returns were negative with an ENPV of
  minus 77 billion Rupiah (in 1996 prices). Table A3.2 presents the changes in the key variables that
  have led to the sharp drop in economic returns.




                                                    - 34 -

               TableA3.2DifferenceBetweenSARandICREstimationsforKeyVariables
                                                        PresentValuein1996billionRp
                                                     SAR      ICR     Difference(ICR-SAR)
            Investments
               Signaling&Telecom                     131       121              (10)
               Track&Bridge                           60       15               (45)
               RollingStock                           28       10               (18)

            Costsassociatedwithpassengeruse/1       (298)      (88)             210
            Costsassociatedwith freightuse/1         (25)       0                25
            Totaldifference/2                                                   162
           1.Vehicleoperatingcosts,passengertimeandroadcosts(congestion,pollutionandaccidents)
           2.Thisisthetotaldifferenceforthevariablesinthistableonly.Othervariablescontributesmall
           differences.


The main economic benefit of this corridor upgradation is the time and vehicle operating cost savings.
There are also additional benefits due to the reduction in accident rates and pollution. All benefits are a
direct function of the number of car users who switch to rail as a result of the project. In the original
estimation, rail passenger traffic was projected to grow at 8% per annum and capacity of the railway
corridor was projected to be reached by 2003. Consequently any incremental traffic could only be
accommodated by road. However, and largely due to the 1997 Asian crisis, maximum capacity for the
rail line has not been reached yet and is projected to be reached by 2008 and PTKA has revised
passenger growth projections down from 8% to about 5%. As a result, the projected number of
executive and business class passengers in 2020 dropped from 11.1 million to 7.2 million. The 8%
annual growth assumption was plausible given the annual growth rate between 1987 and 1995 was
9.4%. Table A3.3 shows the difference between the original and the revised projections of the number
of executive and business class passengers on the Jakrarta Bandung Corridor.

                         Table A3.3: Original and Revised Passenger Projections
                                               (millions)

                     Year         No. of          Actual/revised      Difference
                               Passengers      projections of No. of
                               as projected    Passengers (ICR)/2
                                in SAR/1



                     2002          3.5                 3.2                -0.3
                     2003          3.8                 3.1                -0.7
                     2004          4.1                 3.3                -0.8
                     2005          4.4                 3.6                -0.8
                     2006          4.7                 3.5                -1.3
                     2007          5.1                 3.6                -1.5
                     2008          5.5                 3.8                -1.7
                     2009          6.0                 4.0                -2.0




                                                 - 35 -

                       2010          6.5                 4.2                  -2.3
                       2011          7.0                 4.4                  -2.6
                       2012          7.5                 4.6                  -2.9
                       2013          8.1                 4.9                  -3.3
                       2014          8.8                 5.1                  -3.7
                       2015          9.5                 5.4                  -4.1
                       2016          10.3                5.6                  -4.6
                       2017          11.1                5.9                  -5.2
                       2018          11.1                6.2                  -4.9
                       2019          11.1                6.5                  -4.5
                       2020          11.1                6.8                  -4.2
                       2021          11.1                7.2                  -3.9
                                                 Source: SAR
                                                 Source: PTKA actual figures and revised projections


  Another contributing factor to the drop in the economic benefits is the sharp decline in container traffic
  from 435 thousand tons in year 2002 to about 171 thousand tons in 2003 (largely due to a 130% tariff
  increase). At present, there is plenty of capacity for container movements on the rail corridor and
  achieving the benefits of the projected increase in container traffic through 2020 would not have
  required the upgradation

  Finally, as Table A3.2 shows, the relative drop in ridership is significantly larger than that of the
  ENPV. While the difference between the ENPVs estimated in the SAR and for the ICR is about 162
  billion 1996 Rupiah, the benefits dropped 235 billion 1996 Rupiah. The savings in the cost of civil
  works and the signaling system coupled with the lower quantities of rolling stock required (due to
  slower growth of traffic) reduced the difference by about 73 billion Rupiah.

2. The Track Maintenance System

The focus in the estimation of the economic benefits was the establishment of the maintenance system, an
objective that did not materialize (see Section 4.2.3). Under these component, the project also supplied
rail parts. The Bank's assessment was that these parts would be the minimum necessary and would be
carried out with or without the project. Consequently, there is no difference between the "without the
project" case, typically known as the base case and the project case and the ENPV is zero for both
components. Potential savings from procurement under ICB or an increase in cost incurred in preparing,
tendering, and evaluating bids could have resulted in marginal positive or negative impacts.

3. The Locomotive Unit Exchange Maintenance System

The objective of the new system was to increase maintenance efficiency and to reduce the down time of
locomotives consequently increasing their availability and productivity. The SAR estimated that a) on
time maintenance rather than maintenance at time of component failure, b) the use of readily available
exchange components and c) the reduction in the frequency of locomotive maintenance would result in
annual savings equivalent to adding 10, 14 and 4 locomotives respectively. These benefits were assumed
to be generated gradually over a 6 year period after which they would remain constant. The ENPV and
EIRR for the maintenance system were estimated in the SAR at 39 billion 1996 Rupiahs and 26.3%
respectively.

The ENPV and the EIRR estimated for the ICR were 21 billion 1996 Rupiah and 18.5% respectively.


                                                  - 36 -

The difference is due to an increase in cost of about 11.9 billion 1996 Rupiah (see Section 5.4) and a
reduction in benefits. The savings generated from on time maintenance and the reduction in scheduled
maintenance were smaller than those projected in the SAR. The gross benefits expressed as additional
locomotives dropped from 28 in the SAR to 24 in the ICR. Table A3.4 shows the savings expressed as
additional locomotives as estimated in the SAR and the ICR broken down by source.


                          Table A3.4: Savings expressed as additional locomotives

                                                                  SAR          ICR
                         On time maintenance                        10          7.5
                         Use of readily available exchange          14          15
                         components
                        Reduction in maintenance frequency          4           1.5
                        Total                                       28          24



B.    Financial Appraisal

1. The Jakarta Bandung Corridor

The financial returns for this component as estimated in the SAR are marginally negative at a discount
rate of 12% (FNPV of about minus 10 billion 1996 Rupiah) and an FIRR of 11.7%. However, this
variable serves as a descriptive statistic and not a decision criterion as it was clear that the project
investments in the corridor were not going to be financed by the private sector. From financial and fiscal
perspectives, the important question is with respect to the financial sustainability of the investments in the
corridor (availability of resources for maintenance and operation) but this is necessarily linked to the
overall financial performance and reforms of PTKA (see Section 4.4.1).

To obtain a general sense of how the financial returns have changed after implementation, a re-estimation
using price and passenger growth projections provided by PTKA was carried out. It shows a sharp
decline in the financial returns to the investment. The sharp drop is due to two main reasons: lower
traffic volumes and tariffs. The present value of the incremental revenues as projected in the SAR was
375 billion 2001 Rupiahs compared to 190 billion 2001 Rupiahs as re-estimated in the ICR. The
downward revision of the projected demand and the slow growth over the past few years is discussed in
Section 4.3.1 above. With respect to projected tariff rates, real prices were held constant throughout the
analysis period in the estimation in the SAR. However, real tariffs declined under PTKA's projections.
Adjustment of the nominal tariffs projected by PTKA through 2021 for business and executive classes
lags well behind an assumed average annual inflation rate of 6%. By 2021, the projected tariff for the
executive service will be less than 60% of its real value in 2002 (see Figure A3.1 below). Further
contributing to the negative financial returns, although to a smaller degree, is the fact that container
traffic dropped significantly in 2003 and has not recovered (see Section A.1).

It is important to keep in mind that the financial analysis conducted for this project does not address the
commercial viability of the entire corridor, but rather the financial return on a particular investment to
upgrade the corridor.

   Figure A3.1: Real tariff projections (in 2002 Rupiah) used in SAR and in ICR for the Executive
                                               Class -Argo Gede


                                                    - 37 -

80000

70000

60000
50000

40000
               Executive Class price
30000          projections (SAR)
20000          PTKA revised price
10000          projections/Actual
   0


    2002 2004 2006  2008   2010  2012 2014 2016 2018 2020




                              - 38 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/15/1993                2    Engineer (1), and Economist (1)       S               S
              09/15/1994                4    Engineer (1), Economist (1) and       S               S
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
              04/18/1995                5    Transport Economist (2),              S               S
                                             Financial Specialist (1),
                                             Railway Engineering (1),
                                             Consultant (1) and Railway
                                             Financial Specialist (1)
              07/10/1995                1    Railway Specialist (1)                S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/22/1996                8    Railway Specialist (1),               S               S
                                             Consultant (1) Transport
                                             Economist, (1) Economist
                                             (1), Financial Analyst (1),
                                             Social Specialist (1),
                                             Safeguards Specialist (1),
                                             and Engineer (1)
              03/18/1996                1    Railway Specialist (1)                S               S
              07/15/1996                4    Resettlement Specialist (1),          S               S
                                             Transport Specialist (1) and
                                             Transport Economist (2)




 Supervision

              03/18/1997                4    Transport Economist (1),              S               S
                                             Financial Specialist (1),
                                             Transport Specialist (1), and
                                             Railway Specialist (1)
              10/28/1997                4    Transport Economist (1),              S               S
                                             Financial Specialist (1), Sector
                                             Coordinator (1), and Railway
                                             Specialist (1)
              05/08/1998                3    Transport Economist (1), Sector       U               S
                                             Coordinator (1), and Railway
                                             Specialist (1)
              11/11/1998                3    Transport Economist (1), Sector       U               S
                                             Coordinator (1), and Railway
                                             Specialist (1)
              06/17/1999                1    Transport Economist (1)               S               S
              09/14/1999                3    Engineer (1), Transport Sector        S               S
                                             Coord (1), and Sr.Railway




                                              - 39 -

                                            Specialist (1)


               09/08/2000              4    Engineer (1), Financial               U    S
                                            Analyst/Sect (1), Institution
                                            Specialist (1), and Land
                                            Resettlement Specialist (1)
               05/10/2001              3    Engineer (1), Financial/              S    S
                                            Restructuring Specialist (1), and
                                            Land/Institutional Specialist (1)
               12/11/2001              3    Engineer/Implementation               U    S
                                            Speciaist (1), Financial
                                            /Restructuring Specialist (1), and
                                            Financial Specialist (1)
               06/25/2002              3    Construction/Procurement              U    U
                                            Specialist (1), Financial
                                            Specialist (1), and Restructuring
                                            Specialist (1)
               11/01/2002              1    Infrastructure Engineer (1)           U    U
               6/18/2003               3    Financial/Restructing                 U    U
                                            Specialist(1); Transport
                                            Specialist (1); Infrastructure
                                            Engineer (1)
               6/14/2004               1    Infrastructure Engineer (1)           U    U
               11/08/2004              1    Infrastructure Engineer (1)           U    U

 ICR
               4/ 2005                2      Engineer (1), and                    U    U
                                             Economist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           127.9                              503.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 26.5                              144.0
  Supervision                           99.7                            1,234.8
  ICR                                     5.2                              25.9
  Total                                259.3                            1,260.7




                                            - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia. World Bank Report No. 13988-IND. February 27, 1995.

Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia. World Bank Report No. 16691-IND. June 13, 1997.

Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Indonesia, Railway Efficiency Project. World Bank Report No.
15646-IND. October 17, 1996.

Loan Agreement (Railway Efficiency Project) between Republic of Indonesia and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. Loan Number 4106

Project Agreement (Railway Efficiency Project) between International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and Perusahaan Umum Kereta API (PERUMKA). Loan Number 4106.

Project Completion Report. Railway Technical Assistance Project. Loan No. 2891-IND. World Bank
Report No. 13194-IND. January 19, 1995.

World Bank Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports (1995 - 2004).




                                                  - 43 -

                                                                                                                                                                                      110°13'

                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                   SUMATERA                                                                                                                                         RAILWAY NETWORK
                                                              J a v a                                     S e a                                                                JAWA

                                                                                                                                                                      JAKARTA-BANDUNG CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT

                                                                                                                                                                      LOCOMOTIVE UNIT EXCHANGE SYSTEM
                                          Merak
                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES
                                                                   JAKARTA
                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                      Bekasi
                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROADS
                                                                             Manggarai             Cikampek
                                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)


                                                                     Bogor             Purwakarta
                                                                                                                                                         Cirebon
                                                                                                  Padalarang

                                                                                                       Bandung
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Semarang
                                                                                                        Gedebage




          7°28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7°28'




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yogyakarta




                                   I N D I A N
                                   O C E A N




                                                                PHILIPPINES
                                        BRUNEI                              Pacific Ocean

                        M A L AY S I A
               SUMATERA

                        SINGAPORE
                                       KALIMANTAN                                                                                                                                            0  20  40   60    80 Kilometers
                                                     SULAWESI
                                                                                   IRIAN JAYA                                                                                                                                              IBRD

                                 J a v a S e a                                                                                                                                               0     20        40          60 Miles
                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
JULY                                                I N D O N E S I A                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                27873R
                                                BALI                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
    2005                       JAWA                             TIMOR-LESTE                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

           Indian Ocean    Area of Map                                        AUSTRALIA                                                                                               110°13'

                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 27874R

95°                                        100°                                                                                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                BRUNEI                                                Pacific Ocean

                                                                                  M A L AY S I A
                                                                         SUMATERA

                                                                                  SINGAPORE
                                                                                              KALIMANTAN

                                                                                                                 SULAWESI
 5°                                                         5°                                                                                                IRIAN JAYA

                                                                                           J a v a S e a
                                                                                                                 I N D O N E S I A
                                                                                                         BALI
                                                                 Area of Map
                                                                                           JAWA                                     TIMOR-LESTE

                                                                   Indian Ocean                                                                            AUSTRALIA
                                 Belawan

                            Medan                                                                           105°

                                                           M A L A Y S I A



                                                                                 SINGAPORE
                                                  Rantauprapat

                                                                                                           Bintan
        Nias


 0°                                                                                                                                                                   0°

     I N D I A N                                 Padang Panjang                                                                       J a v a S e a
     O C E A N                                         Sawahlunto

                                           Padang
                                                                                                                        Bangka
                       Siberut




                                                                                                             Palembang

                                                                                                                                                            Belitung
                  INDONESIA
                                                                            Tanjung Enim
         RAILWAY NETWORK
                  SUMATERA
 5°                                                                                                                                                                   5°

                                                                                                                     Tanjung Karang
                   SELECTED CITIES

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   RAILROADS

                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                  JAWA




                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
       0       100      200       300     400KILOMETERS                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


       0            100             200          300 MILES
95°                                        100°                                                             105°

                                                                                                                                                                 JULY 2005

