Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4106 IND
                             Project Agreement
                        (Railway Efficiency Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        PERUSAHAAN UMUM KERETA API
                          Dated January 15, 1997
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4106 IND
                           PROJECT  AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  January 15, 1997 , between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM KERETA API
(PERUMKA).
     WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred five million Dollars ($105,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that PERUMKA agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and PERUMKA, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be relent to PERUMKA on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS PERUMKA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
Page  2
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) PERUMKA declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B, C, D and
E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and PERUMKA shall otherwise agree, PERUMKA
shall carry out Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts B, C, D
and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) PERUMKA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts B, C, D and
E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, PERUMKA shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
               PERUMKA, a plan for the future operation of Parts B,
               C, D, and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with PERUMKA on said plan.
     Section 2.04. PERUMKA shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PERUMKA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) PERUMKA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts B,
C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PERUMKA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts
B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by PERUMKA of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PERUMKA
     Section 3.01. PERUMKA shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and railway
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. PERUMKA shall at all times operate and maintain its
Page  3
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and railway
practices.
     Section 3.03. PERUMKA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) PERUMKA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  PERUMKA shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each Financial Year,
               including separate records in respect of Parts B, C,
               D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PERUMKA
shall produce, for each of its Financial Years after its Financial Year
ending on December 31, 1996, funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less than 20% of the annual average of PERUMKA's capital expendi-
tures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous
year and the following year and, for each of its Financial Years after
its Financial Year ending on December 31, 2000, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual average of
PERUMKA's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred,
for that year, the previous year and the following year.
     (b)  Before September 30 in each of its Financial Years, PERUMKA
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by PERUMKA and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth
in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following
Financial Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review
upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that PERUMKA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for PERUMKA's Financial Years
covered by such review, PERUMKA shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure
or levels of its tariffs for commercial services, controlling costs,
improving productivity and developing new services or discontinuing
unprofitable services) in order to meet such requirements.
     Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PERUMKA
shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of PERUMKA for the
Financial Year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
Page  4
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements of PERUMKA for any
Financial Year ending after December 31, 1996.
     Section 4.04.  PERUMKA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not
later than September 30, 1997, a proposal for the revaluation of
PERUMKA's assets in accordance with international accounting standards
and, not later than December 31, 1997, carry out such revaluation
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 4.05. For the purposes of Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.05 of
this Agreement:
     (a)  The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
          (i)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to transport
               operations, Public Service Obligations compensation
               payments, track maintenance payments and net non-
               operating income; and
         (ii)  the sum of all expenses related to railway transport
               operations, including administration, adequate main-
               tenance, track access charges and taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation
               and other non-cash operating charges), and debt service
               requirements.
     (b)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
          (i)  revenues from all sources other than those related to
               operations; and
         (ii)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
               incurred in the generation of revenues in (i) above.
     (c)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt.
     (d)  The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
incurred on account of PERUMKA's fixed assets, including rolling stock
and replacement of capital equipment related to railway operations.
     (e)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PERUMKA maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
     (f)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or
for the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into.
     (g)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
          (i)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
               operations adjusted to take account of PERUMKA's
               rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of
               debt even though they were not in effect during the
               twelve-month period to which such revenues relate
               and net non-operating income; and
         (ii)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
               including administration, adequate maintenance,
               track access charges, taxes and payments in lieu
               of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation,
               other non-cash operating charges and interest and
               other charges on debt.
Page  5
     (h)  Whenever for the purposes of Sections 4.02 or 4.03 of this
Agreement it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtain-
able for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                                ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
PERUMKA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall
promptly notify PERUMKA thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     For PERUMKA:
          Perusahaan Umum Kereta Api
          Jalan Perintis Kemerdekaan No. 1
          Bandung 40117
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               Q DIRUTKA                28263 DIRUTKA BD
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of PERUMKA, or by PERUMKA on behalf of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the President Director or
such other person or persons as the President Director shall designate
in writing, and PERUMKA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Page  6
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                         PERUSAHAAN UMUM KERETA API
                         By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Page  7
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature,
and costing $100,000 equivalent or less, in the aggregate, may with
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equi-
valent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
                           Implementation Program
1.   PERUMKA shall maintain throughout the period of Project implemen-
tation, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and other
resources acceptable to the Bank:
     (a)  a Project Management Unit (PMUP) to manage the technical
implementation of Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the
Project; and
     (b)  three Project Implementation Units (PIUs), each to carry out
one of the following activities under the Project:
          (i)  Jakarta-Bandung corridor development (Part B of the
               Project) and track upgrading and maintenance moder-
               nization (Part C of the Project);
         (ii)  locomotive maintenance modernization (Part D of the
               Project); and
        (iii)  institutional strengthening (Part E (1), (2) and (3)
               of the Project).
2.   PERUMKA shall:
     (a)  prepare, and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank for review
and comment, not later than September 30 in each year commencing
September 30, 1997, its draft annual corporate plan and associated
annual core investment plan, prepared taking into account its financial
situation, updated traffic and revenue forecasts, operational
efficiency, available rolling stock and other pertinent factors; and
     (b)  thereafter, finalize and carry out said plan, taking into
account the comments of the Bank thereon.
3.   For purposes of carrying out the resettlement and rehabilitation of
Affected Persons under Part B of the Project, PERUMKA shall:
     (a)  implement the Resettlement Plan in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and
     (b)  prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank an evaluation
report promptly upon completion of the resettlement and rehabilitation
of Affected Persons as described in the Resettlement Plan.
4.   PERUMKA shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of Parts B, C, D and E (1),
(2) and (3) of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
and PERUMKA's progress in attaining performance goals acceptable to the
Bank, which indicators and goals shall be initially those set forth in
the Annex to this Schedule 2;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than September 30 in each year,
commencing September 30, 1997, a report integrating the results of
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project during the
twelve month period immediately preceding the date of such report
and in attaining the agreed performance goals for such period, and
setting forth: (i) the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve
months immediately following such date and (ii) if necessary, based
on PERUMKA's progress in attaining said agreed performance goals,
proposed revisions to such goals for the two consecutive twelve
month periods immediately following such date; and
Page  9
     (c)  review with the Bank, within thirty days following the
submission of the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above, or
at such later date as the Bank shall request, said report, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of Parts B, C, D and E (1), (2) and (3) of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof and the revised
performance goals set forth therein, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
5.   PERUMKA shall:
     (a)  maintain its quality assurance unit throughout the period
of Project implementation with terms of reference, membership,
staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b)  strengthen and expand the capabilities of the quality
assurance unit in the environmental, occupational health and safety
areas in accordance with a training and development program satis-
factory to the Bank.
6.   PERUMKA shall:
     (a)  carry out the Environmental Management Program in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and shall furnish to the Bank for prior
approval any modification thereof; and
     (b)  ensure that contracts procured for the delivery of civil
works under Part B of the Project incorporate appropriate environ-
mental mitigation measures in accordance with the Environmental
Management Program.
7.   PERUMKA shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank
not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 1998:
     (a)  a report on the functioning of and the forecast and actual
compensation received during the preceding Financial Year pursuant to
the Public Service Obligations compensation mechanism established by
the Borrower in accordance with paragraph B. 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement;
     (b)  a report on the functioning of and the forecast and actual
compensation received during the preceding Financial Year pursuant to
the rail infrastructure maintenance and operation compensation
mechanism established by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph
B. 3 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  a report on the functioning of and the forecast and actual
payments made during the preceding Financial Year pursuant to the
track access charges system established by the Borrower in accordance
with paragraph B. 4 (a) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
