                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                            APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 09/23/2013                                        Report No.: 82514
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P084078                  Original Project Name: National
                                              Agricultural Technology Project
Country: Bangladesh                           Project ID: P133251
Project Name: National Agricultural Technology Project - Additional Financing
Task Team Leader: Ousmane Seck
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 15,         Estimated Board Date: November 30, 2013
2013
Managing Unit: SASDA                          Lending Instrument:
Sector: Agricultural extension and research (50%);Crops (30%);Animal production
(20%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (65%);Rural policies and institutions (35%)
SPF Amount (US$m):               0
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                        0.00
         Free-standing Cofinancing Trust Fund                           23.72
         Financing Gap                                                   0.00
                                                                        23.72
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                         Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                   Yes [ ]      No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The Project Development Objective for the Additional Financing would remain the same
as under NATP-I. It is to improve the effectiveness of the national agricultural
technology system in Bangladesh. This is to be achieved by enabling the national
agricultural technology system to support: (i) high priority, pluralistic, participatory and
demand-led agricultural research; (ii) decentralized, participatory, demand-led and
knowledge-based approach for agricultural extension; and (iii) improved post-harvest
technology and management practices for selected supply chains of high value
commodities. The additional financing will contribute to achieving that objective by
deepening and scaling up best agricultural technology packages and practices under
NATP-I to 6 more districts.

3. Project Description
The additional financing will call for a Level-1 restructuring of NATP-I-1 since it
triggers 3 safeguard policies which were not originally triggered in the NATP PAD and
ISDS. It will involve (a) aligning the closing date of NATP-I to match with that of the
grant additional financing (September 30, 2016); (b) integrating the baseline and target
values of performance indicators of the grant into the Results Framework of NATP-I;
slightly adjusting the number of intermediate indicators to be limited to the most relevant
ones and upgrading those target values considered to be underestimated based on current
achievements; (c) reallocating Credit proceeds by category of expenditure to reflect
current NATP-I needs; (d) including an additional expenditure category for "unallocated"
to ensure uninterrupted implementation of activities between completion of phase-1 and
initiation of phase-2. The restructuring will also formally acknowledge the environmental
reclassification of NATP-I as a category "B" project.

 Component 1: Agricultural Research Support (US$9.10 million) The main objective of
this component is to upscale the Competitive Grant Program (CGP) and Sponsored
Public Goods Research (SPGR) activities that were initiated under the NATP-I. This
component will have national coverage but assign particular emphasis to coastal zones
and hill districts that are more prone to weather vagaries and that have proportionately
higher populations of poor and vulnerable people. It will build upon the pluralistic
agricultural research structure developed by the NATP-I which employed a number of
participatory and demand driven research methodologies. The research support
component will help develop and refine technologies that bridge yield gaps and diversify
production, including the introduction of high value commodities and low-cost, high-
impact post-harvest technologies and marketing services.

 Competitive Grant Program: The project will support short-term competitive grant
subprojects which focus on on-farm, applied, and adaptive research for yield and income
maximization. The activities will continue to be implemented by KGF, following the
same funding guidelines as developed under NATP-I. Based on the successful
implementation and institutional arrangement of this program with KGF, the grant will be
used to further streamline the involvement of NARS institutions, universities, NGOs and
private sector.

  Sponsored Public Goods Research (SPGR): SPGR sub-projects are designed to ensure a
steady flow of usable technologies as well as intermediate research for future needs. The
existing institutional and implementation arrangements prevailing under NATP-I
(including partnerships with CGIAR Centers) will be replicated under the grant.
Enhancing Institutional Efficiency: The grant will support a limited program of skills
development through in-country training and a selected number of short-term training
abroad. This training involves the development of the skills and research capacity that are
specifically needed to administer and supervise the SPGR and CGP sub-projects.

  Component 2: Agriculture Extension Support (US$11.44 million)
  The objective of the component is to promote access to appropriate technology packages
(including quality seeds and small equipment) and enhance their adoption by
beneficiaries through a decentralized, demand-led extension service that is knowledge
based and accountable to farmers. To achieve this objective, the component will focus on
better targeting, formation and strengthening of village level Common Interest Groups
(CIGs). In the long term, the CIGs will form vertically and horizontally integrated
networks of producer organizations to negotiate for quality extension service delivery and
improved market access. The activities are categorized under the following three main
activities: (i) organizing the demand for services by mobilizing, strengthening, and
vertically integrating farmer institutions; (ii) managing knowledge, information and
technology transfer; and (iii) improving delivery of extension services. The component
will be implemented by Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), the Department of
Livestock Services (DLS), and the Department of Fisheries (DOF).

 Component 3: Development of Supply Chains (US$2.17 million)
 The objective of the component is to increase and diversify sources of income for
project beneficiaries. The component builds on lessons learnt from the supply chain
development technology packages for selected high value agro-commodities piloted
under NATP-I. The value added for the farmers is expected from reduction of losses,
better prices for well sorted and graded products, stronger negotiation power due to
enhanced information, improved marketing skills. Integrating transport companies into
the value-chain will increase efficiency. A prototype IT system will test how such actors
can be linked to the supply chain network. The component will develop Commodity
Collection Marketing Centers, pilot demonstration of post-harvest technologies (e.g.
packaging, processing etc.) and capacity building of farmers, traders and entrepreneurs. It
will further promote linkages of beneficiaries with traders, processors, transporters and
other private service providers. The supply chain development component will continue
to be implemented by Hortex Foundation.

 Component 4: Project Management and Coordination (US$1.0 million)
 The objective of the component is to ensure efficient coordination and smooth
implementation of the project as a whole. The implementation arrangements for Project
Management and Coordination will rely on the arrangements currently prevailing under
NATP-I. In particular, the PCU is responsible for consolidating the project's annual
budget and work plan based on inputs from different implementing units and to make
recommendation through the PMC for approval by the PSC. It will also ensure
compliance with the financial management, procurement, environmental and social
safeguards, governance and accountability and overall monitoring and evaluation
requirements.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
All the districts under the Additional Financing experience normal flooding from 30 cm
to 2.5 m during the monsoon season (June to October). There are also occasional
aggravated floods and droughts during winter. Rajbari, Madaripur, Shariatpur, Faridpur,
Magura, and Sirajgonj Upazilas are affected by slight to moderate drought during the
Rabi season (winter season) while parts of Jhinaidah experience severe drought. The
Bhola Districts is prone to cyclones and tidal surges ranging from less than one meter in
some parts and above one meter in others.
  The project may be implemented in areas where Indigenous People live. A Social
Management Framework will be prepared by May 15, 2013 to include an Indigenous
People's Planning Framework. Given that the Government of Bangladesh prefers to
address IPs as tribal or ethnic minorities, the above mentioned framework may be titled
Tribal Peoples/Ethnic Minorities Development Framework based on further discussion
and agreement with the implementing agency. The project does not anticipate land
acquisition or displacement (physical or economic)
  of people for any of the project activities; therefore it will not trigger OP 4.12,
Involuntary Resettlement. The SMF will clearly mention that no land acquisition and/or
displacement will either be required or allowed for any of the sub-projects. Should the
need for community infrastructure like tube-wells arise, these will be installed on the
basis of mutually agreed arrangements between cooperatives and communities on
voluntary and mutually beneficial terms. The SMF will elaborate and explain these
arrangements (including documentation and monitoring) after adequate consultation with
the communities. The SMF will include (among others) a screening procedure for the
sub-projects, guidelines for conducting social impact assessments, eligibility criteria for
all affected entities under the relevant World Bank policies, a consultation and
communication strategy, implementing arrangements for the above mentioned plans and
activities, guidelines for a grievance mechanism and a monitoring and evaluation
framework, as well as disclosure procedures.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Ms Yuka Makino (SASDC)
   Ms Sabah Moyeen (SASDS)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                               Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                          X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
NA
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The key environmental issues that will need to be addressed by the project are: (1)
possible depletion of groundwater due to irrigation; (2) saline water intrusion in
groundwater and surface water in select sites; (3) improvement of soil quality; (4)
improvement of water quality particularly in ponds and water bodies; and (5) Decrease in
use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers. Since some of the target sites have high level of
groundwater depletion, technologies and strategies that improve the efficiency of
irrigation and/or reduce the dependence on groundwater, as well as, enable the recharge
of groundwater should be included in the design of the project. The potential adverse
environmental impacts on human populations or environmentally important areas are less
adverse than those of Category "A" projects, site-specific with no irreversible impacts
and mitigation measures can be designed more readily. The environmental safeguards
that are triggered are Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01 and Pest Management OP
4.09. Since the project interventions are site specific, the EA includes an Environmental
Management Framework (EMF) with clear guidelines on the institutional mechanism to
implement environmental management under the project.

  OP 4.09, Pest Management is triggered. The project is only expected to have minor use
for nationally approved pesticides and there are no significant issues of pest management
and pesticide use to be addressed in subprojects. However, even with this situation,
NATP –AF project will continue to promote green agriculture technologies that were
initiated under NATP-I. This includes: (i) Integrated Pest Management (IPM) such as the
use of pheromone traps and light traps, Brachonet; (ii) balanced fertilizer use to reduce
the dependence on fertilizers; and (iii) composting. It will also arrange training of
pesticides dealers, and initiate balanced fertilizer use to reduce the dependence on
fertilizers. This will be done as much as possible throughout project activities especially
through training activities which will be discussed and agreed during project
implementation. Some project activities will already support IPM through research or
technology dissemination. Since the project interventions are site specific, the EA
includes an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) with clear guidelines on the
institutional mechanism to implement environmental management under the project.

  The project may be implemented in areas where Indigenous People live. As such the
World Bank's OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples has been triggered for the project.
Although there is very little concentration of tribal people in the NATP -AF districts, the
project authority in the district and upazilla will ensure that where such communities are
found, they are identified, consulted and are given an opportunity to participate and
benefit from the project. A Social Management Framework has been prepared and
includes an Indigenous People's Planning Framework. Given that the Government of
Bangladesh prefers to address IPs as tribal or ethnic minorities, the above mentioned
framework is titled Tribal Peoples/Ethnic Minorities Development Framework. As part
of the TPDF, the project will conduct an assessment at the beginning in each selected
Upazila by consultation with the extension agency officials and communities. In case
even a small concentration of 20 or more tribal household involved in any agricultural
occupations (crops, livestock, fisheries) and 50 or more in an UP, the particular UP and
village will be included on a priority basis in the project. The process will involve: (i)
making a village wise list of TP households with the name of household head, ownership
of land, tenancy, main and secondary occupations and likely involvement in the NATP -
AF activities under crop, fisheries, livestock, SCDC; (ii) assessing probable positive and
negative impacts of any sub project proposed in the UP level micro plan; (iii) suggesting
mitigating measures; and (iv) making arrangements for M&E


 The project does not anticipate land acquisition or displacement (physical or economic)
of people for any of the project activities; therefore it will not trigger OP 4.12
"Involuntary Resettlement" The SMF clearly mentions that no land acquisition and/or
displacement will either be required or allowed for any of the sub-projects. Should the
need for community infrastructure like buried pipes for irrigation purposes arise, these
will be installed on the basis of mutually agreed arrangements between cooperatives and
communities on voluntary and mutually beneficial terms as reflected in the SMF.

  Mainstreaming gender equity and empowerment is already a focus area in the NATP -
AF and women are treated a special target group in all project components. A Gender
Assessment Framework (GAF) is provided as part of the SMF to help analyze gender
issues during the preparation of the sub projects. The findings and recommendations from
the gender analysis during project planning and feedback from beneficiaries during
implementation will be discussed thoroughly to determine the need for further action.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
NA

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
The EA assesses the capabilities of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the
implementing institutions to (a) screen subprojects, (b) obtain the necessary expertise to
carry out EA, (c) review all findings and results of the EA for individual subprojects, (d)
ensure implementation of mitigations measures (including, where applicable, an
Environmental Management Plan), and (e) monitor environmental conditions during
project implementation. The ongoing NATP project actively incorporates and promotes
food safety and improved water quality in aquaculture, composting and biogas, Integrated
Pest Management (IPM) such as the use of pheromone traps and light traps, and the
training of pesticides dealers, balanced fertilizer use to reduce the dependence on
fertilizers, and Alternate Wet and Drying (AWD) technologies to promote efficient water
use. The project has also developed a monitoring mechanism to determine the positive
impacts of the various technologies. The EMF builds upon what has already been
developed under NATP. Emphasis is put on the institutionalization of the screening and
monitoring of the activities that are being implemented by each of the departments.

 The SMF will include (among others) a screening procedure for the sub-projects,
guidelines for conducting social impact assessments, eligibility criteria for all affected
entities under the relevant World Bank policies, a consultation and communication
strategy, implementing arrangements for the above mentioned plans and activities,
guidelines for a grievance mechanism and a monitoring and evaluation framework, as
well as disclosure procedures. Given the likely impacts of the project on women, the
SMF will focus on inclusion and other gender aspects of the project to scale up its
benefits for women and ensure their meaningful participation in the proposed activities.
The SMF will also focus on the inclusion and participation of marginalized farmers,
share-croppers and vulnerable communities/people.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are (1) staff in the Department of Agricultural Extension, Fisheries,
and Livestock and the various Agricultural Research Organizations; and (2) the
community members in the targeted upazilas (Rajbari, Madaripur, Shariatpur, Faridpur,
Magura, Sirajgonj, Jhinaidah and Bhola. Site visits and consultations with the community
were carried out in Golpagonj, Madaripur, Khulna, Barisal, Magura, Faridpur, Sirajgang
and Bhola areas. The EMF has been disclosed on March 4, 2013 on the National
Agriculture and Technology website and placed in each of the target upazila offices. The
key stakeholders are (1) staff in the Department of Agricultural Extension, Fisheries, and
Livestock and the various Agricultural Research Organizations; and (2) the community
members in the targeted upazilas (Rajbari, Madaripur, Shariatpur, Faridpur, Magura,
Sirajgonj, Jhinaidah and Bhola. Site visits and consultations with the community were
carried out in Golpagonj, Madaripur, Khulna, Barisal, Magura, Faridpur, Sirajgang and
Bhola areas. The EMF has been disclosed on March 4, 2013 on the National Agriculture
and Technology website and placed in each of the target upazila offices.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                    Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                    12/28/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                03/04/2013
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                 04/18/2013
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                    Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                    03/10/2013
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                03/17/2013
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                 05/31/2013
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   N/A
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                                  N/A
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                              N/A
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                               N/A
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)          Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          Yes
credit/loan?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                     Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                                    N/A
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or   N/A
SM? Are PMP requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as                  Yes
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector        Yes
Manager review the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed   N/A
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the                 Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the                   Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                                Name                             Date
Task Team Leader:                    Mr Ousmane Seck                                  05/16/2013
Environmental Specialist:            Ms Yuka Makino                                   05/16/2013
Social Development Specialist        Ms Sabah Moyeen
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:      Ms Zia Al Jalaly                                  05/17/2013
  Comments: cleared subject to:no involuntary land acquisition resetlement,relocation.IPDF/SMF
  will be disclosed in info-shop on May31,2013and re-disclosed localty. Pl follow disclosure
  procedures
Sector Manager:                       Mr Simeon Kacou Ehui                              09/22/2013
  Comments:
