                                                             DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                                                                  (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT                Washington, D.C. 20433     Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                                            May 20, 2014


            Secretary Md. Mejbahuddin
            Economic Relations Division
            Ministry of Finance
            Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
            Dhaka, Bangladesh

            Dear Secretary Mejbahuddin:

                                Re: National Agricultural Technology Project (Credit No. 4386-BD)
                                            (Amendment to the Financinz Areement)

                    We refer to the Financing Agreement dated February 28, 2008, between the International
            Development Association (the Association) and the People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Recipient) for
            the above-referenced Project, as amended to date. We also refer to your letters dated June 30, 2013 and
            September 23, 2013 requesting a restructuring of the Project in connection with the additional USAID
            grant co-financing for the Project.

                       Accordingly, the Association hereby proposes to amend the Financing Agreement as
            follows:

            1.       The objective of the Project stated in Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement shall be amended to
            read as follows:

                       "The objective of the Project is to improve the effectiveness of the national agricultural
                       technology system, as measured by increase in agricultural productivity and farm income in
                       selected districts."

            2.         Section I.D of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:

                       "D.    Safeguards

                       1.      The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
                       provisions of the EMF, the SMF and the relevant Safeguard Assessments and Plans.

                       2.      Whenever an additional or revised Safeguard Assessment and Plan shall be required for
                       any proposed Project activity in accordance with the provisions of the EMF and the SMF, as the
                       case may be, the Recipient shall:

                               (a)      prior to the commencement of such activity, proceed to have such Safeguard
                                        Assessment and Plan: (i) prepared in accordance with the provisions of the EMF
                                        and the SMF, as the case may be; (ii) furnished to the World Bank for review and
                                        approval; and (iii) thereafter adopted and disclosed as approved by the World
                                        Bank, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank; and

                               (b)      thereafter take such measures as shall be necessary or appropriate to ensure
                                        compliance with the requirements of such Safeguard Assessment and Plan.


                                             RCA 248423. LA WUI 64145 Q FAX (202) 477-6391
Secretary Md. Mejbahuddin                      -2-




       3.      The Recipient shall not amend, abrogate or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated or
       waived, the EMF, the SMF or any Safeguard Assessments and Plans, unless the World Bank has
       provided its prior approval thereof in writing, and the Recipient has complied with the same
       consultation and disclosure requirements as applicable to the original adoption of the said
       instruments.

       4.       Without limitation on its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the Recipient
       shall collect, compile and submit to the World Bank on a bi-annual basis (or such other frequency
       as may be agreed with the World Bank) consolidated reports on the status of compliance with the
       EMF, the SMF and the Safeguard Assessments and Plans, giving details of: (a) measures taken in
       furtherance of the said instruments; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere
       with the smooth implementation of the said measures; and (c) remedial measures taken or
       required to be taken to address such conditions.

       5.      In the event of any conflict between the provisions of any of the EMF, the SMF or the
       Safeguard Assessments and Plans, and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this
       Agreement shall prevail."

3.       A new Part E shall be added to Section I of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement to read as
follows:

       "E.     Anti-Corruption

       1.      The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
       provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
       2.       Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph I above, the Recipient shall: (a) carry
       out the Governance and Accountability Action Plan in accordance with its terms; and (b) without
       limitation on its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, furnish to the Association on a
       six monthly basis a report on the status of implementation of the said plan."
Secretary Md. Mejbahuddin                      -3-




4.       The table set out in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement shall be amended
to read as follows:

                                                                              Percentage of
                                           Amount of the                      Expenditures
                                           Credit Allocated                  to be Financed
              Category                   (Expressed in SDR)                (Inclusive of taxes)


 (1) Works, goods, services,                16,146,132.73             74% for payments made on or
     training and Operating                                              before June 30, 2012
     Costs

 (2) CGP Grants under                        2,250,000.00                         77%
     Part L.A of the Project

 (3) SPGR Grants under                       5,980,000.00                         72%
     Part 1.B of the Project

 (4) Refund of Project                         171,701.77          Amount payable pursuant to
     Preparation Advance                                           Section 2.07 of the General
                                                                   Conditions
 (5)

       (a) Works, goods, local               8,852,165.50             73% for payments made on or
           consultants' services,                                          after July 1, 2012
           and Operating Costs


       (b) Training and foreign              6,000,000.00             77% for payments made on or
           consultants' services                                           after July 1, 2012

 TOTAL                                         39,400,000


5. The following definitions in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement shall be amended to read as
follows:

           'Environmental Management Framework" means the Environmental Management Framework
          (EMF) Report for NATP Phase - I Additional Financing (disclosed earlier in the name of
          Agricultural Research and Technology Support (ARTS) Project), incorporating an environmental
          management framework for the Project, furnished to the Association on December 9, 2007,
          revised on April 18, 2013, as such Environmental Management Framework may be amended
          from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Association."

           'Social Management Framework" means the Social Assessment and Social Management
          Fram.ework furnished to the Association on December 9, 2007, and revised in May 2013 to
Secretary Md. Mejbahuddin                      -4-


       incorporate a TPMF, as such Social Assessment and Social Management Framework may be
       amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Association."

6.      The following new definitions shall be added to the Appendix to the Financing Agreement in the
relevant alphabetical order, to read as follows:

        'Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
       Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15,
       2006 and revised in January 2011."

       "'Governance and Accountability Action Plan" means the plan prepared by the Recipient and
       endorsed by the Association, dated March 14, 2013, setting forth actions and measures to be
       taken by the Recipient to ensure integrity, transparency and accountability in the implementation
       of the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Financing."

       "'LEA" means each of the limited environment assessments to be prepared under the Project in
       accordance with the EMF, pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each such
       assessment in form and substance agreed between the Recipient and the World Bank, and
       defining details of potential environmental risks and adverse impacts associated with the
       implementation of Project activities, together with an environmental management plan defining
       measures to manage such risks and impacts, and "LEAs" means, collectively, all such
       assessments."

       "Safeguard Assessment and Plan" means any LEA, SIA, and/or TPDP, prepared or to be prepared
       by the Recipient in accordance with the EMF and the SMF and the provisions of Section I.D of
       Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and "Safeguard Assessments and Plans" means, collectively, all
       such assessments and plans.

       "SIA" means each social impact assessment to be prepared under the Project in accordance with
       the SMF, pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each such assessment in form
       and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, and defining details of potential social risks and
       adverse impacts associated with the implementation of Project activities, together with measures
       to manage such risks and impacts.

       "TPDP" means each Tribal Peoples Development Plan to be prepared under the Project in
       accordance with the SMF and TPMF, pursuant to Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
       each such plan in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, and containing measures to
       mitigate any adverse impacts of Project activities on tribal peoples and reinforcing and promoting
       any available development opportunities for tribal peoples under the Project, with details of, inter
       alia, baseline data, including an analysis of cultural characteristics, social structure and economic
       activities of tribal peoples; mitigation measures and activities; and the implementation schedule
       and responsibilities, and "TPDPs" means, collectively, all such plans.

        "TPMF" means the Tribal Peoples Management Framework, incorporated within the SMF, aimed
        at enhancing the participation of tribal peoples in the Project, setting the guiding principles and
        acceptable standards and procedures for the screening of Project activities and the identification,
        assessment and mitigation of any potential Project-related impact on tribal peoples, and providing
        for the preparation of TPDPs, as such Tribal Peoples Management Framework may be amended
        from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the World Bank.
  Secretary Md. Mejbahuddin                      -5-


          All other provisions of the Financing Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

          Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by countersigning, dating, and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter
countersigned by you, the amendments will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.


                                          Sincerely,
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                            Christine E. Kimes
                               Acting Head of the Bangladesh Country Office
                                         For the Country Director




  AGREED:
  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH




  Authorized Representative
  Name: WSM V-1i)tel-P)
  Title: A t. 5ftC-jgX~            Mot~.J~II~r
  Date:______________
