Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9455-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
MARCH 22, 1991
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Region
Thi-s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
l          ~~~~their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00            =  Rs 16.50
Rs 1,000,000      =  US$60.60
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC    -     Alternative Current
BG    -     Broad Gauge
DC    -     Direct Current
DCW   -     Diesel Component Workshop-Patiala (Remanufacturing
Plant for Locomotive Components)
IR    -     Indian Railways
kg    -     kilogram
MG    -     Meter Gauge
mm    -     millimeter
oIS   -     Operations Information System
UTS   -     Ultimate Tensile Strength
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of India: April 1 - March 31



THE WORLD SANK                    OB om            Y
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offict O D,ettv.C..wai
March 22, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India Railway Modernization
and Maintenance Project II (Loan 2210-IN/Credit 1299-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on India Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project II (Loan
2210-IN/Credit 1299-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be discobsed without World Bgank authorization.|



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINT NCE PROJECT II
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
MPOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Paxne No.
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . .  - ................. .                       i
I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .       1
Project Identity  .................                      1
Background  . . . . . . . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . .      I
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . .      1
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . .      2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
Project Results  7 . * . . . . . . . . . * . . . .       7
Project Sustainability  *.. .. . . . . . . . .  .        11
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12
Consulting Services and Training  . . . . . . . . .      12
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . .      13
XI.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROwERS PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .       14
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . T  .      16
Project  Data    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Related Bank Loan and/or Credits  . . . . . . . . .      16
Project Timetable    .. ...       .   .................    17
Loan/Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . ...        18
Project Costs and Financing   .  . . . . . . . . .       19
Project Results   #......          .  99999              20
Status of Covenants   . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . .  22
Use of Bank ResourcEs   . * * . . . . .                  23
ANNEXES       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
1.   Economic
2.   Indian Railways Performance Indicators
3.   Indian Railways Financial Statements
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlY in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-1i-
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCL PROJECT II
(LOAN 2210-INICREDIT 1299-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Railway
Modernization and Maintenance Project II, for which Loan 2210-IN of US$20O
million and Credit 1299-IN of SDR184.7 million (equivalent to US$200 million
at the time of Board approval) were approved on November 16, 1982. The
closing date was extended twice to September 30, 1989, two years behind
schedule. The Loan and Credit Accounts were closed on May 31, 1990 after
being fully disbursed.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III were jointly prepared
by the India Transport and Energy Division (AS4TE) and the Infrastructure
Division, Asia Technical Department, (ASTIN). The Beneficiary, Part II, was
prepared by the Indian Railways (IR).
Preparation had begun in September 1989 and was based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Credit agreements, the supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Beneficiary, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- ii -
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summar,
Obiectives
1.          The objectives were to modernize and improve diesel electric
locomotive maintenance and reliability, improve the tecthology and performance
of the mainline alternative current (AC) electric locomotive, and improve the
operational efficiency of heavy bulk freight movements.
Implementation Experience
2.          There were five project components:
(a)   locomotive and rolling stock maintenance improvement, including
establishment of a diesel component workshop (DCW) at Patiala in
the State of Punjab and acquisition of parts and components for a
unit exchange maintenance system;
(b)   acquisition and testing of modern AC electric locomotive
prototypes, to provide the basis for a new locomotive design;
(c)   construction of high capacity wagons for bulk traffic, using a new
design based on tests of modern bogie prototype'- V
(d)   test eguipment, technical assistance, and trair ag for DCV; and
(e)   test equipment, technical assistance, and training for bogie tests
and other studies.
3.          At the outset, negotiations were delayed over a year, mainly
because of the Borrower's failure to make satisfactory progress in
implementing an operations information system (OIS). The project became
effective five months after negotiations (para. 4.4). Implementation required
two extensions, resulting in a total of seven years from negotiations to
closing.
4.          At closing, DCW-Patiala (except for the locomotive remanufacturing
facility) was fully operational. All parts and components for the unit
exchange maintenance system had been acquired except for a small number of
3/ A bogie comprises the wheels, axles, and frame that support each end of
the wagon. The tests were intended to replace the existing CASNUB
bogie with one which was lighter weight and less rigid.



X iii -
traction motors. Eighteen prototype electric locomotives had been purchased
and tested as agreed, but up to now the test results have not let to any
decisions by IR to acquire and manufacture a new design of electric
locomotives. Procurement of wagon bogies for testing was delayed because of
technical disagreements between the Bank and the tests had not been completed
at loan/credit closing. The new-design, high capacity wagons were not
acquired (para. 5.6), highcapacity wagon component was therefore redefined,
and half of the funds were reallocated for materials.
5.          Depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR under the IDA credit
created savings of US$40 million, which financed priority items consistent
with the original project objectives and description, and US$136 million was
reallocated (para. 5.10).
Results
6.          Project results have equaled or exceeded appraisal expectations at
DCW-Patiala, for the implementation of the unit exchange maintenance system,
and for the availability of critical parts and components. Consequently,
locomotives and rolling stock now spend less time in maintenance status and
mc,re time in service (para. 6.2).  Without the project, the pre-existing
maintenance facilities and procedures probably would have been unable to
provide adequate maintenance. IR very likely would be experiencing
deteriorating locomotive and rolling stock availability and reliability,
thereby reducing its capacity for moving goods and passengers.
7.          However, the project failed to achieve its objectives of
introducing modern designs for electric locomotives and high capacity wagons.
Prior to completion of prototype locomotive tests in this project, IR decided
to acquire and test other electric locomotives of a design that had not been
proven in heavy-haul freight services similar to those in India (para. 6.3).
A final choice between the alternative designs has not yet been made.
Sustainability
8.          The successful project components (DCW-Patiala and the unit
exchange system) are likely to maintain an acceptable level of benefits
throughout their economic lives (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.          This project contained complex development objectives such as the
installation of a railway OIS and the introduction of major design changes in
electric locomotives and high capacity wagons. One important lesson is that
agreements on the underlying technical concepts necessary to assure
achievement of project objectives such as the choice of wheel diameter axle
load and rail steel quality should be reached during project preparation and
not left until implementation.
10.         Another important lesson is that, when the hank's development
objectives include such complex technical objectives, the Bank must ensure
that substantial, consistant and continuous consulting services are available



- iv -
during project implamentation both to IR and to the Benk.  In fact, the
objectives of improving IR's locomotive and rolling stock designs are even
more !nportant today than they were ten years ago and therefore should be
included in any future project for IR, but only provided agreement is reached
early in project preparation on the proposed improvements in design of
locomotives and rolling stock.



-I -
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND 14AINTENANCE PROJECT 1I
(LOAN 2210-INICREDIT 1299-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION RE)ORT
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIm
Proiect Identity
P.7oject Name     X  Railway Modernization aud Maintenance Project II
Loan/Credit Number    s  2210-IN/1299-IN
RVP Unit          s  Asia
Country           s  India
Sector            s  Transport
Subsector         :  Railways
Backaround
1.1       The Bank Group has supported the Indian Railways (IR) investment
program since 1949 with 17 operations totaling almost US$2.2 billion. The
first 13 operations had non-project specific formats and focused on financing
part of the foreign exchange requirements of IR's investment program. These
operations supported IR's foreign exchange requirements for the acquisition of
(a) machinery and plant for IR manufacturing units; (b) materials, parts, and
components for manufacture of motive power and rolling stock; and (c)
materials and equipment for line improvements and telecommuni-ations.
1.2       To better respond to IR's needs, there was a departure from this
format in 1979 to more project specific operations, starting with the Railway
Modernization and Maintenance Project (Credit 844-1N). That project supported
the urgently needed rationalization and modernization of IR's workshops and
the establishment of a wheel and axle plant.  Support for facilities
rationalization and modernization continued under the recently closed Railway
Modernization and Maintenance II Project (Loan 2210-IN/Credit 1299-IN), and
under the ongoing Railway Electrification and Workshop Modernization Project
(Loan 2417-IN) and Railway Modernization III Project (2935-IN).
Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.3       The objectives of the Railway Modernization and Maintenance II
Project (Modernization II) were to modernize and improve diesel electric
locomotive maintenance and reliability, improve the technology and performance
of IR's mainline AC electric locomotive, and improve the operational
efficiency of IR's heavy bulk freight movements.
1.4       Modernization II included five project components:
(a) locomotive and rolling stock maintenance improvement, including:



-2-
(i)  establishment of a diesel compone-it workshop (DCW) LS Patiala
in the State oi Punjab to reclaim parts and components and
remanufacture diesel electric locomotives; and
(ii) acquisition of parts and components for a unit exchange
maintenance system, together with wheels and axles to meet a
production shortfall within India;
(b)  acauisition and testing of modern AC electric locomotive prototypes
to provide the basis for adopting a new locomotive design to be
manufactured in India under license;
(c)  construction of 11,300 high capacity wagons tor coal and other bulk
traffic, incorporating corrosion resistent steel, roller bearings,
and bogies of modern design based on tests of prototype wagon
bogies financed by the project, in order to improve wagon
reliability, reduce wear and tear on wheels and rail, and allow for
future higher train speeds which would increase the line capacity
of sections with very heavy traffic;
(d)  test equipment, technical assistance, and training for DCW-Patiala;
and
(e) test equipment, technical assistance, and training for bogie tests
and other studies to conserve fuel and improve train operations.
Project Design and Organization
1.5       Identification and Appraisal.  A project was identified in early
1979, but an appraisal mission in June 1979 could not agree on the project
scope. A new project was identified in April 1980 and appraised in January
and February 1981, to be implemented in two phases:
(a)  Phase I, which became this project, Modernization II, and involved
a loan of US$200 million and a credit of SDR 184.7 million; and
(b) Phase II, which became the Railway Electrification and Workshop
Modernization Project (Loan 2417-IN), and invol'ed a loan of
US$685 million.
1.6       A third phase containing a project to support the installation of
an Operations Information System (OIS) was set aside. Ultimately, the Phase I
and II projects were appraised at a total cost of US$2,428 million, with a
total foreign exchange component of US$850 million and Bank support of US$585
million. Both were complex and innovative projects. The conceptual
foundation for both projects was the introduction of new, proven technologies
into aspects of the railway operation where there had been no sigaificant
technological progress during the previous fifteen years or more. Both the
Borrower and the Bank understood the concept and appeared to agree that the
time had come to act. However, initially there was considerable disagreement
about how to proceed with the locomottve and rolling stock modernization, and
most of all, with the installation of OIS.



-3-
1.7       Conditions for Negotiations.  Modernization II originally was
scheduled for negotiations in June 1981, or t.) soon thereafter as satisfactory
progress had been made in several areas. These included the following three
wyhich were cited in the appraisal mission letter and made cor.ditions of
negotiations:
(a)  Development of OIS -  For several years IR had been studying
proposals for installation of an OIS to provide an on-line, real
time computer based information system to control and monitor its
freight and passenger operations. However, several Government
ministries and departments exercised some aspect of control over
the purchase of the necessar -omputing hardware and software and
were reluctant to approve the import of existing, proven equipment
and systems. Instead, they preferred to use the IR requirements as
a catalyst and first example of a domestically based development
effort. However, the Bank believed that domestic development of
OIS would be costly, involve lengthy time delays, and present
excessive technical risks. Thus the first condition of
negotiations was that the Government would give assurances that
Indian licenses and approvals would be forthcoming for importing
the necessary computing hardware and software.
(b)  Financial Performance -  For seven of the nine years prior to 1980-
81, IR failed to meet its dividend on capital-at-charge. The
second condition was that agreement would be reached between the
Government and the Bank on a plan of action and timetable for
implementing key Railway Tariff Inquiry Committee recommendations
to improve IR's financial performance and effectiveness.
(c)  Corporate Plan -  IR had been developing a corporate plan limited
to its manufacturing facilities. The third condition was that IR
would provide the Bank a detailed timetable and terms of reference
for preparation of a comprehensive corporate plan.
1.8       Negotiations of Modernization II were delayed from June 1981 until
September 1982 because of failure to meet the conditions.  At negotiations, an
understanding was reached on a plan of action for implementation of OIS and
related telecommunications. There were no conditions of effectiveness for
Modernization II. Following Board approval on November 16, 1982,
Modernization II became effective on February 23, 1983, five months after
negotiations.
1.9       The Bank insistence on stringent conditions to promote the
introduction of OAS required actions which were opposed to Government policies
for indigenous development of information systems. This caused substantial
delays in project negotiations and loan effectiveness.
1.10      The wisdom of including the OIS conditions in the Modernization II
Project and later in the Electrification Project was affirmed in September,
1989, when all Government and IR approvals were received to install OIS first
on Northern Railway and in the future on the other zonal railways.  The
approvals to proceed with OIS came after a redesign of the original system



-4
configuration substantially redu-ed its cost. IR's successful implementation
of an on line, real tin.? computerized passenger reservation system also
encouraged the granting of approvals.
1.3.1     In retrospect, it would appear that the Bank, after taking so
strong a position in favor of OIS as conditions of negotiations and
effectiveness of the Modernization II and Electrification projects, should
have included the implementation of the first phase of the OIS as a project
component.
1.12      Adequacy of Preparation.  Modernization II was generally well
prepared. The site for the location of the remanufacturing plant for parts
and components and locomotives at Patiala was selected at an early stage and
layouts including cost estimate of the plant were prepared in August 1980,
well in advance of the appraisal mission in January 1981. The unit exchange
parts for diesel locomotives to be acquired under the project were broadly
identified during project appraisal (although no parts were included for
electric locomotives). This was rectified during project implementation.
Preparation of tender documents for procurement of the prototype AC electric
locomotives was well under way and so was a program for testing of the
locomotives, and the specifications were agreed during project negotiation.
1.13      The Bank assisted IR at an early stage with guidelines on
procurement of test bogies for the high capacity wagon component. However,
because the Bank and IR took so long to agree on the wheel diameter and asle
loads to be tested, the component as originally defined was rot implemented.
This issue should have been identified and resolved during project                          K
preparation.
Proiect Implementation
1.14      General.  The project was implemented in the most satisfactory
manner and changes were made in project content to realize the objectives.
Because of earlier Bank operations, IR was acquainted with Bank procedures and
requirements. Hence, it was expected that this project would be implemented
smoothly. However, preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids, and
decisions on procurement of. prototype electric locomotives and test bogies
took more time than planned. Because of delays, the closing date was extended
by one year in May 1987 and by another year in June 1988, to September 1989.
But during project implementation, project management procedures in IR were
further improved, and follow-up projects should benefit from the improvements.
1.15      DCW-Patiala.  At closing, the DCW-Patiala workshop was fully
operational except for the locomotive remanufacturing facility, which will not
reach its production target until after 1990. Construction of DCW started
well, 'but civil disturbances and unreliable labor supply caused contractors
to fall behind schedule   Suppliers of machinery and equipment had problems
communicating with plant management and in finding service staff willing to
install machinery and give satisfactory service after delivery. To complete
the DaW component, its scope had to be scaled down, but completion was
nevertheless delayed by 24 months.



- 5 -
1.16      Unit Exchange.  IR planned and implemented a satisfactory unit
exchange maintenance system for diesel locomotives. It includes provision of
parts for unit exchange pools, develop'uent of adequate capacity for
remanufacturing parts, logistical support for parts movement, and the
organization for monitoring and coordinating the system. The system is now in
operation and functioning satisfactorily, and at loan/credit closing all
necessary parts and components had been acquited except for a small number of
traction motors.
1.17      Electric Locomotives.  Except for 405 kilometers around Bombay
which are operated with 1,500 volts direct current (DC) power supply, the
power supply for IR's remaining 9,200 km of electrified lines is 25,000 volts
AC. The locomotive used in the Bombay area is a DC-DC electric locomotive (DC
power supply with DC traction motors), while the locomotive on the larger
network is an AC-DC electric locomotive (AC power supply with DC traction
motors).
1.18      Under the project objective to improve the technology and
performance of IR's mainline AC electric locomotive, 18 prototype AC-DC
electric locomotives were purchased. Finalization of bid documents for the
locomotives by IR took 17 months, bid evaluation took 18 months, and other
procurement delays took 4 months. Despite an early start, the result was an
overall delay of more than a year in orderfing the locomotives. The
locomotives finally were delivered in early 1988, at which time the testing
started. Tests were completed in 1990, but so far there has been no decision
by IR to acquire and manufacture a new design of AC-DC electric locomotives.
1.19      The project failed to achieve its objectives of introducing modern
designs of AC electric locomotives and high capacity bulk traffic wagons, even
after lengthy, complex, and expensive tests of prototypes. Prior to
completion of the prototype AC-DC electric locomotive tests in this project,
IR decided to acquire and test AC-AC electric locomotives, a design that has
not been proven in heavyhaul freight services similar to those in India.
Nonetheless, the pro'2ct had a favorable technological impact on IR, since it
has contributed to introducing new technology in locomotive component
remanufacturing and maintenance. The project has had minor impacts on the
physical and social environment and on human resource development.
1.20      High Capacity Wagons and Test Bogies.  Procurement of wagon test
bogies was delayed by protracted discussions between the Bank and It on the
technical specifications and their operational implications, and the tests
have not been completed to date. The highcapacity wagon component therefore
was not implemented as intended, but redefined. Half of the funds were
reallocated for procurement of critically needed materials, parts, and
components.
1.21      ZR's initial preparation of technical specificationb for the test
bogies led to discussions with the Bank on the wheel size and axle load for
the bogies. To ultimately provide for move efficient operations, the Bank
requested IR to include tests of smaller diameter wheels (33 inch) than those
used by IR (39 inches), as well as tests of a higher axle load (up to 30 tons
compared to the present 20 toiis on broad gauge).



6-
1.22      IR did not agree with the Bank, arguing that studies prepared in
Europe by Union Internationale des Chemins-de-Fer and its research unit showed
that utilization of smaller wheels with 30 tons axle load created unacceptable
shear stresses in the softer rail (72 kg/mm2 UTS) used in India. IR argued
that railways using 33 inch wheels are using stronger rail (90 kg/mm2 UTS)
which can better withstand the higher shear stresses. A compromise finally
was reached in which IR agreed to test bogies with medium size wheels (36 inch
diameter).  The preparation of tender documents for the procurement of test
bogies lasted 51 months, and bid evaluation and contracting took 12 months.
In retrospect, the Bank's technical position was correct, but greater
consideration should have been giv¢n to the constraints which prevented IR
from introducing large diameter wheels and high tensile wheel rails at the
pace envisaged by the Bank. Had the compromise been reached earlier, the Bank
would have had the opportunity to be more involved in the review of the test
results.
1.23      Efforts by the Bank to encourage IR to adopt maller wheel
diameters and higher axle loads have had some success.  In 1989, IR decided to
allow 33 inch wheels for low axle load container wagons. Also in 1989, IR
identified a number of lines on which it intends to operate with axle loads of
22 tons. Track standards on these lines have been changed to require
installation of 90 kglmm2 UTS rail and other improved components.
1.24      Final Allocation of Funds. During implementation, a review of the
parts requirements for the unit exchaige maintenance system showed that Bank
funds originally allocated were insufficient. IR also requested the Bank to
finance more wheels and axles. A total of US$136 million was therefore
reallocated, including US$40 million project savings due to the depreciation
of the US dollar against the SDR under the IDA credit, US$16 million from the
reduced scope of the DCW component, and US$75 million from the cancellation of
the planned bulk supply of bogies in the high capacity wagon component.  The
reallocation of credit and loan funds is summarized by the comparison of
actual disbursements with appraisal estimates in the table below (additional
details are shown in Part I1I, page 19, Project Costs and Project Financing).



mHul IIg U 0.. for IVal,t
Amnraisal Estlmate      Actual Oisburem_nts
Totel   To S. Paid      Total    Pald
Project  From Loan A    Project  From Loan &
Cost    Credit          Cost    Credit        Dlfternes
DCW-Patiala             119       as             5          89          (16)
Unit Exchange
Parts                  283        88            68         164          82
Wheels & Axles         246        so            219        91           as
AC Electric
Locomotives             87        45            97         64           19
High Capacity
Wagons                 608       J              268        70          t7)
TA & Training           16                       20          8           (5)
Other
F                        8         3             8          3            0
Exchang Rate             0         0             4          4            4
Adjustment
TOTAL In USI         1.216       400          1.264       "44           44
Prolect Results
1.25      The overall economic return of the project was estimated at 241 at
project appraisal, with economic rates of return of 22Z for DCW, 23Z for the
unit exchange maintenance system, and 301 for the high capacity wagon
component. No economic evaluation was made for the electric locomotives, the
test bogies, and the training and technical assistance components.
1.26      The nature of the project is such that an economic reevaluation at
this time is tentative, since many project benefits are just now starting to
appear. However, project results have equaled or exceeded appraisal
expectations at DCW-Patiala, for the implementation of the unit exchange
maintenance system, and in the availability of critical parts and components.
Consequently, locomotives and rolling stock now spend less time in maintenance
status and more time in service.  Without the project, the pre-existing
maintenance facilities and procedures probably would have been unable to
provide adequate maintenance. IR very likely would be experiencing
deteriorating locomotive and rolling stock availability and reliability,
thereby reducing the its capacity for moving goods and passengers.
1.27      Economic Impact.  As noted in para. 1.4, the project consisted of
four specific components for improving the design and maintenance of
locomotives and rolling stock, along with a technical assistance and staff
training component. The specific components were: (i) the establishment and
operation of DCW; (ii)  the procurement of parts and components for a unit



- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    8
exchange maintenance system; (iii) the acquisition of components and
materials for construction of high capacity wagons for bulk traffic; and
(iv) the acquisition and testing of modern AC locomotive prototypes.
1.28      The appraisal evaluation included individual assessments of the
benefits from components (i), (ii), and (iii) above (including related
technical assistance), which accounted for about 93 Z of total project costs
estimated at appraisal. No separate economic evaluation was carried out for
item (iv) above, although the cost of this item was included in an overall
evaluation without counting any separate benefits.
1.29      DCW.   At appraisal, this component was expected to yield an
economic return of 242 (para. 4.06 and Annex E of Report No. 3431-IN) with the
benefits being derived from the difference in the CIP value of equivalent
imported parts and components and the estimated production cost of the new
facility for equivalent parts and components. The import cost of
remanufactured locomotives was taken as 702 of the border price of new ones.
1.30      The economic reevaluation is based on actual investment costs,
including the cost of technical assistance, adjusted to 1989190 prices and
excluding taxes and duties (estimated at 152). In addition to total
production costs for the years 1986/87 through 1989/90 and estimates for
1990/91 through 1992/93 (when full production will be reached), IR provided
unit costs of production, including overhead, for the main components and
subassemblies manufactured in the DCW, as well as major remanufactured items,
including locomotives. IR also provided comparable import costs for about
half of these items. This was complemented by recent Indian trade costs from
suppliers and prices or quotations available in the Bank. The items covered
represented about two-thirds of the production cost in 1989/90 and about 802
of the estimated production cost in 1991/92. The re-estimated rate of return
is 212  (Annex 1, Table 1) as compared with 24? at appraisal. The marginally
lower rate of return is due largely to the longer construction period, slower
buildup of production and higher investment cost partly compensated by
increased benefits.
1.31      Unit Exchange System. At appraisal this component was estimated to
yield a rate of return of 232 with the benefits accruing from (i) reduced
maintenance time of locomotives and rolling stock; (ii) increased reliability
of motive power; and (iii) better utilization of rolling stock. Locomotive
availability was estimated to improve by two days per month and utilization by
12 while the rollitg stock availability was estimated to improve by one day
per month and utilization by 42.
1.32      The economic reevaluation is based on updated costs and the same
broad benefits, but with a slightly modified approach as far as (i) is
concerned. Instead of using incremental output as the benefit, avoided
investment in additional locomotives and rolling stock were used based on
reduced out-of-service rates for diesel locomotives and electric locomotives.
The share of these benefits attributable to the unit exchange system has been
estimated at 602. As indicated in Annex 1, Table 2, the reevaluated rate of
return is 29Z. The somewhat higher rate of return is due to greater than



expected performance improvements, of which only a part has been attributed to
the unit exchange system.
1.33      High Capacity Wagons. The appraisal rate of return estimate for
this component was 23? with the main benefits arising from expzcted savings in
mineral transport costs from the new high capacity wagons with faster turn-
around using unit trains.
1.34      IR cost data do not provide separate cost estimates by type of
wagon used, nor an exact determination of the share of the total high capacity
wagons financed under the project as compared with the number of high capacity
wagons acquired during the period. A rough reevaluation of this component was
therefore made bys (i) estimating the number of high capacity wagons financed;
(ii) updat'ng the 1981 estimated cost savings per ton km. for high capacity
and regular wagons to 1989190 prices, assuming that only 75? of the estimated
unit benefits were actually achieved. Based on the above key assumptions the
reevaluated rate of return for this component would be 20Z, as compared with
at least 23Z at appraisal.
1.35      The re-evaluated overall rate of return for the project, including
components for which no benefits were quantified, is 192, which indicates that
the project can be expected to yield substantial economic benefits.
1.36      Financial Impact.  As per the Agreement, GOI was to maintain
passenger fares and freight rates and take all other actions necessary, so as
to provide to the Railways revenues sufficient to enable it to meet out of
internally generated resources all operating expenses (including appropriation
to the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF)), and dividend on capital at charge.
It was also agreed that appropriation to the DRF would be at least Re. 10.3
billion in the aggregate for FY84 and FY85. GOI has complied in essence with
its commitment. IR had a positive net result in all years except 1985. It
exceeded the targeted Rs 10.3 billion appropriation to the DRF in FY 84 and FY
85 together by Rs 6.7 billion, but had a negative net result of Rs 2.5 billion
in FY 85. Had GOI strictly adhered to the agreed Rs 10.3 billion appropriation
to the DRE, it would have had a positive net result of about Rs 1 billion in
FY 85.
1.37      IR's actual and projected financial statements are presented in
Annex 2, pages 1 to 4. The most salient features of IR's operations during the
1981 to 1990 period are: (i) IR's failure to capture or pass on to consumers
at least part of the significant increase in the railway overall physical
productivity; (ii) IR's substantial modernization effort reflected in the
higher level capital investment; (iii) the change in IR's resource
mobilization policy reflected in the increase in it's self-financing rate; and.
(iv) the resulting significant tariff increase in real terms.
1.38      IR's overall productivity  improvement is reflected in the 3.5?
p.a. increase in Traffic Units (TU) per employee and in other physical
productivity indicators (Annex 3). However, the corresponding surplus
generated has been fully appropriated by IR's employees; IR's wage bill, which
represent about 60? of working expenses, increased by 16.2? p.a. (6.6? in real
terms) with a nearly constant labor force. This increase was only partly



- 10 -
compensated by the labor productivity increase, and the increase in the
productivity of other production factors (including fuel efficiency), and
ultimately resulted in real tariff increases.
1.39      The modernization effort is reflected in the rapid increase of IR's
capital investment, which was Rs 9.4 billion in FY 81, and Rs 30.3 billion in
FY 89, a 6.11 p.a. increase in real terms. This was achieved without
significant extension of the railway network, mainly through accelerated track
renewal and transport capacity investments.
1.40      At the time of Project appraisal, the annual appropriation to the
Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF), which represent IR's provision for
depreciationlreplacement of fixed assets and self-financing effort, was only
31 of gross fixed assets; as agreed under the Project, this provision was
raised, and reached 9Z of gross fixed assets in 1985 and thereafter, which is
remarkably high for a railway, as the economic life of most of the fixed
assets is between 20 and 40 years. However, it is because of the increasing
appropriation to the DRF (increasing from Rs 2.3 billion in FY 81 to Rs 17.1
billion in FY 90) that IR has raised its self-financing rate from 25Z of
capital investment in FY 81 to about 5OZ in FY 90, whi':h constitute a good
performance by international standards.
1.41      The increasing claims on railway revenues to meet salary increases
and investment self-financing requirements required that tariffs be revised
upward. Tariff increases affected both passenger and freight traffic, thoujgh
it was higher for the latter. The average passenger tariff increase was 10.92
p.a. (1.72 p.a in real terms), and the freight tariff increase was 12.72 p.a.
(3.3Z p.a in real terms). Ongoing tariffs fully cover marginal costs of
transport. However, there is an element of cross-subsidization between
freight and passengers, as freight tariffs exceed the average transport cost,
while passenger tariffs do not cover the full average cost.  The lesser
increases of passenger tariff have accentuated traffic cross-subsidization.
1.42      IR's actual financial performance, compared to the projections
prepared during project preparation, indicate that significant effort was made
to enforce financial discipline in the railway; the annual net result has been
kept slightly positive in the long term; and the investment effort has been
accompanied by a substantial effort to increase the self-financing rate.
However, the projections did not anticipate the large wage bill increase and
underestimated the railway's investrment requirements. The projected real
tariff increase was therefore significantly smaller than the actual
adjustments.
1.43      It is uncertain whether IR will be able to continue to increase
real tariffs to finance salary increases and transfer some of the financial
burden of investment financing from the Government to rail users without
running the risk of losing a substantial share of passenger traffic and
freight 'other than coal and ponderous bulk) to roads. To avoid further real
tariff increases, IR will need to enforce better labor cost control measures
through manpower planning, and to improve investment planning to avoid the
recurrence of considerable backlog in track renewal and replacement of rolling
stock.



- 11 -
Proiect Sustainability
1.44      The sustainability of DCW-Patiala is practically assured, in view
of its demonstrated ability to meet production and quality goals.
Sustainability of the unit exchange maintenance system will depend on
continued provision of necessary funds to replace worn out unit exchange parts
and components, in order to maintain unit exchange parts pools. So far as
there are operational benefits from use of the prototype tC electric
locomotives, these benefits also are likely to be sustained.
Bank Performance
1.45      A project of this magnitude and complexity must be flexible and
allow for modifications during project implementation. For reasons mentioned
above (para. 1.24), the scope of some components was changed and funds were
reallocated in a timely manner to avoid additional implementation dlelays.
1.46      This project contained complex development objectives such as the
installation of OIS and the introduction of major design changes in electric
locomotives and high capacity wagons. One important lesson is that agreements
on the underlying technical concepts which are required to assure achievement
of project objectives should be reached during project preparation and not
left until implementation. As it happened, the Bank unnecessarily delayed
pioject implementation by its rigid position on wheel size and axle loads for
the bogie tests.
1.47      Another important lesson is that, vhen the Bank's development
objectives include such complex technical objectives, the Bank must make use
of substantial consulting services in implementation. Alternatively, the Bank
itself would have to take the responsibility for assuming a strong technical
assistance role if these objectives are to be achieved. In fact, the
objectives of improving IR's locomotive and rolling stock designs are even
more important today than they were ten years ago and therefore should be
included in any future project fcr IR, but only provided agreement is reached
early in project preparation on the proposed improvements in design of
locomotives and rolling stock.
Borrower Performance
1.48      The Borrower has been in compliance with all principal covenants
except for the one affected by the delay in completion of DCW. The Borrower
has prepared timely quarterly reports as required in the loan documents and
also has prepared useful reports for supervision missions.
1.49      After 40 years of cooperation, IR was well acquainted with Bank
procedures, and procurement was expected to be smoother than it was. An
analysis made during project supervision of the lead tiL  for procurement of
goods indicated that more time was being taken for identification of goods,
preparation and evaluation of tenders, and requests for disbursement than was
estimated at appraisal. Bid evaluation took 5 to 10 months, preparation of
contracts took 3 to 8 months, and requests for disbursements took 6 months.



- 12 -
1.50      One reason for this poor performance was frequent turnover of staff
in critical positions. New staff invariably had different views on technical
matters, and frequently the preparation and studies underlying previous
decisions had to be redone. To ensure efficient implementation, the most
critical positions are those of Advisor, Planning and his principal assistant;
but each of theve positions was occupied by six different persons during the
project period. Other critical positions with high turnover were the posi-
tions of Advisors for Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, and Traction,
all important in decisions on technical matters underlying the procurement of
goods and the introduction of new technology.
Project Relationship
1.51      The relationship between IR and the Bank is a long standing one.
It goes back to the early 1950s. It continues to be generally satisfa_tory,
although some tension developed during the discussions on wagon wheel size.
IR cooperated fully in keeping the rationale for their selection of larger
wheels. IR is well acquainted with the Bank procurement and disbursements
procedures, and no significant tension arese from procurement related issues.
The decision to reallocate funds amongst ca:egories was taken in agreement
between IR and the Bank. In the later years of project implementation, IR
took significant action to improve the organization of their disbursement
department to accelerate project disbursements at the Bank's request.
Consulting Services
1.52      The Project included US$20.5 million for training and technical
assistance. This component included training for DCW staff; training for
train operation and fuel efficient train driving techniques; and technical
assistance for bogie testing.
1.53      From the US$20.5 million, only about 8 million were used as
initially envisaged.  The reduction in this project component was due mainly
to the late start of the bogie testing program and the dropping of the train               |
driving component.
1.54      Training for DCW staff included 2045 staff-months of training, of
which 114 abroad. The actual program started late due to the delay in the
physical implementation of this project component.  By the loan/credit closing
date, 375 staff had been trained locally, and 146 had received training
abroad.  This component hasbeen successfully implemented broadly as initially
planned and has served the intended purpose.
1.55      Technical assistance for bogie testing was also delayed and was
still ongoing at closing date. The success of this component cannot be
assessed at this point of time.
1.56      Training for train operation and fuel efficient train driving has
been dropped from the project and was not implemented.
1.57      The parts of the training and technical assistance programs which
have not been completed by closing date are being considered for financing by



- 13 -
IR, or, as far as possible, by the Bank under the ongoing Railway
Electrification Project.
Proiect Documentation and Data
1.58      Documentation on project implementation was well kept, in
accordance with Bank requirements in this respect, which are well understood
and adhered to by IR for many years. Periodical project implementation
reports were prepared in accordance with agreed reporting requirements. In
addition, the Bank received the support of a local consultant who ensures that
the necessary documentation was prepared on time for each of the supervision
missions from 1987 onward.
1.59      All necessary data on IR's operations were made available to the
Bank, as well as data on Project implementation. The only identified
shortcoming was with the record of the comparative availability and
operational performance of wagons and locomotives maintained under the
project, compared to the other units. The absence of systematic record in
this respect required that a specific survey be conducted for the collection
of some of the data necessary for the evaluation of the economic impact of the
project.
1.60      Project accounts were well maintained and audited.  Audit reports
on Project accounts were presented in a timely manner, as part of the
financial control accounts were not subjected to a separate audit, as the
financial controls of the Ministry of Finances and the report on IR's finances
presented annually to the parliament fulfill the Bank requirements.



- 14 -
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1       The project has served its intended purpose.  The project helped
Indian Railways (a) to set up a plant for manufacture/remanufacture of
components for diesel locomotives and rebuilding of locomotives; (b) enabled
the Indian Railways to switch over to the unit exchange system of maintenance
for diesel locomotives; (c) introduced into the system electric locomotives of
modern design based on the state of art; and (d) upgraded freight rolling
stock.
2.2       Diesel Component Works, Patiala (DCW) is making assemblies and
subassemblies. The plant has also commenced rebuilding of locomotives. The
plant has already reached a level of rebuilding of 2 locomotives per month,
which is expected to increase to 6 locomotives per month by 1991/92 The
locomotives are rebuilt to new standards, and as the cost of rebuilding
locomotives is about 502 of the cost of the new locomotives or a little more,
the plant has helped make significant economies.
2.3       Introduction of unit exchange system of maintenance for locomotives
has significantly contributed to the increased availability and reliability of
diesel locomotives. Ineffective percentage of diesel locomotives, both on
Broad Gauge (BG) and Metre Gauge (MG), has declined over the years. This
dropped on BG from 18.22 in 1985/86 to 11.1 in 1986/87, 10.42 in 1987188, 102
in 1988/89 and 9.3Z in 1989/90. Corresponding figures for MG were 17.5?,
11.52, 10.5Z, 10.82, and 9.42.
2.4       Similarly, reliability of BG diesel locomotives has improved.
Kilometers per engine failure improved from 90,297 in 1985/86 to 95,746 in
1986/87, 95,957 in 1987/88, 104,857 in 1988/89, and 109,628 in 1989/90.
Corresponding MG figures were 77,120, 72,343, 85,602, 96,941, and 106,296.
2.5       The availability of electric locomotives improved from about
84-852 in the years 1982-1986 to 902 in 1987/88.
2.6       Introduction of high capacity wagons (BOX-N and BCN types) was the
most important factor which made it possible for the Indian Railways to cope
with the increased demand for freight traff':.  The Seventh Five Year Plan
witnessed an increase of 70 million tons in originating tonnage and about 55
billion ton kilometers in freight transport output; increases of this order
were registered in the past over a period of 15 to 20 years. The new freight
stock, being sturdier, was very reliable; and there were fewer detachments of
sick or crippled wagons enroute. The turnaround of these wagons, though not
being estimated separately, is significantly lower than the turnaround for the
freight stock as a whole. The gross trailing load of freight trains also
improved significantly.
2.7       The pace of implementation of the project was, by and large,
satisfactory, except that procurement of bogies for freight stock was delayed
for quite some time because of the Bank's insistence on adoption of a smaller
d5.meter wheel. Indian Railways had made a thorough study of the question
including a detailed techno-economic evaluation of the reduction in the wheel



- 15 -
size from 39 inches to 33 inches, but it took some time to convince the Bank's
experts to agree to the IR's considered views on the question. As the Indian
Railways did not wish to be saddled with a large number of bogies of different
makes and design, the number of bogies to be procured for test and trial had
to be limited; and, to avoid shortfall in the utilization of the loan, savings
from the bogie segment of the loan were utilized for procurement of components
of electric locomotives.
2.8       The progress of the Diesel Component Works, Patiala, considering
the disturbed conditions in the State of Punjab where it is located, could not
be considered unsatisfactory. The contractors had difficulty in progressing
the work due to unreliable labor supply on account of civil disturbances; and
for the same reasons, suppliers of machinery and plant had problems in
locating staff willing to install machinery and plant. Despite these
difficulties, the production in most of the shops commenced almost on or a
little behind schedule. The plant is soon expected to achieve production and
remanufacture of parts and components at 901 of its gross rated capacity.
2.9       The procurement of electric locomotives took a little longer than
anticipated mainly because the Railways i.. .ided to procure locomotives based
on the state of the art. Railways had to be rnturally cautious in the
selection of the locomotive as the locomotive selected would be meeting the
long term requirement. The locomotive had to be suitable for Indian
conditions. In fact, to ensure that an appropriate locomotive was selected,
the draft specifications were even referred to the potential suppliers. The
examination of the relevant factors and finalization of the bid documents and
evaluation of bids naturally took time. In passing, it may be mentioned that
of the 17 months taken for finalization of bid documents, some time was spent
in consultations with the Bank; for example, about 2 112 months were taken in
getting Bank's approval for negotiations with suppliers.
2.10      One reason for the increase in the cost of locomotives was the
revision in the exchange rate. For instance, at the time of placing of the
contract, the dollar value of the price in yen at which the order was placed
on the Japanese firm was equivalent to US$21.7 million.  The actual value in
dollars by the time the disbursement was made came to US$40.73 million, i.e.,
$19 million higher at the original yen value.
2.11      It would be wrong to attribute the delay in procurement to frequent
turnover of staff. The Railways fully recognize the need for continuity, but
changes made were unavoidable in the context of personnel policies of the
Railways.
2.12      The supervisory mission helped the implementing agencies in a big
way to sort out problems and other related issues, but these purposes would be
served still better if the missions are spaced uniformly at slightly longer
intervals.



- 16 -
PART IIIt SATITSTICAL INFORMATION
Proiect Data
RVP Unit                         Asia
Sector                           Transport
Subsector                        Railways
Borroinr                         Government of India
Executing Agency                 Indian Railways
Fiscal Year of Borrower          April 1 - March 3i
Related Bank Loans andlor Credits
Ln/Cr.      Title             Purpose                   Approved   Status
Cr. 844-IN  Railway Moderni- Workshop modernixa-        1978       Completed
zation and        tion and constru-
Maintenance       ction of wheel and
axle plant
Cr. 2417-IN Railway Electri- Electrification of         1984       Active
fication and      key routes and
Workshop Modern- modernization of
ization           additional
workshops
Cr. 2935-IN Railway Modern-  Modernization of           1988       Active
ization III       track structure on
core network



-17 -
Project Timetable
Date        Date          Date
Item                     Planned      Revised      Actual
Identification              -           -          04/80
Preparation                 -           -           06/80
Appraisal Mission           -           -           01/81
Loan/Credit Negotiations 06/10/81      08/23/82    09/17/82
Board Approval            09/15/81      -          11/16/82
Loan/Credit Signature       -                      12/23/82
Loan/Credit Effectiveness   -           -           02/23/83
Loan/Credit Closing       09/30/87     09/30/89    09/30/89
Loan/Credit Completion   03131/88      01/30/90    01/30/90
Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$million)
FY   1983 1984 1985  1986 1987   1988  1989 1990
Appraisal Estimate             7     44   156   301    390  400    -    -
Actual                         6      8    27    84    147  210   372  400
Actual as Z of Estimate        861   17Z  172   28Z    382  532   932  1002
Date of Final Disbursement: May 31, 1990



- 18 -
Prosect Implementation
Appraisal
Indicators                    Estimate    Actual
DCW full production                    1987        1992
Locomotive Unit Exchange               1986        1990
Wheels and Axles                       1986        1989
Locomotive Testing                     1986        1990
High Capacity Wagons                   1987        Note
Technical Assistance                   1987        1990
& Training
Note: The high capacity wagorL -nponent was redefined and funds were
reallocated, due to delay in the bogie tests.



- 19 -
Proiect Costs and Financing
A. ProJ"ct
.Praat t- atimat Aet  Oieb
Leral  Foreign    l    crl Foign Totl       Copeticn
1' -U                    -u - s; -z  U
oD                            MlO    as   Ito       v      a9   9o         109
Unit lxchae                  1,609    a8   16   is7a  1in    so            100
Wheel., Axt.. and Tile        641    174    4    1'678   it?   19           100
PrototyPe Iootiv-e            202    48    b       548   64    97          1oo
Material. for Freight Wagon,  8,112    14   808  8,1o8    70   188        100
Toehnacat Asslitace aw         67      9    16    10t      8    20         100
Tralfifi.&
Fe Adjusto"t                   -       a     a      -_     8               l00
Toal       6.814    $14  1,112 1,.9a7   486  1,110        100
1/ Exchange Rate UW1.0 a Re 9.0
V/ Sachang. Rate 161.0 M R. 16.8
B. Proiect Financing
Planned
(Loan/Credit
Source                         Agreement                     Revised Final
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Initial       Revised'           Initial        Actual
Exchange       Exchange
Rate           Rate
IBRD/IDA              400.0          443.6            443.62          443.68
Cofinancing
OPEC Fund              22.5           22.5             22.5            22.5
Domestic              793.2          793.2            749.6           784.0
TOTAL                1215.7        1259.3           1215.7          1250.1
1/  Change in Exchange Rate SDRIUS$ from 1US$ - 1SDR to lUS$    0.902SDR.
2/ Exchange Rate US$1.0 - Rs 9
31 Exchange Rate US$1.0 - Rs 16.5



- 20 -
Pro1ect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual
DCW.
Savings on cost of imported           As per SAR, difference between
components.                           production cost and cost of
imported components.
Unit Exchange System.
Reduced maintenance time.             As per SAR, reduced maintenance time.
Better reliability of                 Utilization of rolling stock, avoided
locomoti-ves.                         additional investment.
High Capacity Wagons.
Savings in mineral transport          As per SAR, number of wagons, traffic
cost.                                 carried by high capacity wagons,
savings per t.km.
B. Economlc Impact
Appraisal                           Estimate  Actual
DCW                                   242       212
Unit Exchange                         23Z       292
High Capacity Wagon                   23Z       20X
C. Financial Impact
(in million Rs)
1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Net Result
-Appraisal           518        889    829       673  (839)   (1,110)
-Actual              466     1,184    (347)  (2,994)   979        262
Appropriation DRP
-Appraisal          3500      5000     5000    5300    6500      680C
-Actual             3500      5560     8500    8500    9200    12500



- 21 -
D. Studies
Am,raisal Estimtes            Actual
Locomotive Testing                   1996                    1990
Equipment testing DCV                1987                    1990
Equipment Testing bogies             1987                    1990
Z. Tralning
The Project training component has been scaled down from US$ 20.5 to WS$8
million. The execution of the major training component, training for DCV
staff, vas delayed and was not completed by closing date. The bogie testing
component was also incomplete by that date. The Train Operation and EfficLent
Fuel Driving training component was abandoned.



- 22 -
Status of Covenants
Covenant                                    Status of Compliance
Maintain passenger fares and freight        In compliance for FY96,
rates, and take all other action            FY87, FY83, and FY89 (based
necessary or appropriate so as to           on preliminary estimates).
enable the Railwasy to meet annually
out of internally generated resources,
all operating expenses, and dividend
payments on capital at charge.
(C.A. 4.02)
Appropriations to the Depreciation          In compliance.
Reserve Fund of the Railways shall be
not less than Rs 21,000 million in
aggregate for the period April 1, 1980
to March 31, 1985.
Maintain and expand the unit exchange       In compliance.
component pool of the Railways so as to
meet the latter's maintenance needs.
(C.A. 4.04)
Ensure that production and                  Civil disturbances in
remanufacture of parts and component at   Punjab initially delayed
the diesel works shall be at least 402    this component and as a
of gross rated capacity in 1985186, 702   result, compliance with this
1986/87 and no less than 90? thereafter.  covenant is delayed. However,
(C.A. 4.05)                                 the units are now in full
operation and the production
was in 1988 70X of total
planned capacity, 752 in FY89
and will be 100? in FY90.
Concurrently with the start of              In compliance, however
operations Diesel Component Works,          somewhate delayed due to
install a management information            delay in the completion of
system.                                     the DCW.



- 23 -
Use of Bank Resources
Planned         Revised           Final
A.   Through Appraisal                  NA             NA            168
Through Boad Appraisal             NA             NA             56
Through Effectivenss               NA             NA              0
Supervision                        NA             NA           246
B. Staff Input and Major Project Missions
Staff Input Days                 Overall Project
Activity             Date         In Field 1/      Composition        Status    Typ  of Problems
Identification     4/80      28 days         6     Eng/Ec/FA
Appraisal          1/81      140 days       21     Eng/Ec/FA
Post Appraisal     4/81       21 days        6     Eng/Ec/FA
Post Appraisal     8/el       36 days        7     Eng/Ec/FA
Supervisoln  1     1/83      42 days        12     Eng/Ec               1
Supervision  2     5/83       S0 days       14     Eng/Ec/F.            1
Supervision  3    10/83        5 days        5     Eno                  1
Supervision  4     2/86       15 days        8     Eng/Ec/FA            1
Supervision  5     4/85        7 days        2     Eng/Ec/FA            1
Supervision  6     6/85      20 days         7     Eng/FA               1
Supervision  7     9/85       16 days        6     Eng                  1
Supervision  8     4/86       25 days        7     Eng                  2           Technical/Fin
Supervision  9    12/66       16 days        6     Eng                  2           Technical/Fin
Supervision 10     1/87        6 days        8     Eng                  2           Technical
Supervision 11     6/87        5 days        8     Eng/Ec/FA            2           Technical
Supervision 12    12/87        6 days        3     Eng                  2           Technical
Supervision 18     2/88       10 days        5     Ec/FA                2           Technical
Supervision 14    10/88        6 days        3                          2           Techniael
Supervision 15     1/89       10 days        6                          2           Technical
Supervision 18    10/89       10 days        5                          2           Technical
1/  Estimate. Most missions supervised more than ono on-going project
with IR In one mission.
1: Problem-free or minor problems.
2: Moderate problems.
C.                                      Costs  (Not available)



- 24 -
Table I
INDIA
RAILUAY NOERNIZATIO'N AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT It
..... .................._........
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
.............................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost/Defit Streams for Economie Rate of Return for DCU
......... .................._._..............
(Nittion Rs. in 1989/90 values)
AdJusted Technical   Total    Economic  Economic       MET
Economic  Assist.   Economic  Product.  Smnefits  COST/ME
cost                 Cost      Cost
a/                   SB ase Case  38AS CASE
1981/82      11.73                11.73                           -11.?
8v8i       55.81        -       55.81        -55.8
83/84     110.89        -       110.89                         -110.9
84/8      165.72        -       165.72                         -165.7
85/86     392.50        5.0    397.50                          -397.5
86/87     270.16        8.0    278.16       32.1      48.2    -262.1
87/88     192.77        8.0    200.77       65.4      98.1    -168.1
88/89     198.56        8.0    206.56      142.2     213.3    -135.5
8.°/90    196.86        4.0    200.86      262.6     420.0      -43.5
90/91      74.13        -       74.13      404.7     729.0      20.2
91/92     210.63               210.63      611.8    1132.5      310.1
92/93     167.74        -       167.74     860.9    1617.1      588.5
93/94                   -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
94/95                                      860.9    1617.1      756.2
f/96       -            -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
9697       -            *                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
97/98      -                               860.9    1617.1      756.2
98/99      -            -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
99/2000     -            -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
00/01                   -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
01/02      *                               860.9    1617.1      756.2
02/03      -            -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
03/04                   -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
04/0       --                              860.9    1617.1      756.2
05/06      -                               860.9    1617.1      756.2
06/07      *                               860.9    1617.1      756.2
07/08      -                               860.9    1617.1      756.2
08/09                   -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
09/10                   -                  860.9    1617.1      756.2
10/11            -                         860.9    1617.1      756.2
IRR:     20.C11
S/ Technical costs adjusted for 15 taxes and inflation



- 25 -
_NNX 1
Table I
tNDtA
tAILWAY NODERNIZATN  ND MPAITNA     PRWECT 11
..........................  ...........
(LoAw 2210-IN/CDiT 1299-I1)
......... ....... ........... 
PRWCT COPLTIN    T
.........................
Unit Exchange SIE  - fkomie   eevaluation
(Niltion Re In 19/90 volum)
Economic        lIna.    Total         Aviduol  Inc. Wagon Util    Total       Nlt
fnsoal     Inmt.           Maintne.   Costs      ImQt.  due Inc. Rleab l lk fit  Bhnefits
Year      Cost a          Costsb/ 4/                           4/
19S4/85         561              -         561        .0 .561
198/86          966                        966        -                            0  
19668?         1893            16S        2078       316-                       3164       10"
196W/68        2371            200        2571        537           1485        202        -549
1988489        2461            245        2706        445           1712        2157       -549
1969/9O        3647            281        3928        636           2015        265       -127
1990/91                       2m           293        214           2015        2229       1936
s1s192        -                m           m29                      2015        2M15       1722
1992/93                        2           293 m                    2015        2015      lm
1993/94                        2m          293        -             2015        2015       1722
1994/95       -29                          293        -             2015        2015       1n22
1995/96                        m           293        -             2015        201s       1722
1996197       -                m           293                      2015        2M15       1722
1997/98                        293         293                      2015        2015       1722
19989         -                293         293      -2500           2015        -485       -m
______                                                        133:~~~~~~~~~~~~~lR  29.022
a/  finmmisl cost adjusted for t xes (.85X)  nd for Inflation.
b/ At Is 0.9 million for locomotives
di At R  14 mftilon per diesct locomotlv  nid r.
per electric locomtive with 50 remidual value.
ft  4S Oradbal bulidup to nea  Increased utilization In tI6/90  nd thd    e rfter
wiht 35X narglntl cost as In oriinal evluation mid asnuming  onto
d revene  per tnm  re "at.



26   -
ANNEX I
Table 3
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINtENANCE PROJECT 11
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
.............................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost Benefit Streams for Economfc Rate of Return
for High Capacity Wagons
(Millon Rs In 1989/90 values)
Adjusted
Fiscal    Econamic      Economic       Net
Year       Costs       Benefits     Benefits
1984/85         302                    -302
1965/86          47           62         1S
1986/87        1004          161      -843
1987188         922          343      -579
1988/89         694          496       -198
1989/90         995          6S6      -339
1990/91                      737        737
1991/92         -            737        737
1992/93         -            737        737
1993/94         -            737        737
1994/5                       737       737
1995/6          -            737        737
1996/97                      737        737
1997/98         -            737        737
198/99          -            737        737
1999/2000                     737        737
2000/01         -            737        737
2001/02                      737        737
2002/03         -            737        737
2003/04                      737        737
2004/05         -            737        737
2005/06         -            737        737
2006/07         -            737        737
2007/08         -737                    737
2008/09                      737        737
2009/10         -            737        737
IRR:      20.01X
; ~~~~~~~~....... ..........
a/ Financial costsnadjusted for taxes/duties
(0.85) and inflation



Table 4
INDIA
RAILVAY NODERNIZATION MID PINIMTENAUCE PROJECt II
.............. .............................  
(LOw 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sumary of the Economic Cost and BenefIts Steams of the Project
for Nigh Capacity Vagons
(Mlliton Re in 1989/90 values)
U33UUflUUUU3u- *- m-  -cost Streams                                                                       it St
------ D C Y -......    Unit Exchange --                                                 --- Unit Exchane ---  Nigh         Total   get Eeneffts
I                                       Incremental High Cmpcty  Other    Total                  Avoided   Increment. Capacity   Project  Total Project
isca t Investment Production Investment Naintenace   Vagons       Items   Project         0 C V  Loco rw   Vagon Util.   agons
.Year
1981/82         .                                          -          -         10                                                                -11.
1982/83       55.8              -          -               -          -         55.8        -            -          -          -            0     -55.8
1983/84       110.9       -                                -          -        110.9        -            -          -          -            0    -110.9
1984/85      165.7        -          561        -          302        -       1028.7        -            -          -          -           0    -1028.7
1985/86      397.5        -          966        -           47        -       1410.5        -            -          -          -           0   -1410.5
1986/87      278.2       32.1       1893        185       1004         42    3434.3          48.2       3164        -           62    3274.2    -160.1
1987/88      200.8       65.4       2371        200        922                3759.2         98.1        537       1485        161    2281.1   -1478.1
1988/89      206.6      142.2       2461        245        694       1331    5079.8         213.3        445       1712        243    2613.3   -2466.5
1989/90      200.9      262.6       3647        281        995         34    5420.5         420.0        636       2015        496    3567.0   -1853.5
1990/91       74.1      404.7        -          293        -          -        771.8        729.0        214       2015        656    3614.0    2842.2
1991/92      210.6      611.8        -          293        -          -       1115.4       1132.5        -         2015        737    3884.5    2769.1
1992/93      167.7      860.9        -          293        -          -       1321.6       1617.1        -         2015        73?    4369.1    3047.5
1993/94        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1        -         2015        737    4369.1    3215.2
1994/95        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1        -         2015        737    4369.1    3215.2
1995/96        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1        -         2015        737    4369.1    3215.2
1996/97        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1        -         2015        737    4369.1    321S.2
1997/98        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1        -         2015        737    4369.1    3215.2
198/99         -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        737    1869.1      71s.2
1999/2000       -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       201S        737    1869.1      715.2
2000/01         -       860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       16t7.t      -2500       2015        73?    1869.1      71s.2
2001/02         -       860.9                   293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        737    1869.1      715.2
2002/03        *        860.9        *          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        73?    1869.1      715.2
2003/04         -       860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        ?37    1869.1      71S.2
2004/S05       -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        737    1869.1      715.2
2005/06         -       860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        73m    1869.1      71S.2
2006/07         -       860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        737    1869.1      71S.2
2007/08        -        860.9        -          293        -          -       1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        n7?    1869.1      71S.2
2008/09         -       860.9        -293                  -                  1153.9       1617.1      -2500       2015        737    1869.1      715.2
2009/10                 860.9                   293        -          -       1153.9       16171       -2500       2015        737    1869.1      T5S.2
18.764



CLRU WL101UCIDJT 1299-ZE1)
PRJECT 00WLETIU  EMiT
...... .........._. _..._. _._. _.---
I681M RAILIWAS
.           ~~~~...............
FILNIA. STATSMS
(M96l-19M, in thoAawd t.)
Ia Statnts 981-19J
(Nittien Rf)
1931       19J2           193             1,984           15               1986             1987           196      19"     1990
Actual  Actual Project.  Actual Project.   Actual Project.   Actual Project.  Actual Project.  Actul  ProJect.   Actal   Actual   Actual
TraffIt Earnirns
Passene        1                9,431.8 11,173.4 9,840.0 13,216.8 11,942.0  5,.201.1 12,320.0 16,385. t2.M730.0 19,301.4 n3,140.0 22,364.4 t3.SS0.0 23,U7.7 27262. 29,U4.0
First Clas                      911.  1.09.9          1,293.5         1,362.8          1,514.9         1.31.7           2,09.7           2,343.5  2W97.9. 3.1996
SeodC1i.                    7,363.3 8,.78.        10.323.0        12. 172.7        13,073.3        15,305.1         17,309.9         18,257.1 21,587.1 23,110.A
other Coaching                 1,157.1 1,7.8 1,279.0 1,600.3 1,398.0  1,665.6 1,440.0  1,797.s 1,4o.o  2,104.6  1,S20.0  2,934.8  1,S60.0  2,547.1  2,707.4  3,110.0
Freigt                         16,175.2 23S71.4 23,448.0 29,721.2 26,904.0 33,535.0 2,369.o 36,024.1 27,842.0 43,76.8 28,323.0 S1,332.4 28,813.0 S5,19.5 63,431.1 76,11O.0
Niscellamo  Reverue             1,220.1 1,396.3  651.0 1,696.0  876.0  1,730.3   9O.0  1,246.S  940.0  1328.9   970.0  1,418.2  1,000.0  1,621.4  2,249.7  1,990.0
Spwwes                           (187.6) (291.8)  433.0  (257.6)  400.0   (62.3)  4S0.0   (68.7)  500.0  (1U.1)   205.0   (30.4)   311.0  (236.1)  (350.3)  (200.0
Gross Trafffc Rewn             26,039.S 3s,8513 35,851.0 o,376.4 41,S20.0 SO,404.1 42,489.0 53,57.6 43,452.0 64,231.0 44,1s5.0 75,056.6 45,234.0 84,352.  9s2,92.9 107?r.o
Genet luperfntendane            1,420.3 1,585.1         1,3.4           2,084.0         2,136.4          2,591.6          3,142.3         S3.0  3,931.1  4,6.6
epair wrd Paint. of Permwnt usy   2 .  2,.1            3,628.3          4,219.3         5,047.6          56.4             6,519.6          7,371   8,203.4  8,n.9.9
Repair rd Paint. of Motiv Pawr    2,163.4 2,570.6      3,039.S          3,399.5         3,748.7          4,521.0          s,271.3          5,534A.   626.8  67.7
Repair end Naint, of Carriage & Megan 2,697.1 3,487.0  4,317.9          4,865.3         S,270.6         6003.4            6,906.5          7,41.5  8,0.6  9,0  7
Repair ud Naint. of Plants wid Eqaip 1,34.4 15S96.8     1,87?.7         2,217.7          ,562.2         3,220.7           3,616.6          3, 6.9  4, I0.1  4,790.5
Op. Expensrs lollng Stock srd Eqaip. 2,5s84  3,069.0  3,406.7          3,869.3         4,265.9         4,750.0           S,4t3.2          6,294.6  6,859.1  7,279.
Operating Espenees Traffic      2,899.1 3,258.2        3,740.8          4,349.6         4,904.0         5,455.9           6,391.0          ,741   9,40.4 11,491.?
Operating ERpewues Pual         5,0983 6,903.8          7,823.7         8,747.3         9,780.0         10,872.S         12,059.8         12,185.7 1,03.2 14,74.8
Staff Velfare and lmties          ss956.1 1,105.4      1,2C6.0          1,480.1         1,666.6          1,892.9          2,22.s           2,561.9  2,89.4  3,142.9
Niselluwo e arking Espus        1,439.2 1,5ss.1         1,856.0         2,207.3         2,437a           3,e04.9          3,129.7          3,21.s  4,3     4,097.6
Preident Fuid ud Pewon          1,223.3 1,398.0         1,943.7         2,347,2         2,889.4         3,628.6           4,74.3             56.0  7,56.5    49.1
Nlsceltanaa                    (1,283.3)(2,191.6)     (2,970.8)       (3,597.0)        (4,193.9        (5,213.4)        (6,418.)           (126.6) (983.)  (20.9
Totat Wrking l prmas           22,964.8 2r,33s.s 27,16.0 31,2.9 30,100.0 36,189.6 30,620.0 40,71S3 31,149.0 46,431.4 31,68.0 53,005.6 32,234.0 60,039.5 60,1t8 74,470.0
cahb Geated from qeattio        3,654.7 8,515.8 8,M.0 12,S83.5 11,420.0 14,214.S 11,869.0 12,872.3 12,303.0 17,849.6 12,471.0 22,051.0 13,000.0 24,323.0 32,406.2 32,850.0
Appropriation to DRF            2,200.0 3,so.o0 3,500.0 5,S5O.O s,0o.o0  s,s00.0 s,00o.o  6,5so.0 S,300.0  9,200.0  6,500.0 12,SO.O  6,800.0 13,500.0 15,080.0 17,150.0
Apprepriation to Perfen Fwd       860.0  96s5.   985.0 1,480.0 1,480.0  1,825.0 1,750.0  2,210.0 1,900.0  2,600.0  2,1SO.0  3,s5o.0  2,300.0  4,500.0  S,S0O.0  72.0LO
Dividend to General Reveraj     3,253.6 3,S64.7 3,702.0 4,359.8 4,051.0  4,237.0 4,290.0  4,656.9 4,430.0  S,070.4  4,660.0  S,788.S  S,010.0  6,388.6  7,156.6  7,816.7
Net Rult                       (2,63L9)  466.1  S18.0 1,183.7  889.0  (347.S)  829.0 (2,494.6)  63.0   979.2  (89.0)   262.5 (1.110.06)(.   4,747.6    533
mum 



IWI*                                                                 SQmm 2
OAWUA%T YMIZAT'iWA AS UiUTWU ttai 
(LOW 221O-131T 29961-)
PRMTac CWeLua NuT
IWIAN RAZUtYS
FtINAIAL STAIBEET
(198t-1990, in thmsad fs.)
3ale PMsheets ¶981-a9
(Ritlion Rs.)
ASSETS                            18         1982            1983           19                85             1986             1t9     e       15      1909    190
Actual  Actuat Projt.  Act   Project.  Actut Project.   ActUa Project.   AttLt  Project.  Actusl Project.  Atuat   Actuat  ctual
Grs Fixed Asets (imt. Stores) 74,483.9 81,643.6 76,9U.0 88.822.0 83,145.0 94,014.1 89,650.0 103,MJ 96,80   114,920.1 102,117.0  3.068.7 106,677.0 1 .5 172,394.2
less: Depro reserw Fund  nsted  4,915.7 S,596.1 6,216.0 6,660.2 7,716.0  8,063.4 7,716.0  9,935.9 8,016.0 12,350.8 10,216.0 16,148.6 10,216.0 20,61.3 25,7.2
Other 3unc niested       8,604.7 9,064.4 9,285.0 9,650.9 9,25.0 10,272.7 9,455.0 10,960.9 9,606.0 11,78.6 10,338.0 13,189.1 1¶0338O 144932.0 16,c6.9
Net Fixed Abets              60,963.5 66,981.1 61,486.0 72,510.9 66,14.0 75,678.0 72,479.0 82,856.5 ?9,17o 90.780.7  1,5S63.0 103,731.0 86,1.0 116,222.2 12987S.1  0.0
Furds with tentral Coy.       18,021.2 17,764.0 5,454.0 19,062.0 6,019.0 20,661.0 6,761.0 22,710.5 7,349.0 22,830.5  s,866.0 26,068.0  4,60.0 31,752.  29,603.3
Lore Term Assets             78,964.7 84,745.1 66,940.0 91,572.9 72,163.0 96,339.0 79,240.0 103,567.0 86,527.0 113,611.2 87,431.0 129,799.0 90,726.0 147,974.9 159,478.4  0.0
sudry Debtors                   248.7  303.6 4,818.0  370.2 4,866.0   444.9 4,916.0   448.1 4,067.0   s12.2  s,029.0   683.9  S,087.0   6M0.2   791.6
Receivable on Traffic         1,434.4 1726.3 4,200.0 1,98.8 4,536.0  2,046.1 4,854.0  2,114.8 5,14S.0  2,227.9  S,402.0  2,266.2  5,618.0  2,492.4  2,684.7
Recemivbte frae Gover.nt        571.6  763.2           920.2            951.9           793.2            656.0            427.3            421.1  1,125.5
Cash in Mard                   1,959.0 1,980.5 1,231.0 2,034.0 1,231.0  2,467.5 1,31.0  1,811.6 1,231.0  2,U3.6  1.8t.0  3,046.3  1,Z31.0  3,217.6  3,780.1
Short Tem Aets                4,213.7 4,773.6 10,249.0 5,368.2 10,633.0  5,910.4 11,001.0  5,167.7?l ,343.0  5,39.7 116,68O  6,45.7 11,936.0  6,814.3  8,381.9  0.0
Total Assets                   03,198.4 89,518.7 77,189.0 96,941.1 82,796.0 102,249.4 90,241.0 110,734.7 97,870.0 119,150.9 ",089.0 136,222.7 102,66.0 154,789.2 167,86.3  0.0
LIAILITTIES
Raitway Reserve Funds Availabte   6,484.7 5,425.1 5,454.0 4,883.2 6,019.0  5,794.8 6,761.0  6,392.7 7,39.0  5,692.4  5,168.0  6,133.5  4,603.0  6,944.1  6,162.1
Lom tapital                  60,963.5 66,980.5 66,400.0 72,510.9 72,780.0 75,678.0 76,465.0 82,856.5 80,150.0 90,780.7 86,60.0 103,731.0 93,150.0 116,222.2 12975.1
Provident Fund                9,019.5 9,492.3        10,277.7        10,643.          11,274.5        11,807.8         13,036.5         15,617.0 17,395.4
othr Deposits wd Advances     2,517.0 2,846.6         3,981.1         4,m23.2         S,OU3            S,330.3          6 098.0          9,191.6  6,045.8
Total EqAty                  78,984.7 84,744.5 71,854.0 91,572.9 78,799.0 96,339.1 03,226.0 105,567.0 87,499.0 113,611.2 92 U98.0 19,799.0 97,753.0 147,974.9 159,478.4  0.o
..-.............................                                                                ---.---
Payables                        917.2 1 0483          1,169.0         1,320.4          1,543.8        1,75.7            2,112.0          2,281.9  2,558.
----I-----ntl Trsactions    3,296.5 3,7253           4,199.2          4,590.0         3,623.9          3,034.0          4,311.7          4,s19.4  S,83.2
total short Ter Liabilities   4,213.7 4,m.6 5,335.0 5,368.2 3,997.0  5,910.4 7,015.0  S,167.7 10,371.0  S,539.7  6,571.0  6,423.7  4,909.0  6,814.3  8,381.9  0.0
...................                       ...    ...............................   ..........    ..........
Total Liabilfties              83,198.4 89,518.1 77,189.0 96,941.1 82,796.0 102,249.5 90,241.0 110,734.7 97,870.0 119,150.9 99,"089.0 136,222.7 102,662.0 54,789.2 167,8603  0.0



INDIA                                                               ANM 2
*RAILW.Y WRWIZA;OW AND KAITNAC It                                                  Page 3
........    .     .. ..................... 
CLOAiN 2210-INV/CEDIT 1299-I1)
PItOJECT W.LETIOI RlEP0T
......... .............._. .
IlDIM RAILWAYS
FINANCIAL StATENIS
(1981-1990, In thousud fs.)
Sesm wsd Appticatiore of Fudn
(litticn ft)
1981       1982           1963            1984            ¶985             1986             1987           1968   1989    IMO
Actuat  Actin Project.  Actual Project.  Actuat Project.   Actual Project.  Actual Project.  Actual Project.  Actuat   ActuaL   Actuat
Net Revuu                       1,274.9 4,030.6         5,S42.9 4,940.0  3,798.5 5,119.0  2,701.0 5,103.0  6,858.7  3,821.0  6,808.4  3,900.0  7,231.S  7,373.3  9,550.0
Contribution tp DRF             2,232.0 3,533.0         S,594.3 S,000.0  8,S37.3 S,000.0  8,544.8 5,300.0  9,.23.8  6,500.0 12,S93.2  6,800.0 13,619.6 I5.127.3 17,307.5
Open Lines 114.                    97.0   89.4            93.8  110.0    95.3  1S0.0   114.1  193.0   135.6   200.0   234.3   200.0   310.5   368.S   500.0
Catributin ti Pesion Fud           73.1   149.5          185.6  170.0   213.3  280.0   408.9  340.0   726.#   200.0   985.0   210.0  2,075.6  1,781.6   443.2
Contribution to Safety Fwd        10i5.0  106.1           90.5   86.0    82.1   87.0    84.9   87.0   252.6    bO.0   309.0    74.0   669.8   564.1   564.2
Intrst on fud Bal                 394.9  372.7           335.5  388.0   342.3  387.0   387.9  S12.0   392.7   248.0   376.4   305.0   424.3   414.4   464.0
Cash Flew                       4,176.9 8,281.3        11,845.6 10,694.0 13,068.8 11,023.0 12,241.6 11,S35.0 17,630.3 11.0C9.0 21,306.3 11,489.0 24,331.3 2S,629.2 28,S28.9
6aveninnt Contribitiaw
Capitat                       6,11O.0 6,017.0         S,489.8 6,300.0  S,061.2 3,685.0  7,178.4 3,68S.0  7,924.2  6,500.0 12,950.3  6,SOO.0 12,492.1 13,627.1 16,01S.0
Loom                            346.6                                   495.9           626.1                    795.0   118.0   973.0   537.8  1 273.3   S68.S
Totat Long Tof Sorce           10,633.5 14,298.3    0.0 17,335.4 17,074.0 18,62.9 1,708.0 20,016.1 15,220.0 2S,SS4.S 18,344.0 34,374.6 18,962.0 37,361.2 40:S29.6 4S,412.4
APPLICATIONS
O   Lines ws Chared                97.0   89.4            93.8  110.0    95.3  150.0   114.1   193.0   135.6   200.0   234.3   200.0   31O.5   368.5   50O.0
E xmicn binestamt               6,110.0 6,017.0         5,489.8 6,044.0  5,061.2 3,367.0  7,178.4 3,394.0  7,924.2  6,243.0 12,f9O.3  6,284.0 12,491.2 13,627.1 16,015.0
Replacaimnt lwestent            2,786.3 5,043.1         6,5S5.8 S,230.0  7,3.8 s,OnO.o  7,975.3 S,S91.0  9,814.a  7,S0.0 11,752.9  7,500.0 11,M.7 14,776.2 14,890.0
Develapunt Fuid Works             297.6  272.3           327.4  320.0   326.5  450.0   377.8  455.0   421.0   650.0   840.3   650.0  1,03S.0  1,060.2  1,450.0
Safety Fuid Wboks                 110.1  113.5           188.9  170.0   210.8  170.0   234.3  144.0   269.4   1SO.0   349.1   1SO.0   430.3   499.8   650.0
Total Capital Ifwestuent        9,401.0 11,535.3    0.0 12,655.7 11,874.0 13,531.6 9,137.0 1S,879.9 9,M.0 18,565.0 14,743.0 26,126.9 14,784.0 25,989.7 30,331.8 33,505.0
Dviduwd Paydule                 1,274.9 3,589.9         5,079.3 4,051.0  3,789.5 4,290.0  2,701.0 4,430.0  6,237.6  4,660.0  S,788.5  S,010.0  6,388.6  8,150.0  8,150.0
Loan Repqimmts                   112.4   118.4          140.5  247.0   162.3  221.0   212.2  134.0   243.9   165.0   299.3   217.0   345.8   430.4   518.S
Debt Service                    1,387.3 3,708.3    0.0 S,219.8 4,298.0  3,951.8 4,511.0  2,913.2 4,564.0  6,481.5  4,82.0  6,087.8  5,227.0  6,734.A   8,580.4  8,668.5
............
Increasejoecrae Fuis              301.0 1,244.3          917.3  566.0   706.9  742.0   425.2   S88.0  (945.8) (1,481.0)   183.8 (1,26S.0)   485.0  (92.4) 2,32.s
Vaiation working capitat         (455.8)(2,189.6)      (1,457.4)  336.0   435.6  318.0   827.8  291.0  1,453.8   257.0  1,976.1   216.0  4,152.1  2,S69.8    M6.4
Total Short tem AWicatiam       1,232.5 2,763.0         4,679.7 5,200.0  5,094.3 5,571.0  4,166.2 S,443.0  6,989.5  3,601.0  8,247.7  4,178.0 11,371.5 10,197.8 11,9074
Total A4pticatio               10,633. 14,298.3        17,335.4 17,074.0 18,625.9 14,708.0 20,046.1 15,220.0 25,554.5 18,344.0 34,374.6 18,962.0 37,361.2 40,S29.6 4S,412.4
'K>



s*IUWA   lllUATlal AND 4 I1UTDWU 1,                                                     PaS  4
(MU  22t10-IUIET 1299WII)
PRlOJECt   LETION SPRT
INDIMN RAILITYS
INAlICIAL STAIBUITS
C198-1990. in thoswad Rf.)
Perforite trdiestors
t981 1982 9t 1986 t987                                                                                           19"8     1989     1990
-        -                      r                            -                      _                            - ___
Price Itdu(1 (  8 100)              100.0   112.5            121.2             136.5            145.3            1168.2                               1383.5 20.2    213.3
Working Ratioj                       0.86    0.76             0.72             0.72              0.716            0.72              0.71              0.71     0.65     0.69
RtetuOf Ra1.01    6.01                                      .151                              241              6.71              541               5.41     9.21     ne
Y, .                   1.0     1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0               1.0               1.0               1.0      1.0      We/
ODbt Srvice Coveae                   2.63    2.30             2.41             3.60              4.42             2.75              3.62              3.61     3.78     3.79
DRF/Gros Fixed Assets (1)             3.0C    4.31             6.31             9.0C              8.2              8.0X              9.41              8.9X     8.7S      ta
Amul Capitat Inest (curr Prices)    9,401  11,S3S           12,656            13,532           15.880           18,565            26,127             25,990   30.332   33,5S05
Arnl  CapitaIn lvest (1981 Prices)    9 401  10 251         10 44             9a912            10 930           12007             15,532             14,165   15 148   15.707
I seLf-f imiwcing                    U.7X   6361              47.21            66.01             fr.61            55.91             54.01             "4.2%    8UJ      56.2
work.   pn. per T.U.(Rs:curr Prfces)  0.065   0.071          0.081            0.09              0.102            0.106             0.113              0.122    0.124     Wa
brk. Eipen per T.U. (Rs:t98t Prices)  0.06S   0.063          0.066            0.068             0.070            0.069             0.067              0.067    0.062     Wva
Trffic (billion T.U.)               356.2   384.9            394.7            391.7             399.2            437.0             470.6              491.9   486.1    230.4
Pasers (billion p-bn)             206.6   220.8            226.9            222.9             226.6            240.6             256.S              269.4    263.7    280.4
Freight (billion t-kr)            147.6   164.1            167.8             168.8            172.6            196.4             214.1              222.5    222.4     0.0
Tariffs
Pasewefs   (ts.lp-b, cwrr pries)   0.04S   O.OS           0.058            0.068             0.072            0.080             0.087              0.086    0.103    0.105
Passener CRs.lp-b,. 1981 Prices)   0.045   0.045           0.048            0.050             0.050            0.052             0.052              0.847    0.652    0.019
Freight  lRr./t k r. r8nt Prices)   0.140   0.144          0.177            0.199             0.209            0.223             0.240              0.260    0.285    0.332
Freight tRs./tk, 1961 Prices)    0.110   O.128            0.146            0.146             O.14             0.144             0.143              0.147    0.142     Wa
Nmer of EqAloe  (ThdLawd)            1572    1575             184              1592              1603             161               1611               1617     1624
WSW Sill Off tlien ft: Crur Prices) V,l167  14.515        17,099            20413            23,534           27,069             33,297            39,873   43,905
1kg Sltl Oliion Its: 1981 Prices) 13,16?  12.899         14,113            14,952           16,198           17.507             t9,794            21,731   21.927       0
T.U. per Eploee                   226,559 244,368          249,192           246,068          249,014          270,930            292,142           304,199  299,323
I!



MIA                                                                  Are.. 3
RAILWAY HOOIZTION AND AiNt _,1C3 11                                                   Pe I
(LOAM 2219-1C10IT 1299-3N
PltOJET COPETLEIOt REPeT
1,010k RAILWAYS - ttACIAL STAT94TS 1961-90
Incea Statemeets
(Ro Hti I ion)
196        1962           196             11094            1965            1966              1967            19866    1M6     1990
Actal  Act Poject.  Actual Project.   Actual Pojct.   Actual ProJect.   Actual Project.   Actual Proet.   Actual   Acual   Act,et
Traffic  E;rIn                                            --          _ -----...-        _                                          _ _ _____________-
P     _eeaegera                           9,431.8  ,.173.4 9,840.0 13,216.6 11,942.0 15,201.1 .2.320.0 1S.6a3.? 12,730.0 19.01.4 13.140.0 22.344.4 13.SSO.O 23.147.7 27.262.4 29.420.0
Fir" Clae                                 911.5 1,095.9         1,298.5          1,802.s         1,314.9          1,691.7          2,09.7            2.343.S  2.,67.9  .3.99.6
Saggd Class                              7.813.8 e.7M.?        10,323.0         12.172.?        13..073.3        35.05.1           17.309.9         16.257.1 21.687.1 23,110.4
other Coa"Too                            1,157.1 1,267.8 1.29.0 1,600.3 1.896.0  1,665.6 1,440.0  1,797.5 1,440.0  2.104.6  1.520.0  2.934.S  1.660.0  2,S47.1  2,707.4  3,110.0
Friot                                     16,175.2 #,571.423,446.0 29.M.2 26,94.0 20,515.0 27,869.0 36,024.1 2,42.0 43,7.63,  25,323.0 51,232.4 2S.SU..0 59,919.5 56,431.1 76,110.0
eoteloe  Reven                            1,220.1 1,86.8  831.0 1,6".0  e76.0  1,720.8  910.0  1,240.5  940.0  1=.,           970.0  1,418.2  1,000.0  1.6.4  2,240.7  1.990.0
_u I                                       (257.6)  29.8)  483.0  (257.6)  400.0   (62.6)  460.0   (66.7)  600.0  (11.1)   2S0.0    (6.4)   811.0   (6.1)   8O.3)  C200.Oj
Orgem Traffic Ueee_                      2tt89.t5.s,651.8 15,651.0 44,87S.4 41,S20.0 50,404.1 42.409.0 56.567.6 a43.42.0 04,261.0 44.156.0 7.066.6 45.234.0 66.,22.5  d.452.9 107.320.0
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ u-
oe,ralt Suparlatendaen,                   1,420.3 1,56.1         1,623.4         2,e04.0          2,s36t.4         2,691.6          3,142.3           3,634.0  3.91.1.  4.363.6
Repair and mIntenee of P ereat gay        2,449.1 2,961.1         8,626.8          4,219.8         5,047.6          5,.62.4          S,S19.6           7,371.1  0.203.4  8.94.9
Repit and Iblet_enace Of 1ativ; Pomer     2.3S..4 2,670.,6 8,039.5                8,09.5           3.74s.7          4.821.9          5,27.8            5.54.4    626.6  6.725.?
Repel. *ad tbhmt_enc of Cariae an  aone   2,690.1 8,.4.0          4,317.9         4,e66.8          5.270.6          0,.00.4          6,90.5            7,.471.5  6.330.6  9,046.7
Repair "a thlnt c of Pleat  d  54u lpeet  1,344.4 1,56.6         .,677.7          2,217.7          2,862.2          3.290.?          3,616.6           ,6836.9  4.250.1  4,790.S
Oeratleg &EPene Relltee Stock aN  Rwepet_  2.384.6 8,06s.0        8,406.7         8,6.3            *4.265.9         4,r70.0          5,418.2           6,294.6  6.659.1  ,279.4
Operating Eapenee Taffic                  2,699.1 8..2            S,740.8         4,849.           4,904.0          s,4ss.9          0,391.0          7,748.1  9,440.4 114.91.7
eerabtlie EpeFa   .                       5,e09.3 0,903.6         7.63.?          6,747.8          9,760.0         10,672.5         12.059.6          12.55.7 18.653.2 14,740.6
S1tff Vefa  an Amenities                    966.1 1,10S.4         1,296.0          1,460.3         1,66.6           1,662.9          2.227.S           2,651.9  2.,39.4  8.142.9
l6acoloaeaiua, Varlee Uapeeee             1,469.2 1,69.1          1,66.0          2,207.3          2,437.6          8,eee.9          8.129.7           8.2.9  4,336.5  4,097.6
Pre,idalk Foed aN  teale,                 1,2U.ms 1,9.0           1,9a8.7         2,67.1           2,609.4         iI.M.$            4,745.3              c.o0  7,06.5     49.1
Niacellag                                 (,2.1-)(2,1916-)       (2,9170.6)       (3,7.0)         (4,193.9)        (5.218.4)         (6,418.2)          (156.6) (9.630.4)  (20.9)
To.ttl V       _.4Iagpeea               232.9".8 27,1s.S 27,14.08 1,7.9 80,160.0 8U6,8  20.02,.0 *40,715.3 8.1149.0 4,.451.4 61,657.0 es,005.6  2,234.0 6O,629.5 60,165.7 74,470.0
Caa GOae.aa from S1Uatime                 3,64.? 6,515.811 6,705.0 12,6.. 11,40.0 14,214.5  ,66.0 12,672. 12,60.0  178,6.6 12,471.0 22,61.0 18,060.0 24,2s.0 s2,404.1 32,0.0
ppoprlatIot to OW                         2,20.0 8,600 .0 8s,500.o . 0 M. 0  0.500  6,soo.0 S,00.0  8,s80.0 s,80.0  9,260.0  a,800.0 121,60.0  6,60o.0 1S,660.0 15,060.0 17.".10.0
Approrition   Pt n Noice Food               6400   950   965.0 1.480.0 1,40.0  1,625.0 1,7A0.0  2,210.0 1,190.0  200.0  2,150.0  3,150.0  2.300.0  4,500.0  S,S00.0  7.2000
ividend to Cenerl R_aeu                   3,258.6 8,564.? 8,76.0 4,869.6 4.6.O  4*,237.0 4,260.0  4,516.9 4,420.0  6,070.4  4.660.0  5,736.8  6,010.0  6.38.   7.256.S  7,6t6.7      LW
Wt Reault                                (2,568.9)  466.1  516.0 1,166.?  56.0  (847.5)  66.0 (2,496.)  678.0   979.2  (669.0)   262.5 (1,110.0)   (S3.0) 4.*47.6   SlS.S



ItQA                                                                  A-*. 3
RAILWAY ODOmIZATIMW  AO M AINtANC  11                                                 Pogo 2
(LOW 2219-IIqREIT 1299-IN
P0JECT ClFETI0N REPORT
6.len4  Shoo"., 19-1989
0R HillIion)
ASSE£ S                                      1981       1902            1963            1904             1968             1966              1937            1960     1909
-                                           Actual  Actwal Project.  Actual Prect.   Actual Proj4et.   Actual Project.   Actual Project.   Actual Project.   Actual   Acteel
Oce. PFied Aeet. (insl. Store.)         74,488.9 01,643.6 76,967.0 ss,622.0 83.14S.O  04.014.1 89.9,6.0 103,77.3 96.802.0 114,920.1 102,117.0 133,066.7 106,677.0 18.177S.5 172.34.2
lee1:epreciation Reere fed loaest"       4.918.7 ?.896.1 6,216.0 6.6.0.2 7,716.0  8.065.4 7,716.0  9,915.9 8.016.0 12,350.8 10,216.0 16,146.6 10,216.0 20,621.3 2.712.2
other Feed. lveeted                 8,04.7 9.064.4 9.265.0 9.650.9 9.266.0 10.272,7 9.488.0 10,960.9 9e,00.0 11,708.6 10,336.0 13.169.1  10,338.0 14,932.0 16,606.9
at Pie sd Aete                          60,93.6 66S.191.1 81,466.0 72,810.9 66.144.0 73,e78.0 72,479.0 62,666.5 79,176.0 90,760.7 61,863.0 103.731.0 06,123.0 116,222.2 129.078.1
FPD." ith Central C .                   16,021.2 17,764.0 8,484.0 19,062.0 6,019.0 20.661.0 6,761.0 22,710.5 7,349.0 22,6.s.8  s.868.0        *..068.0  4603.0 31.752.7 29,608.3
Long Ture Meets                         7984.7  ,74.84.1 66.940.0 91,872.9 72.163.0 96,339.0 79,240.0 106,567.0 86.527.0 118,611.2 87,431.0 129.799.0 90.7.0 147,974.9 159,470.4
&unry Dabtore                              240.7   303.6 4.618.0  37o.2 4.666.0   444.9 4,916.0   44.1 4,967.0   512.2  5.025.0   683.9  S.07.0    680.2    791.6
Raceivable on Traffic                    1,434.4 1,72S.3 4,200.0 1,963.6 4,536.0  2,046.1 4,854.0  2.114.6 8,148.0  2,227.9  8,402.0  2.266.2  5,618.0  2.492.4  2.64.7
Receivable from Government                 871.6   763.2           960.2           631.9            73.2             656.0             427.3             424.1  1.12S.S
Cah io HAn                               1,99.0 1,960.8 1,231.0 2,034.0 1.231.0  2.4e7.  1.231.0  1,611.6 1,231.0  2,143.6  1,231.0  3,046.3  1,231.0  3,217.6  3,760.1
ShoT Ter Asset                           4,213.7 4,m.6 10,249.0 S,366.2 10.613.0  8,910.4 11,001.0  5,167.7 11,343.0  s,69.7  11,658.0  8,423.7 I1,936.o  6,014.3  8,381.9
Total A*et                                63,1961.4 69,1S6.7 77,109.0 961,941.1 62,796.0 102,249.4 90,241.0 110,734.7 97.a70.0 119,160.9 99,o09.0 16,222.7 102,662.0 1S4,789.2 168,660.8
R8llmy Ree"o Peed. Avelable              0,484.7 8,425.1 8,434.0 4,803.2 6,019.0   ,4.0  6,76.0  6,392.7 7,349.0  3,692.4  8,868.0  6,133.5  4.603.0  6,944.1  6,162.1
Leon Capital                            60.093.5 66.960.5 66,400.0 72.810.9 72.760.0 7s,676.0 76,468.0 62,06.5 80,180.0 90,70.7 8,660.0 103,731.0 93,160.0 116,222.2 129.,7S.1
Provident Fend                           9.019.8 9.492.3        102.7.7          10,643.1         11,274.5         11,607.0          13.036.5          15,617.0 17.395.4
Stjeer ODpoest and Advane.t              2,517.0 2,646.6         3,961.1          4,223.2          S,043.3          8,330.3           6,096.0          9,191.   6.045.6
Toutl oultp                             70,904.7 84,744.3 71.084.0 1,8672.9 70,799.0 96,339.1 63,228.0 105,567.0 67,499.0 113.611.2 92,516.0 129,799.0 97,t73.0 147,974.9 IS9,470.4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- - -- - ------ - - - - -- -- -- - -- -- -- ,-,- -- .-- ..- - - -. - - - - - - -...  -.- -- -- .-
PerotIes                                   917.2 1,046.3         1,169.0          1,320.4          1,843.6          1,705 7           2,112.0          2,294.9  2.,50.7
Interdepartmental Traseactions           3,26.8 35,728.3         4,19I.2          4,901.0          3,62s.9          3,634.0          4,311.7           4,819.4  8,623.2
Totel Sbhrt Term Liabilitie              4,213.7 4,773.6 8,s3a.0 8,360.2 3,997.0  si910.4 7,01S.0  5,1677 10,371.0  ,6397  6,871.0  6,423.7  4,09.0  6.614.8  6.361.9
Total Liabilities                         83,198.4 09,516.1 77,189.0 6,941.1 62,r7e.0 102,249.S 90,241.0 110,734.7 97.8r.0 110,180.9 99,009.0 138,222.7 102,662.0 1S4.709.2 167,860.8



NDeIA                                                     Annes 
RAIWAY MOODIbeZATION AN MAINMANCE It                                       Pe. 3
----------_-_-------------------------
tLOAN 229-IN/CREDIT 1299-IN)
PRO.i2CT COMPLETION4 RET
I?QIAN RAILWAYS - FINACIAL STATEOETS 1981-90
Sources and Applicati.,. of Fund.
(Re Mi llion)
19d1  1982        1938            1984            t98s           180              1987           19S8    1989    1990
Actual  Actual  Actual Proajet.  Actual Project.  Actual Project.  Actual Proje)t.   Actul P ro;ect.   Actual   Actual   Actual
Not Revanuw                               1,274.9 4,030.6 S.,42.9 4.940.0 3.7"9.8  3,119.0 2,701.0  5,108.0 6,8118.7  3.821.0  6.808.4  3,900.0  7,231.5  7r3rs.3  e9.5D.0
Contribution to OlF                       2,282.0 8,38S.O 8,594.S  .000.0 8,83.3 7.8 000.0 t.t4t.6  8,300.0 9,268.6  6S,00.0 12,898.2  6.800.O  13,619.6 15,17.S 17,807.5
Open Lloe Wotris                            97.0   09.4   98.6  110.0   95.3   180.0  114.1   198.0  128.6   200.0   284.3   200.0   S10.6   868.S   600.0
Contribution to Pansein Fund                73.1  149.8  18.6  170.0  218.8   280.0  408.9   840.0  726.9   200.0    98S.0   210.0  2,075.6  1,781.6   448.2
Contribution to Safty Fund                  105.0  306.1   90.8   86.0   02.1    87.0   84.9    87.0  282.6    90.0   809.0    74.0   669.6   864.1   864.2
IStereat on Fund 8blnc..                   894.9  872.7  s8s.5  868.0  842.8   887.0  887.9   812.0  892.7   248.0   376.4   806.0   424.3   414.4   464.0
Cab Flo                                   4.176.9 8,201.8 11.848.6 10.694,0 18,068.8 11,028.0 12.241.6 11.O130 17,6380.  11,049.0 21,806.8 11.489,0 24,881.8 25,629.2 28,828.9
Cowvernant Contributione
Copital                                 S.1100 6,017.0 8.489.S 6,S30.0 S.061.2  3,68S.0 7,178.4  S,685.0 7,924.2  6.s00.0 12.9S0.3  6,500.0 12,492.1 13.27.1 16,01S.0
ctne                                      346.6                          495.9           626.1                    796.0   118.0   973.0   887.6  1,2738    868.6
Total Lont Tor Sourceo                   10.833.S 14,298.8 17,835.4 17,074.0 18,625.9 14,706.0 20,048.1 18,20.0 25,864.8 18.344.0 84,874.6 18,962.0 S7,861.2 40,829.6 4,412.4
APPLICATIONS
Open Lines Worb Charg.d                     97.0   89.4    9S.8  110.0   98.8    30.0  114.1   193.0  185.6   20.0   234.8   200.0   810.5   868.S   SO0.0
Erpanooon Inveetoet                       6,110.0 6,017.0  .401.8 6,044.0 8,061.2  8,S67.0 7,176.4  8,394.0 7,924.2  6,248.0 12,990.8  6,284.0 12,491.2 13,67.1 16,018.0
Raplacanant Invcetoant                    2,786.8 5,048.1 6,108.6 8,230.0 7,8S7.6  S,000.0 7r,978.8  891.0 9,614.8  7,800.0 11,782.9  7,800.0 11.722.7 14,77.2 14,800.0
DOv l_poont Fund Works                      297.6  272.8   27.4  820.0  826.5   480.0  877.8   4851.0  421.0   68.0   840.8   680.0  1,01S.0  1.060.2  1,480.0
Safety Fund Work                            110.1  118.8  198.9  170.0  210.6   170.0  2".8   144.0  2Se.4   160.0   84.1   180.0   48.8   499.6   68.0
Total Caoital inw.oetet                   9,401.0 11,385.8 12,688.7 11,874.0 13,831.6  9,137.0 18,679.9  9,777.0 13,868.0 14,748.0 26,126.9 14,784.0 2S,909.7 80,83l.8 88,801.0
ldend Praable                             1,274.9 8,891.9 8,079.8 4,061.0 8,769.8  4.260.0 2,701.0  4,430.0 6,27T.  4,660.0  8.7.8  5,010.0  6,866.6  6,2O0.0  8,18>.0
Lon Ropsy.nte                              112.4  118.4  140.8  247.0  162.8   221.0  212.2   184.0  243.9   148.0    29.8   217.0   848.8   430.4   818.8
Debt Servie                               1,Stt7.8 8,706.3 5,219.8 4,298.0 3,951.8  4*,11.0 2,913.2  4,864.0 6,461.5  4.28.0  6,067.8  S.227.0  6,784.4  8,60S.4  8,668.8
IncrSea/Decreaa Panda                      801.0 1,244.8  917.3  6S.0  706.9   742.0  426.2   S8.,0 (94-8) (1,481.0)   188.8 (1,265.0)   4SS.0  (982.4) 2,S32.5
Variation WorkIn Capital                   (45S.8)C2,1809.)(1,487.4)  336.0  488.6   "¶3.0   #7.8   291.0 1,468.6   2S7.0  1.976.1   216.0  4,1S2.1  2,569.6   680.4
Total Short Tor Appl$catlons              1,232.8 2.788.0 4,679.7 5,200.0 8,094.8  S.s,7.0 4,1Sft.2  8,448.0 0.   3,601.0  8,247.7  4.178.0 11,871.8 10,197.S 11,907.4
Total Applicatt;in                       10,63.5 14,21t8.8 17,88.4 17,074.0 18,2S.9 14,700.0 20,046.1 18.20.0 26,1554.5 18,844.0 34S74.S 18,962.0 373,81.2 40,909.0 48,412.4



/
INDIA                                               Amex 3
RAILIAY NODERMIZATION AND MAINTENANCE I                             Pa6e 4
....................................
(LOAN 2219-IN/lClDIT 1299-IN)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
.........................
INDIAN RAILWAYS - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1981-90
Performance Indicators
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985       1986    1987      1918    1969      1990
usuma     -      uuuuu   33.33   uuua                                          Sao= _   _   _   _    
Price Indox (1981 a 100)                        100.0   112.5   121.2   136.5   145.3    154.6   168.2    163.5   200.2    2133
Vorking Ratio                                    0.86    0.76    0.72    o.        0.76      0.72    0.7       0.71    0.60      0.69
Rate of Return                                    1.01    6.0X    7.6X    5.1X    2.6X        6.71     .IX     5.4"    9.2X      Wa
Liquidity Ratio                                   1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0       1.0     1.0       1.0     1.0      we
Debt Sevice Coverage                             2.63    2.30    2.41    3.60    4.42        2.7S    3.62     3.61    3.78      3.79
DRF/Sross Fixed Assets (M)                        3.01    4.3X    6.3X    9.01    8.21        8.01    9.41     8.9X    8.%       nWa
Gross Traffic Revenues( mittlion Rs.)          26,640  35,851  44376  s0,404  53,588   64,281  75,057 i84353  92,593  107,320
Anmsat Capitat tnestmet (current Prices)        9,401   11,535  12,6S6  13,532  1S,880   18,565  26,127   25,990  30,332   33,505
Arnwt Capitat Investent (1981 Prices)           9,401   10,251  10,44S   9,912  10,930   12,007  15,532   14,165  15,148   15,707
X self-financing                                 26.71   33.61   47.21   66.01   57.61    55.91   54.01    64.21   S8.8X    56.21
Working Expenses per T.U. (Rs. at current Prices  0.065   0.071   0.081   o.0n    0.102    0.106   0.113    0.122   0.124        ni/
working Experses per T.U. (Rs. at 1981 Prices)    0.065   0.063   0.066   0.068   0.070    0.069   0.067    0.067   0.062        niv
Traffic (billfon T.U.)                          3S6.2   384.9   394.7   391.7   399.2    437.0   470.6    491.9   486.1    280.4
Passngers (bittion p-km)                      208.6   220.8   226.9   2Z.9   226.6    240.6   256.5    269.4   263.7    280.4
Freight (bittlon t-km)                        147.6   164.1   167.8   168.8   172.6    196.4   214.1    222.s   222.4          0.0
Tariffs
Passengers (Rs./p-km, current prices)         0.045    0.051   0.058   0.068   0.072    0.080   0.087    0.086   0.103    0.105
Passeners (Rs./p-km, 1981 prices)             0.045   0.045   0.048   0.050   0.050    0.052   0.052    0.047   0.052    0.049
Freight (Rs./t-km, current Prices)            0.110   0.144   0.177   0.1°9   0.209    0.223   0.240    0.269   0.285         n"/
Freight (Rs./t-km, 1981 Prices)               0.110   0.128   0.146   0.146   0.144    0.144   0.143    0.147   0.142          Nla
NLeber'of Emptoyees (Thousand)                   1572    1575    1584    1592    1603       1613    1611      1617    1624
Wage Silt (ittion Rs. at current Prices)     13,167  14,51S   17,099  20.413  23,534   27,069  33,297   39,8n   43,905
Wage Sitt (Mittion Rs. at 1981 Prices)       13,167  12,899  14,113  14,952  16,198   17,507  19.794   21,731  21.92?            0
T.U. per Eptoyee (Thousands)                      227     24       249     246      249      271      292      304      299
K



Paae 37
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u U
*                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
tAILSA? NOERNIZATION AND NAINTNANCE PROJECT It
................................................
(LOAN 2210-IN/CREDIT 1299bIN)
PROJECT CONPLETIO REFCRt
.................I........
PIMFORNANCE INDICATORS FP12-90
FY2   FY83   FY66  FY85  "F6   FY37   FMY8   FY          F90
t.    TIFFIC                                  .................  ...... ...... ...... ............ ......
Frelght (btb)                            164    168    169    173    196    214    m       222    229
Ss*urbmn as. (btkan)                      44     46     42     44     45      48     52     52    N.A
umk-sub. Puss (btku)                     177    181    181    162    19M    208    218    212    U.A
It.    TRAFFIC UNITS/ENPLOYEE (000)             244    249    246    249    270    292    304    299    N.A
111. AVAILABILITY (X) - ROAD GAME
................... .......................... . ........
Locomotives - Dieset                    83.8   83.6  82.2   82.0   81.3  88.1   88.1  89.1   90.7
Locomtives - Electric                   78.6  76.5  75.9   76.9  79.8  90.5   87.8  90.5    *.A
Vagons                                  93.5  92.6   93.5   94.1   94.9   95.4   95.4  95.4    N.A
Passenger Coaches                       84.3  84.9  86.1   86.6  87.4  90.8  89.6  90.8   *.A
IV.   LQOCOOTIVE UTILIZATION
......................
(km/avail Loco/day-8G)
P enpr * Disel                           671    664    696    746    764    739    766   7S9    I.A
Passeer - Eletric                        453    458    428    438    448    458    44    482    I.A
Freight - Diol                          347    364    388    407    416    427   45r   457    "1
Freight - Electric                      355    380    396    385    395    400    410    405    402
V.    WAGON UTILIZATION
km/wagon/day/BG                          1112   1123   1112   1150   1296   1420   149   1453   1475
VI.   GRO0S TRAILING LOAD PER
.............................
Train (tome) 80                         1780   1760   1787   1843   1955   1999   2050   2054    N.A
VII.  NET TONNE LOAD PER FREIGHT
TRAIN (TOINE) SG                         911    898    892    922   1001   1031   1053   1042    A.A
..........................
VIII.  FINANCIAL
Working Ratio                             76     72   0.72   0.76   0.72   0.71   0.71   0.65   0.69
Rat* of Return                           6.0    7.6    5.1   .2.6    6.7    5.8    5.4    9.2.   U.A
X self-financing                          34     47     66     S8      56     54     6      S9/    56
Debt Service Coverage                    2.3     24    3.6    4.4    2.8    3.6    3.6    3.8    3.8



