Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3396-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION AND
SDR 184.7 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
OCTOBER 25, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1982)
US$1.00      =  Rs 9.686157
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.103240
Rs 1 million = US$103,240
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AC      -        Alternative Current
BG      -        Broad Gauge
DC      -        Direct Current
DCW     -        Diesel Component Works
DSP     -        Durgapur Steel Plant
GOI     -        Government of India
IR      -       Indian Railways
kv      -        kilovolts
MG      -        Metre Gauge
MW      -        megawatt
NG      -        Narrow Gauge
NTPC    -        National Transport Policy Committee
OIS     -        Operating Information System
RTEC    -        Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee
Ton-km  -        Ton-kilometer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:             Indian Railways (IR).
Amount:                  Bank Loan:   US$200 million, including capitalized
front end fee.
IDA Credit: SDR 184.7 million
(US$200 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Bank Loan:   Repayment over 20 years, including
5 years' grace at the applicable rate of
interest; front end fee of 1.5% of the
base loan amount.
IDA Credit: Standard.
Relending Terms:         The Government of India (GOI) will on-lend the
proceeds as GOI's capital-at-charge to IR in
accordance with its standard arrangements for
financing IR capital expenditure programs. IR pays
a dividend on the total capital-at-charge at a rate
determined by GOI, currently about 6%. per annum.
GOI is to carry the exchange risk.
Purpose:                The purpose of the proposed project is to upgrade
the maintenance and reliability of the fleet of
existing diesel and electric locomotives in the
IR network; to continue a program of modernization
of IR's electric locomotives; and to improve the
technology, design and operation of IR's bulk
freight movements. The project consists of:
(a) the construction and equipping of a maintenance
facility, the Diesel Component Works (DCW), for
remanufacturing diesel electric locomotives and
locomotive components and assemblies, and the
import of wheels, axles, and components for
expanding the unit exchange system in the major
maintenance workshops and running repair facilities;
(b) the import of up to 20 complete prototype AC
electric locomotives for testing under Indian
operating conditions preparatory to choosing the
new generation of mainline locomotives and
establishing a manufacturing facility in collabora- -
tion with the selected supplier;
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
4  .
(c) the acquisition of components for the
construction of about 11,300 high-capacity wagons;
and,
(d) the provision of technical assistance and
training for IR staff in the operation of the DCW
plant and for testing new wheel/axle/suspension
(bogie) configurations to be used in future
IR fleet expansion efforts.
Estimated Project
Costs: a/
US$ Millions
Local        Forelgn          Total
A. Maintenance Improvements:
Diesel Component Works (DCW)          63.9           55.3          119.2
Unit Exchange System Expansion:
(i) Locomotive components           180.3           82.5          262.8
(ii) Wheels and Axles                 69.7          174.2          243.9
Subtotal                   313.9          312.0          625.9
B. Prototype AC Electric
Locomotives for Testing                 22.5           45.0           67.5
C. High-Capacity Wagon Manufacture:
(i) Components                      116.8          145.0          261.8
(ii) Fabrication and Misc.           240.4            -            240.4
Subtotal                     357.2          145.0          502.2
a/ Including an estimated US$200 million in taxes and duties.



-iii-
US$ Millions
Local         Foreign         Total
D. Technical Assistance and Training:
(i) DCW                               0.5             0.9            1.4
(ii) Bogie Testing                      1.4            2.0            3.4
(iii) Fuel Conservation and Train
Operation Improvement           6.0            6.3            12.3
Subtotal                        7.9            9.2           17.1
Total Project Cost            701.5          511.2        1,212.7
Front end fee on Loan           -              3.0            3.0
Total Financing Required    701.5            514.2 1/    1,215.7 1/
Financing Plan:                IBRD           -            200.0          200.0
IDA            -            200.0          200.0
GOI          701.5          114.2          815.7
701.5          514.2        1,215.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD/IDA FY          FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual                7.0    37.0   112.0   145.0    89.0    10.0
Cumulative            7.0    44.0   156.0   301.0   390.0   400.0
Rate of Return:    Weighted average 24%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3431-IN, dated October 26, 1982.
1/ Including payment of front-end fee of US$3 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE SECOND RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and development credit to India for US$200 million and SDR 184.7 million
(US$200 million equivalent) respectively on standard terms to help finance
the upgrading of the Indian Railways (IR) rolling stock and motive power.
The Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the loan and
credit to Indian Railways in accordance with GOI's standard terms and
arrangements for financing Indian Railways.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
700 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over the
past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0%
per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Krishna-Godavari Petroleum Explora-
tion Project (No. P-3386-IN), dated September 16, 1982.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time,
foreign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been
low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external
assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end
of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 19i0s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph
3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in
recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and
domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe
inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price
stability. The impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian
economy, particularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be
needed for some years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is
almost completed and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.



-3-
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As
constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued
to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend
in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average
annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less
than 2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions,
combined with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp
decline in the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite
substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends
suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the
balance remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to
time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being
felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild
depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the
ability of the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the
production shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms
demonstrate the flexibility and resilience provided by the public foodgrain
system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.



-4-
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 19709, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high
and further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be
increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the
Government has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the
public sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and
subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public
sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated 1IF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed
commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were
contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has
maintained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.



-5-
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of
manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic
infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and
ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there is
considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its
long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are
introduced. There will be a need also for continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of private savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As
demonstrated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors
can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of



-6-
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the
requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and
long-term prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate
balance b-tween supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to
sustain. Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's power
deficit will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project
implementation and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For
railways, real investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections
and will need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if
serious bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price
increases for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled
expansion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current
46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up. These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of
payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an important
element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be
adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is currently in a



-7-
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels
of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets.
Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as intended by the
Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level of commercial
borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher
levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a key element
in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment
requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that
India has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends
substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to
remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by
adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a
rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per
annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about
12 million higher than official projections. The fact that there was no
decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2%
per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this
rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable
decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. Until full
details of the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for
this outcome are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need
for continuing efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in
the Sixth Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to
over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living
standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of
the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and
employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment
opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem in large
part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by
appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and
infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970
and 1981 resulting from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural



-8--
production, reflects such developments. There is also a role for direct
Government action in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through land redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans, and finally in broadening the provision of those
services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living
standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program,
which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade.
Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the
extension of rural health facilities and the provision of secure village
water supplies. Operations such as the community health volunteer program
and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence that
well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects
for India-s poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 68 loans and 153 development
credits to India totalling US$4,095 million and US$10,956 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,280 million has been
repaid, and US$5,291 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1982 totalled US$287 million, representing an increase of about
76 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$219.6
million, of which US$26.4 million has been repaid, US$55.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$130.1 million,
US$121.9 million represents loans and US$8.2 million equity. A summary
statement of IFC operations as of September 30, 1982, is also included in
Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country s development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic
agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing,
storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also
been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while
curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks
which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power
generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through
its support of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance
of improving the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural
populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning



-9-
programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and
other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas resources
is a central element of this program, which should be supplemented by
investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expansion of
the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to increase
the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short supply
and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also receive
high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transportation
infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher levels of
economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to



-10-
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1982, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$2,922 million, of which
US$1,308 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$1,614 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In
1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
29.     Road and rail transport are the dominant modes of transport
throughout India, with the railways system providing mainly trunk services
and the highway system functioning mainly as a feeder system to the railways
or for short-haul transportation needs where there are comparative cost
advantages over the railways. Other modes of transport are, at present, of
minor importance as general goods and passenger carriers: coastal shipping
and pipelines each carry about three percent of the total freight traffic
in terms of ton-kilometers, and air transport about one percent of total
passenger-kilometers. These modes are, however, important within their
specialized areas and there is scope for considerable expansion within each
mode.
30.     The transport sector plays a vital role in India.  Virtually all the
other sectors are dependent on efficient and reliable transport services and
the railway system is a key determinant in the efficient operation of each of
these sectors. It is, therefore, of paramount importance that the transport
sector generally, and the railway system in particular, does not become an
obstacle to development and that the vital production activities of the
economy are not hindered by inefficiencies in this sector.
31.     There has been, in the last two decades, a decline in investments for
the development of the transport system relative to development investments
elsewhere in the economy. Expressed as a percentage of total investment by
Plan period, GOI investment in the transport sector decreased from a very
substantial 24% in 1956/57-1960/61 to 14% in 1974/75-1977/78, although in
absolute terms the investment increased from Rs 11,040 million to Rs 41,370
million (in current terms) during this time. However, actual expenditures
did not reach this level because the 1974-79 Plan was cut short when the
Congress Government was defeated in 1978. The Sixth Five Year Plan calls for
a 10% allocation for the period 1980/81-1984/85, amounting to over
Rs 100 billion, of which Rs 51 billion (US$5,667 million) is targeted for
railways.



-1 1-
32.     There have also been significant shifts in the volume, origin and
destination of traffic flows over the past two decades. There is more
movement of foodgrain traffic in the north-south direction as imports of
these items have virtually ceased and restrictions on foodgrain transport
have been lifted. Fertilizer imports through the cities of Madras and Bombay
have increased, as have cement movements in the east-west direction. These
changes have had a significant impact on the railway's operations where,
inter alia, average leads 1/ for most freight movements have increased. In
the case of foodgrains, the lead has increased by 42% in the past five years,
thus tying up freight wagons and motive power for longer periods per movement
and thereby decreasing effective freight capacity. Furthermore, the road
transport system, which was never designed to carry bulk traffic volumes over
long distances, is being forced to carry-some freight that the rail system
cannot carry, at a higher cost to the economy. All of these factors have
contributed to supply shortages of vital commodities such as coal, cement and
fertilizer and, coupled with freight congestion in the main ports, the result
has been a series of dislocations in critical economic sectors in the past
few years.
33.     The Indian transport sector is under the jurisdiction of various
Ministries: ports, shipping and roads are under the Ministry of Shipping and
Transport; railways are under the Ministry of Railways; civil aviation is
under the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation; and pipelines are under the
Ministry of Petroleum. A number of Committees at the Cabinet and Secretarial
level are involved in transport coordination, but no single unit below the
Prime Minister has complete responsibility for coordination. While railways
are exclusively under the Central Government, highways and road transport,
minor ports and inland water transport are the joint responsibility of
Central and State Governments. Given the importance of coordinated policy
formulation, the National Transport Policy Committee (NTPC), supported by a
study group within the Planning Commission, has prepared a framework for
overall transport planning and coordination in India. The Committee's
report, presented to the GOI in 1980, contains sound recommendations that
will provide a framework for better development of the country's transport
sector. GOI approved most of NTPC's recommendations in a Cabinet Resolution
in March 1982 and the country is now beginning to implement them. GOI has
emphasized its commitment to the continued expansion of the transport sector,
with particular emphasis on facilitating road transport in rural areas, the
encouragement of increased efficiency of railway transport, and
discouragement of growth and congestion of the central business districts of
large metropolitan areas.
The Railway Sector
34.     The backbone of India's internal freight and passenger transportation
system is the railway, which carries two-thirds of the total freight traffic
1/   "lead" - the average distance travelled.



-12-
and nearly one-half of the passenger traffic. The railway has the crucial
responsibility of moving traffic over long hauls from the few concentrated
centers of manufacture and trade, from the localized production centers of
commodities such as steel, cement and coal and from the (essentially
northern) foodgrain surplus centers to all domestic markets throughout India.
Agricultural and mineral products account for an estimated 70% of total
freight movements. Transport capacity to be planned and provided by the
railway is therefore closely tied to foodgrain requirements and to the needs
of the coal, power, steel, and cement sectors and related heavy industries as
well as to passenger movement requirements.
35.     GOI owns and operates the railway system through Indian
Railways (IR). IR's operations are large, with assets of some Rs 75 billion
and 1.7 million employees, and are controlled and directed by a board of five
members headed by a chairman who is, ex-officio, a Principal Secretary to the
Government, reporting to the Minister of Railways. The Board performs the
dual functions of a Secretariat to the Minister of Railways and of an
executive body responsible for railway operations. The quality of senior
staff is excellent and their knowledge of modern railway technology is good.
36.     The last 25 years of planned development of the IR has brought about
extensive changes in the mode of traction from steam to diesel and electric.
About 3,000 diesel and electric locomotives introduced since 1960 now carry
about 80% of the total freight traffic. During the same period, the number
of freight wagons in the fleet has grown two and a half times to about
400,000 wagons and the passenger stock has doubled to about 35,000 coaches.
About 7,500 steam locomotives remain in service. The network is divided into
nine Zonal Railways, each with its own General Manager and staff. There are
two factories manufacturing locomotives, one manufacturing rolling stock, and
a fourth is under construction for the manufacture of wheels and axles (which
is partly financed under Credit 844-IN, see para 40); IR also owns 41
workshops undertaking regular or unscheduled heavy repairs of IR's
locomotives and rolling stock. There are also some 200 smaller
repair/maintenance workshops throughout the network. IR's track network is
split into three gauges: 62% of total track is broad gauge (BG), 34% is metre
gauge (MG) and the remaining 4% is narrow gauge (NG). About 15% of BG track
and 1% of MG track is electrified.
37.     The rail network performance over the past decade has been mixed.
For freight, originating tonnage has increased from 197.8 million tons to
244.7 million tons--but includes two years (1973/74 and 1974/75) when
originating tonnage was below the 1971/72 figure and two other years (1977/78
and 1978/79) when tonnage dropped below the 1976/77 performance. Passenger
traffic has grown in a similar stop/start pattern from 1275 million
originating suburban and 1261 million originating non-suburban passengers to
2100 and 1720 million passengers, respectively. The reasons for the variable
growth in freight and passenger traffic (with its corresponding adverse
effect on IR's profitability) are many, and include "external" factors -
those that are outside IR's control - such as civil disturbances and labor
unrest; "sectoral" factors - those that are peculiar to IR's business - such
as inefficiencies by the major users in wagon unloadings; "equipment"



-13-
factors - such as lower-than-normal locomotive and rolling stock reliability
due to poor maintenance or worn-out/outdated equipment being kept in service;
and "internal" or management-related factors - such as the lack of
sophisticated financial and operational control systems and associated
communications networks that are essential to efficient railway management.
GOI/IR is keenly aware of these causative factors and is committed to
improvements. The proposed project will address the more urgent "equipment"
and "internal" factors as part of a coordinated GOI/IR/Bank Group effort to
improve IR's efficiency. Some improvements have already resulted from GOI/IR
initiatives begun in November 1980 1/ and freight movements for 1981/82 are
projected at 174 million ton-km, nearly a 10% increase over the previous
year. Further improvement is necessary, however, as the freight traffic
demand is projected to be as high as 198 million ton-km by 1984/85.
The Bank's Role in the Sector
38.     Bank Group lending in the transport sector started in 1949 with a
railway loan and since has included ports (Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta),
rural roads, highway projects, urban transportation (Calcutta and Bombay),
oil tankers and a pipeline. Substantial indirect support to the sector has
also been provided through industrial import credits under which imports of
material and components for manufacture were financed. The railway sector in
the past 32 years has received direct assistance totaling US$1,086 million
through 14 loans and credits.
39.     Through the first six loans and seven credits, approved between 1949
and 1975, the Bank Group assistance to IR totaled US$896.5 million. The main
objective of the assistance consisted of the rehabilitation and subsequent
modernization of railway infrastructure, motive power and rolling stock and
improvement in operating efficiency, administration and planning. These
loans and credits covered foreign exchange for acquisition of materials,
parts and components for manufacture and maintenance of motive power and
rolling stock, machinery and plant, and materials and equipment for line
improvement works and telecommunications. In the 32 years since the first
Bank loan to IR, the main railway infrastructure has been substantially
improved, and domestic production commenced for diesel and electric
locomotives, coaches and wagons, and has resulted in an improved motive power
and rolling stock fleet.
40.     In the most recent project (Credit 844-IN of 1978), Bank Group
support has been directed at improving the utilization of existing IR
assets - modernization of maintenance workshops, import of spare parts and
of raw materials and components for the maintenance of existing locomotives
and manufacture of wheels and axles to meet existing demand. In addition
to financial assistance, there have been many visits by Bank Group staff and
1/   IR's initiative in operating more unit trains on specific high-volume
bulk freight routes and by-passing intermediate yards has substantially
increased daily wagon loadings on the broad gauge system.



-14-
consultants to review and discuss heavy engineering, electric and diesel
traction technology, maintenance, telecommunications, organization and
computerized operating information systems. The substance of these review
missions has been discussed with GOI - especially the Ministries of Railways,
Finance, and Industry and the Planning Commission - and has assisted IR in
identifying its investment priorities and developing programs for addressing
them.
41.     Project performance audits have been carried out for Credits 280-IN
and 448-IN and the audit findings are contained in Report No. 1658 of
June 30, 1977. The report found that the projects were implemented on time
and the re-estimated rates of return were similar to the appraisal forecast.
Because of unusual economic and political circumstances, the financial
situation of IR deteriorated during the twelfth project period (Cr. 448-IN)
but improved in the mid 1970s. The report also found, as the Government
itself found, that transport planning and coordination remained rather weak.
In 1978 GOI set up the National Transport Policy Committee (NTPC) and its
report, presented to GOI in May 1980, has resulted in the appointment of a
high level committee to review and implement the recommendations contained
therein (see para 33 above). Overall, the report concluded that IR's
performance had been satisfactory and that GOI/IR have sought to meet the
covenant requirements set out in the various Credit Agreements. A project
completion report has been prepared for the thirteenth project
(Credit 582-IN), of August 1975. The project was completed on time and
within cost estimates. The Project Performance Audit Report for this project
is under preparation. Credit 844-IN is disbursing more slowly than projected
at appraisal due to delays in equipment deliveries. Commitments, however,
are on schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The project was prepared by Indian Railways with the assistance of
Bank Group staff. It was appraised initially in January 1981 and
re-appraised in June 1982. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, The
Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project" (No. 3431-IN) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in September 1982. The Government of India and Indian
Railways were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. Misra,
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Description
43.     The objective of this project is to continue the Bank Group's
assistance, begun under the last Credit (844-IN), which is aimed at improving
the utilization of IR's existing assets - particularly rolling stock,
locomotives and the track network - by improving the maintenance and
reliability of the fleet of existing diesel and electric locomotives, by
initiating a program of modernization of IR's electric locomotives, by
improving the technology, design and operation of IR's bulk freight



-15-
movements, and by providing technical assistance in the fields of plant
operation, bogie testing and improved train operations and fuel efficiency.
44.     The proposed project has the following components:
(i) Maintenance
- the establishment and equipping of a workshop building and
associated machinery for the remanufacturing of diesel
electric locomotives and locomotive components and assemblies
at Patiala in the State of Punjab. This proposed plant,
named the Diesel Component Works (DCW), is expected to begin
production in 1985-86, and
- the import of wheels, axles and other critical parts and
components 1/ during the period 1983/84-1985/86 to further
expand the Unit Exchange System initiated under the ongoing
Credit 844-IN.
(ii) The import of up to 20 prototype modern AC electric locomotives
during 1984-85 for testing in the Indian environment. In the light of future
operating and service requirements, it is necessary to introduce a modern
design, high-adhesion, reliable AC electric locomotive capable of hauling
trains of 4,500 tons on all IR 25kv electrified track. Domestic development
of such a new locomotive would delay the substantial benefits to be obtained
from these locomotives by five to seven years. Leading manufacturers will be
invited to provide prototype locomotives for testing in India, and on
selection, suitable collaborative production arrangements would be arranged
with the selected manufacturer.
(iii) The import of bogies 2/, bearings and corrosion-resistant steel
for the manufacture of 11,300 high capacity freight wagons. Traffic
development for bulk commodities, especially minerals, requires greater
efficiency in transport to reduce costs. GOI has decided during the Sixth
Plan period to support the domestic manufacture of 21,000 high-capacity
wagons using cast bogies, for which domestic manufacturing capacity is
limited and which utilize tapered roller bearings, for which there is
currently no domestic manufacturing capacity at all. The selection of only
11,300 wagons for purposes of this credit is related to the Bank Group's
assessment of available supplies and fabrication capacity for this type of
wagon during the project period.
1/   "Components" in this context refers to completely finished units (e.g.,
turbochargers, control units, etc.) as distinct from "parts" which could
be any single item such as a bolt, gearwheel, etc.
2/   A wheel/axle/suspension unit.



-16-
(iv) Provision of technical assistance and training for IR staff in
the operation of the DCW plant, for testing new bogie configurations and for
initiating work on fuel conservation and train operation improvements.
45.    The need for modern management tools has been recognized by GOI/IR.
Given the size of IR's network and asset base, the lack of a real time
Operating Information System (OIS) is hampering efficiency at all levels of
operation - motive power deployment, maintenance scheduling, inventory costs
and rolling stock utilization. At the Bank Group's request, GOI/IR has
confirmed that an already existing OIS software and associated computer and
telecommunications hardware would be purchased and adapted to IR's needs.
GOI/IR also confirmed that a study to clarify the management and
organizational aspects of IR's manufacturing units was underway and would be
completed by May 1983. IR's manufacturing capacity is growing and the Bank
Group sought and received assurances that the growth is coordinated and cost
effective - avoiding duplication of work, inventories and management
overheads. The recent report by the Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee (RTEC)
includes, inter alia, many recommendations for restructuring IR's tariffs.
Many of the recommendations have been implemented or are being implemented.
GOI/IR has provided information on the expected completion dates for the
remainder of the principal recommendations contained in that report.
Assurances have been obtained from GOI that passenger fares and freight rates
would be adjusted to enable IR to meet all operating expenses and make the
appropriate contributions to the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF) and payment
of dividends on Capital-at-Charge (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement). Other assurances from GOI/IR have been obtained that reflect the
Bank Group's concerns for the efficient utilization of IR's assets: IR is in
the process of clarifying its motive power policy, particularly with respect
to medium range (1,500-2,000 HP) diesel electric locomotives; IR is studying
and testing truck-and-wheel units to determine optimal sizes; IR has agreed
to expand the Unit Exchange component pool as agreed with the Bank Group
(Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement); and IR has provided
assurances that appropriations to the DRF shall be not less than Rs 21,000
million in aggregate for the period April 1, 1983 to March 31, 1985
(Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing 1/
46.     IR's investment program for the period 1980/81 to 1984/85 totals
about Rs 51 billion (US$5.67 billion). The proposed project, which forms
part of the program is estimated to cost Rs 10,942 million (US$1,216
million), including US$200 million in duties and taxes. The foreign exchange
1/   Project cost estimates are based on January 1982 prices and include
price contingencies averaging 8.0% per annum for local costs and 8.5%
per annum for foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 10% in the cost
of civil works for the DCW plant and 7.5% for cost of machinery in that
plant are included. The exchange rate was assumed to be US$1.00 -
Rs 9.0.



-17-
component of the project is estimated at US$514 million. The economic case
for the proposed project rests on a reduction in maintenance and operating
costs of motive power and rolling stock throughout the system, as well as on
a more efficient handling of heavy bulk (coal, iron ore and other minerals)
which constitutes one of IR's principal commodity groups. With the project,
IR will be able to make better use of its assets and to accelerate its
improvement in performance in order to allow it to meet the increasing
demands of the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year Plans, while avoiding a larger
share of long haul goods from being diverted to the more costly road
transport system.
47.     The proposed loan and credit will provide 39% of the total project
cost, net of duties and taxes, and 78% of the foreign exchange costs. The
balance would be financed by GOI/IR through retained earnings and GOI
Capital-at-Charge infusions.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.     Items financed by the Bank Group will be procured by IR in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. All equipment and materials will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) except for:
(i) contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or less which, in aggregate,
would amount to less than US$10 million equivalent;
(ii) proprietary items costing, in aggregate, up to US$5 million
which IR procures from dedicated sources, either due to licensing
requirements or the need for continued equipment standardization; and,
(iii) the prototype electric locomotives for the trials, which would
be procured by soliciting proposals from all qualified manufacturers and
evaluating them on the basis of technical and economic merits, to select up
to four but not less than two of the most advantageous types for import and
testing (Schedule 3, paragraph C of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.     Credit proceeds will be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on items eligible for
financing or 70% of the cost of locally procured "off-the-shelf" items. It
is proposed to allow savings in any category of expenditure under the loan
and credit to be used to cover increases in any other category except for
proprietary items. Retroactive financing for amounts not exceeding
US$5 million (equivalent) will be permitted for expenditures made after
November 1, 1981 in respect of process engineering costs for the DCW,
preparatory costs for testing of AC electric locomotives and other project
related costs (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement of the loan and credit is expected to be completed by June 30,
1987 and the closing date would be September 30, 1987.



-18-
Project Management and Implementation
50.     IR will be the executing agency for all portions of the proposed
project and will implement the project as part of its on-going works and
manufacturing program. IR has shown itself to be experienced in managing
construction, equipment installation, testing and commissioning of
large-scale plants and other major project undertakings.
51.     The necessary land has been acquired for the DCW plant and general
design work completed. The facility will cover some 50 hectares and employ
around 2,600 staff in a two-shift operation. The project has been designed
with due regard to environmental and worker safety aspects and is within the
required standards. No significant adverse environmental impact is expected
from the project. The total DCW peak load power requirement is estimated at
5 MW. The Punjab Electricity Board has agreed to supply power to the plant
in accordance with the phased requirements indicated to them. Also, the
Punjab State Government has assured a reliable water supply, and no water
problem is expected since the shop's daily estimated consumption is very low.
Within IR itself, a DCW management team has been appointed and final process
engineering has already started. Construction commenced in January 1982.
Machinery and plant procurement is to begin in January 1983 and be completed
by October 1984. The 1985/86 production is to be about 40% of gross rated
annual capacity, at least 70% in 1986/87, and at least 90% thereafter
(Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).  The prototype AC
locomotives are expected to be imported and tested according to an agreed
schedule during the period 1983/84 and 1985/86. Procurement of imported
items for the unit exchange and freight wagon program will occur between
January 1983 and March 1985.
52.     With the increasing size and complexity of IR's manufacturing
operations it is clear that the logistics of inventory control and
maintenance scheduling are becoming more difficult within the existing
management processes and IR has agreed that an alternative organization
structure and new management tools may be necessary. To this end, a
corporate-wide review of IR's manufacturing activities is being planned to
ensure that an appropriate institutional capability is in place when the new
facilities come on stream. The study details were discussed during
negotiations. The Management Information System designed specifically for
the IR manufacturing plants and developed under Credit 844 would also be
introduced at the DCW during the proposed project.
Indian Railways' Financial Performance
53.     IR continues to earn a net revenue after covering all its operating
expenses, including depreciation. The net revenues in 1979/80 and 1980/81
declined resulting in IR not being able to meet full payment of dividend on
its Capital-at-Charge to GOI.  A number of factors have contributed to this
situation. First, the average earnings per ton-km and passenger-kilometer
have not grown as quickly as IR's costs, especially fuel costs and
appropriation to the depreciation fund. Secondly, the revenue earning
freight traffic had declined in those years, contributing to deterioration in



-19-
profitability - since the predominant share of IR costs is fixed.
Historically, GOI has kept tariffs at levels much below the increases in the
cost of IR's inputs or changes in general price levels. In addition, IR had
to absorb losses on such services as suburban and short distance travel,
unremunerative lines, etc. These are termed as "social burden" costs by IR
and during FY80 and FY81 were estimated at Rs 2,400 million and Rs 4,200
million, (almost 10% and 16% of revenues), respectively.
54.     There is evidence of considerable recent improvement however.  IR's
estimated freight traffic in 1981/82 indicates a significant increase in
volume of nearly 10%, which will yield IR a net revenue surplus of Rs 518
million after dividend payment. For the subsequent period FY83-87, estimates
indicate that, at present April 1982 tariff rates, and including the
absorption of their social burden costs, IR would cover all operating
expenses and meet full dividend payment for FY83-85. Shortfalls are
projected for FY86-87. IR's operating ratio is expected to increase from
89.3% in FY82 to 92.0% in FY87.
55.     GOI recognizes the need for additional remedial measures and
increases in revenue beyond the April 1982 rates. In 1980 the Government
appointed RTEC issued its report on a study of IR's freight rates, passenger
fares and operational efficiency, and GOI policies with regard to IR. The
report favors a basic restructuring of tariffs and financial policies,
management reforms and government subsidy of mandated, but unprofitable
(strategic or other) lines. A program for implementing the key
recommendations is now under way within GOI/IR and the details were discussed
during negotiations. The net effect of these recommendations will be to
place IR's operations on a commercial footing. The recommendations have been
endorsed by IR and a special cell has been created within IR to work out the
details of implementing the 386 recommendations contained in the five-volume
report. Agreement was reached that ensures tariff levels would be maintained
and increased as necessary to enable IR to meet all operating costs and
provisions for asset replacement and pension fund allocations.
(Section 4.02, of the Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Justification and Risks
56.     The economic rate of return for the DCW Plant is expected to be about
28%; the Unit Exchange Program return is about 19%; and the return on the
Wagon Manufacture portion of the credit is about 29%. The weighted average
economic return for the whole project is 24%. No separate economic rate of
return is calculated for those items that are essentially of a development
support nature - the importing of 20 AC electric locomotives, and technical
assistance. Significant changes in assumptions regarding the major cost
components were analyzed. For the DCW, analyses indicate that if the
benefits go down by 20%, the economic rate of return (ERR) drops to about
12%; if the costs were to increase by 15%, the ERR would be reduced to about
16%, and if both elements change in adverse directions but in realistic
combinations (e.g, (i) benefits go down by 15% and costs go up by 10%, the
ERR=11%; (ii) benefits go down by 10% and costs go up by 20%, ERR=10%, the
ERR would still be acceptable). For the wagon manufacture portion, a



-20-
reduction in benefits of 20% would yield an ERR of 23%, while an increase in
costs of 20% would yield an ERR of 24%. This component, however, is more
sensitive to variations in the turnaround time of the unit train. Should the
turnaround time increase from five to seven days on average, ERR would
decrease to a still acceptable 20%. A similar analysis for the Unit Exchange
component, though difficult to quantify, indicates that more pessimistic
assumptions affect the overall return very little.
57.     All project components involve proven technology, except for the
testing and research elements for which technology is well established in
other parts of the world; technological risks connected with the project are
therefore small. Additionally, in the past IR has successfully implemented
similar projects in a timely manner, and has built up competent managerial
and technical expertise. Risks from inadequate project implementation are
therefore negligible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.     The draft Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement between
India and the Bank and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
E. Stern
October 25, 1982



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page  1  of  5
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                       MDST RECENT ESTIMATE_
TOrAL          3287.6                               MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2             1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASIA 6 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 70.0      110.0    240.0             261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    111.2      152.5    194.4             448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUIATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9      19.7      22.3             17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                    132.3       166.6    200.6             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   247.0      307.8    362.8             355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       40.9        42.7      40.2             36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                       54.5        54.2      56.8             59.7                   56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 4.6         3.1       3.0              3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8        2.3       2.1              2.0                    2.3
URBAN                            2.5         3.3       3.3              3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7       40.0      35.6             29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8       16.7      13.6             11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            2.9         2.7       2.4              2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..       12.0      22.6             19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        98.0       102.0      99.0            108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 95.6        90.4      88.8/c           97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        53.6        49.7      48.4/i           56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      17.2       14.8      13.1/i           20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    26.2       20.7      17.4             10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2       48.1      51.8             57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        165.0       139.0    123.4              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        17.0      33.0             32.9                   32.0
URBAN                             ..        60.0      83.0             70.7                   51.9
RURAL                             ..         6.0      20.0             22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0      20.0             18.1                   37.7
URBAN                             ..        85.0      87.0             72.7                   65.7
RURAL                             ..         1.0       2.0              4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        4850.4      4889.0   3630.6            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d   8296.5   5696.1           4929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2178.7     1612.9   1311.0/e          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                             ..          ..    362.3/;i          301.3                  651.6
RURAL                             ..          ..  10432.8/e          5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..               ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2        5.6       5.2
URBAN                            5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                            5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            2.6         2.8
URBAN                            2.6         2.8       ..
RURAL                            2.6         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA-SOCIMAL INDICATORS DATA SHZIT
INDIA                    IZFIRENCE GROUPS (WEITHTED AVnOZS
- MDST RCEN? ESTIMATEY
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE iEtCHN
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTDIATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          AUIA A PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJISYED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYi    TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      78.0/c            97.4                     96.2
MALE                 80.0        90.0      92.0/i            101.0                    99.6
rEMALE               40.0        36.0      63.0/j;            87.                     92.1
SECONDARYt   TOTAL                20.0        26.0       27.0/e            33.0                    37.6
MALE                 30.0        36.0      36.0/i             63.6                    41.1
FEMALE               10.0        13.0      17.0/j;            41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I Of SECONDARY)  8.0           1.0       0.7/f             1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TZACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           46.1        41.5       51.6/c            37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        20.9         *-              20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATSE (PERCENT)      28.0         33.4      36.0              52.1                     73.1
CONSUMPTION
PAsIENU1T CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.6         1.1        1.3/c             1.5                      9.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.9        21.5      33.6               35.4                   116.5
TV RZCEIVEBS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.0         0.0        1.0               3.2                     37.6
NEW6PAPER ("DAILY OENZRAL
INTERSSTS) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 10.6        16.0       19.8              16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1          4.1       3.7               3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
-'!'I=OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)  165951.1   219194.2  264204.4
PEMALE (PERCENT)                  30.7        32.5       31.8              29.5                     33.6
AORICULTURE (PERCENT)             74.0        74.0       69.3              70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0        11.0       13.2              15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.8        40.0       39.2              40.0                     36.5
MALE                                57.0         32.4      51.8              31.6                     50.5
FEMALE                              27.3        26.9       25.9              23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1          1.1       1.1               1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7        26.3/j   22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7        4S.9    49.4/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1         6.77j    7.0/
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.27j    16.2/.                       
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    132.0               133.8                    194.7
RURAL                               ..          ..    114.0               111.1                    155.1
ESTLMAED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                    176.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                               ..          ..       50.7              51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data snd is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, dat for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Eitat, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  La 1976;  /f 1975; /I  1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
DNPINITIMN OF SOCIAL MIICATORS
Ntam iAitiogh thm dAta sos dYa  from  -o-e  generlly judg.d aim age autharitatire ad relable, It abold ala ha  -td that tiny  -p  ma ha Iota-
at aoly corahil. henl-  of tie 1tok of stdardlod doftitloo   ad t-tPt. usad by diffaro-  cotiooo                                 iitotiog th  data.  Th. data  r.a.
thaitat. usufu  to datrih l     rdb r  of     giad.tdtttt  trooda. ood  ouatra tetIo aJor dii f.-oos  haea   ootis
Tbsefaro   grooPa.r  (iiai ta     oootry grop ofi the asijlso  co-totr  ad  12) a c-otry stoop with soaithtgsr   -.Srag   tinm  tha ah. toste  arW-
ofthe     it ooot   (..ep tfor    Nigh Coco    Oi   oport-rs  growp ohar  "Niddls Cocoa North Adrtoa ad Niddia Neat" it  h... hoto-  of atraga
tot-oitoral  ffloItota.t i  rfar-c  growp data tn ovorog. ar  PoPolatiot -sihted aihitbto  N-ato.fo  sah iLdicator ad .h    omiy Wo
sejority oftincott. toL  A group h.. dato for that todItoto. itolo tho co -rag  of coatr... aso    the  dledcatra d.pteda a: ohs ailahgiity of dat
aod is oat aIfors.  ootiot  -ta ha aertan.d  L.torlottLogsnrga fa   lodloator to Aoothar.  Tha- overage  or. si   oaf o   o  oar    tin eal  of
ate irdiator at a l. ti-ta. tin co-try aed rafsr..... group..
ARIA (thoosad so.k.)17 ..                                                                           Fritc  orNaiaNd-ttI.onto, ted total - FopoItlota(ttl
Toal-T otla.tc   rtco.1ia  tdea  a   ot- oo.;i7Mat.                                                 oht  so  rottil divided hy Ohair roopativ  o,ar of hooyitoi heAt
jWric-itu-l -  .ts-tla     of agiuiua  art, cad taw  .rtrtly or P.rsttly                          anatlahit In p.tiio  ad private gsatiadapctltad h.apittiads
for crop., poatorot. arkat ad kitchar sardom  or to It. foIm; 199data                           halitatio  c-as            optl    aatbltohmeta pat                tly gBuff.
by Aloiaat ot- phy.lciao.  Natahlitoeot  providlog p,mlipaly ooto-
iN  ~FiCPITA (U51) - GNP Par capita aotAs  t c..rraot  orkat P...tas. ca-dticraaottldd. aalPapaa.h vr.                                                             td.ait
ouasby aem   oonaaio   Athod Ba WorLd teak Attn  (i970-60 ha.1ol; 1960.                       ard   di.l..i cotoro at ParsutlY atf fed hy a phyolcisd (hot by A
iO.a 190dto.                                                                             adttal AAusLotat, arm. stafo. at.)  ilob off.r I.-pa.tista
donor ad provdea l.ited rag. of adical ftoilitisa.  yv.. ato
INUNGY CSNUIWTION PIn CAPITA - Aduul  -otsWtiao  of coamca    og    ca                               tica1 PorMoat  orba  hospital. tooled. WM. pri.ittp.i/gam-1t ha tpoaia
ad Igato.kpotosm    coa   e   dhdr-folt  e    soasioic a_d rua  h.apittl.. i-ci or rare  hoaploala ad msdLca   d   tro
tctty)ito" htiogrsA of coi oqonimIt par t.plta; 1960. 1970. ard i979                              cAtor.  Bpeotltoed hoopttals era toildad ItlI  todrtoal
data.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ad,"atico rat No-ital Dad - Total otaber of eds  iaaoo  to o  dta sr
P r1oe asitato dIvide  by tin totar of Mad..
POPULATIONANDa VITAL. STATISTICS
T.t.1 otu tt1  I    Nl Md-Ta.r.io _ud.) - As of July t; 1960. 1970, and 1960                  HOSOlING
data.                                                                                         Avarago ioao    osodCrm    a ioh.,                  dl -  totl. ot,tdrr
OraoFouao   (rrsto   aal - Rtio of urhao to tota  popuittloo;                                     A ho..hi  cootst  of a  roPof iodttdoia wo LaIr Litg   ortr
dtffr.o  dafoitoos  f uto  ea.   y afococouarahlit  of  ataeadthei  ala  mob.I.  A hoArd-r or lodgar   y or -y oth   olddt
amo   aora;1960. 1900,..od iOdat.                                                      the     . haolcd for sttistical poP. os...
PoruIata   oti    iasmot.  uo  o-oro.  a  ao     ttl.ai . ad  -ot-  vrga1s
logti .spctoac  at. hird  dnrato    thcoo11a1. uit   aoacaao, -lac                                            tictt y Coar 11at o   d ..loss  -ota.   ob.a    oa
Coral. Iod faol  itf L    oat_ry  anitlatogt 77.5 yeare.  Th' part-                          Coo-ert..aai d-ttiago stth oactrkitty to ttntng quar.tar  as "aroa-p
-tat. far f-rtitity ran, alto har  rtha. is-ata  ssosti   decltna 1                          of totot. onto, tad r-ra  de..lttgaro-pttvely.
fertility  aCordtngtotooolna  and ya_  fmly II.oaapefu.,                     ce
techfooatryI tah toa..ge   oato  thia.aoiaac-btticas  of artlity                         EDUCATION
td fetility tread. for prjotoj.tt Lpcruopas.                                              Adjated tBro.iment tatics
Stationry ooooI.iot     -J toataicor   population  ltre. is -c Nrmh aLoct                       Fraysho.-ttl   l  and fsm1i  - Cto.. Ltotl. ala  ted feo1i
the urh rots is aqu1 to the death tat., aed aIso  h:.,,: structure j-                           Laaieto   i  aea  thapir   len   ae poro"tage   of   sepettins
saia  cooeao   This is achievd .oIyaft.r 6isoIftiy ra.                lo   opris-ny school-age  popatatiane                           ; oom Ly  aldro  thildret aged h-il
thero    -cea  leve  of -oit oa  raprodctioo rte.t ot   atgoroooytahtajst.frdfoa   tgh   of pr1-ry  sdrtatim; for
ofmorpas   tefestY.  Th. statioary popcta1o   e                             titee: was          r            thar _as.t o Irs  edutatioc sarolimat ap  o_ca   100 parra
esalatd  at te bast  of rh  prolatad  caatrataof ohs popolatica                       s.tat  som     pile  ra hula or shon  the  4ffatot1 shed  ANs.
i,tohs yea  200.adtert   fdecImofa                           tltyrt   orpae                  Socdrchool -otl,ai  Andfale - Coapoted at thw                           odr
sat lent.                                                                              sductoioarrtilqutraeat -PI  ' N  i_et too  year ,of approvd priary  iostra..tiam;
Tea atotor  aceatc                taraid - iThe yc nec souiotay PoPu1Laioo                        providas gerl.nctitl  ortsc tr tritta   tao-time for popile
aim  vill to roa ..ed.                                                                          usualtY of 12 to 17 y.s.s of aE;          . orapood ... courses ore gsmoiiy
Par en. is. - Iid-psar~I. pp Iato   Per sqar  kils-tar (100 Mtoctare) of                     VO..otioaut emoll-at (prt-   of  -codaryl - focatimot ta-itutioo
total am; 1960. 1970 and 1979 data.                                                           iocluda tchoirt1, tadoatol1l  or othr programs W,hc  operts todepad-
Per so. ks. atrittturo  toed - C-epetad as aton  foragiclurl  ed                                a-tyora  drpsrt-t  of a-raday tosoltutt I
ol;16.1970 ad1979 data.                                                              PPril-teache  rtio - primay, sad  -rodary - Total  -ad-at  strolled it
Porolaioo At itrcturo(rorcatl -Childre  (0-14 y-arel   orhiogag   (15-                  .rmr   n          .ecodar  IevaIa divided by attsr   of teachers to thn
64 year). an  rttrsid I(5pasad ove) to p-ootosgea of mId-Year pop.-                             ccrrePodiog i..rtI..
Latioa;166   971.ed 1990 data.                                                                Mo~lt literacy rtet  (p-arc. t) - Litera.te adulta  (sil.te arod tad mite)
Paroltim Ooath  ets ltrosal - otal.  - AIa-1 grcht at.te of tot1 mid-                   aspart,ent.,  of total adolt popolaoioa aged t5 yaoot  aSd 0I00
PPoputpoicarom=ot Race(rercoat~) -crtav-A,1oco  growth ratae of -rta  root-                   CONSC2WTION
tattoo   for       11954.ci-7. and 1970-00.'                                                  Pa..eoser Cars (car thousan.d ro-1-itoal - P..ae.a.r Iat cI         i     ao
Crue    "LtSt. (ran thotauvd)   Acotat IVe birtho pro thot....d of oid-y-a                    core actiag Iree thee tight p-rsovo;  -acldos atultaco, h-ues  sod
pcpl-toa  t9O    970, ted 190data.                                                            sititeyvwticte
Crud Death att  (rr  tosod)' --uotdat   a   hoado   l-ertdoRtiat(a  eead porutaticol - All typss at r-c-a-r-  for -sdto
pcputa1iio; 1960. 1970. an  1980 data.                                                          tr-d,cast   to gesralpboil  per tiousood of populatioo;toidt-
iros Serouctc    ateAcet.ate n-b-a of d-gtattero        islelt tea  tatcoe    eevr   ocotia   n   oysaoo otteiatof rdio
her oosal  aprooctiv  perod If se     erecr   rset  g-sei1fic fa-                        set  _a. irffcc  dat  for rec"t pe-r  My act bsoparshle  elat
tilityrstae;osualtp  f ve-paur sasreges so iva iv 1960. tOlO. sd 1990.          a so cocotrio  stot1shad  tlcoost.g
Lstt Ply aaiaaL- Acrertv . A.oo (tostad)- coAl ...sIh- r of acce- or                            TOtatvao(rr hoso  roulttol-  TV rwre in.rs for brosdcaat to
of hith_roat"ileielAlrasie  o   sla    atypaoo  Program                                         georl  ulicprtosn  poatto   saclodes   Itcra    T  frootnar
Fail latit  - Oars (peco-  of arcied Pa ...-Fe .rt.ge of arrid                             tacut Aisd toyer  ots-   raglora to f TO Bsts wa .t rfft
Eiao of rhlld-b-arcg  a   (-15-   y-aa(ot  us            tt hri-oct-     devicsto               osae   iroato(e   thousand rarelatiosr  - Shom  the Ave.S.to d-
.1 rid .e  tos           v ate rop.                                                        -oeio    f"diyg             1ca  toter-toatePapa". dsftod asapuldicu1
roblicattoo devoted priartly to rscodigt aoaro  am. t isL oadsa
FlOp AtD NUTRITION                                                                                  to h d "daly" if it  p.ar   at.. lta  Poo  "tme  a1 weak
Lodro of FoodPr-doctio Per Capita (99-71-1101  - Indao of per capita -one                       Cla-  Aov..a Att-d-"r Ot Caoita rPr Tea-See   00. tt oh ter of
poctoofalfond   oditieie.  Pro1doctivo  eatLodas sead ted ftad tAd                    tichots sOld doriog ohs year1. t1cdiag ad.lastoos to driv-la ritas
is toalada  pear haste.  Co-indties cove  priary goods (e.g. euacas                             ad mebiacte
tasteS of _ear .t) ichart.dilblaa.dc...taiooc-iao- (e.g. toffee aad
to -ss  ocudd).  i4ggcsatr productico of tct.        vor  is baead cv                    L,ABOR FORI
vai pt vra   prdurppsmiht.  t9h-5, 19 70.ad1990 daca.                               Tota Lb-o Focca (thausa.ads) - Eco.odcl11ty activ  parsoo, iocludiag
For tseita aurrir of calorits  arceny of roiamt)- Cutpo                                tt-dfomamd  oc..ad ..veuployad hot  -1cboiag   . tousiva,sootrsc
sasragy eqoivalet of a        t fod sopplios  -vaialbl  to co...tty par capilta                 covertog popu1atto  of all ages.  Deftotistovruscoteas
Par day.  Availabla  opte   _oprist domesic prodocvioo. toporte loss                            von     ...ablt; 1960. 1970 and 1900 data.
aeporta  and oavass  v stuc .at ecreirs eo1ldr avi-  food. sseds,                      Fe-lt (p-e...et) - PeaIlebt-o force as par-toag  oftoa  lhrfPopa.
qutattita  sed I  foodproctairg,Add toaset to d(st rihotio.   Raqulte-                kA,ficoltura(perroalt  - LbrfPocaIa(roa. for-try, h LItN td
eeateotrrwa1timetsd  by 060 bt..ed -v ptysclcglsl voade for coral -ti-                            Iihgaapratgofoal1 Iaorfot; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
vitahelth toeiderits  -eiroaotllte-peraturtl,.hdy miAot:ta, ag                                 Iodc-trp (p-r... I       b-LtrOcr  veaa.0c-aou-ioo, a-factcritg
sod eadistrbtiuolo   of popolatiot, so   looo   0prevfrest   tedeattty    tr d Assa   ateaa  fttlihrforna
hoaeot  lve; L19145. 1970 avd 1977 data.                                                    1960, 1970 sod 1991 Isia
Fa loits durply o            (roelbai  Par day) - Pro teto  -cot-  of Per capita              aecpto Rt  rrri  -  totl. web, sod flet   - Fartloipoaia  op
act sopYo  fodpar day.  Net  coptly of food is dafiod as  bhov.Ra.-                            -ctitpraesar  cptedasOt,ar.adfmlisoPrca
qoiremoa. 'faraldl coootria establisthd hy lIDA provide  0,I !c                                  P.... pretuga  of totl,al   sod famla popaltica of .ltS. q          -reprtaolv y;
allo=ocs  of 60 aram  of tota  proten pee day and 20 gram  of  vi_L sod                         tOti, 19170. aed1'9601 dat.  Th..a are hoar.d ov ti,0e  p-ritolpetiov  rtes
pulse proteto. of  httch tI gram  Ihccd ha talal protato.  Thrstoto-d-                          caftactiva ate-err .tcoaof the popolatica. sod lbag tIn  tred A
ords Ara lonr that those of 75 gra   of total protei  and 13ga S           cL                   Pr   tosndtre are Pros oaniol sourca..
saial prool  usoevrg - for the oct1d, pr.opoed ty PM  LIv theThird                            cfrotoalDt SodeocY RaIol - Ratio of rcpol-ibo  ooder 15 sad iS tod avr
World Fond Sor-y  19t145,1970 aa   97dt,to  h   oa  lbrPr
Far "Pit, proteta sooTo fro         ia  sod ptis  - Pro toin atpply of food de-
rtoad fro  totals   d pul.e.tograoprdy 961-iS, 1970 aed 1977 data.                    iacE~ cISTRiaBUTIa
ChildV(oet4   eth Rate (pwo thcoavd>  - AIouui deahs Per thc.....d to                           Parc-ca- of Private lacom  (both Lv cash aed kind) - Raceivd hy toheat
Aaasrourl4 yers     othildretvI.thiea0 A ru. t.p,orme-cdavlctg- oo piar o tev.ntichetlo20rat,-poreev  20 pecte-.  ad Poorte  40 Perao
tries dots derivad from  tile  tohlas; 1960. 1970 an  1980 dots.               c                of houshol..
HRaiTH                                                                                          POVERTY TARIPT GtOUPa
Lift,B Ratty.at Lpo7th Icral- '-Aversgr ottr of peupe of liii i-reeetr                       _The -foil riog astmte   r  cary  ppree late    aot  of povery irval,
at 1pt;t90  190sd 1980 daa.sd should hr int-prt-d mitt coo..id-bela  atto
tofsot Seta1inyRts (pe I thoused) -           -1rou  deah   of ifaae coder cot Yea              ftiated AbI...tt  PoveryCca-et (1   e  oie  - urbo and totl 
of a~  pap  hoooad itr  hirta; 160.190sd190 dta                                       Oteolont povery tacm   level I. tha  ivoe         Ieo     htWelha.  Atoinat
Across toSafs Wiata  Cper-st of pooPtattoL-  -              t110, rho  and coral - aoe-           volriv..lc lyp  doquats diet pica teta 1a too- fond    quraai   isot
tar of poaple  (tonat, -rba, tad coral  tinth reaaooble  cest.             a.u ffrd.bta
rater .opy(ciundas trastod surface atere or uttr.stsdttocaasood                               Otad     teannePoe-r oc               evL (09 a   capt)-obo v   cs 
raeI    ch so that from proostld horeholes. epriaga. and            or  intl.) asters  re.tantr  povrt tocom  leveli. ot-third of  vnecsg                               .Prcets
pe1rcatuateA of thei  reaP.Cttre popolanioos  . In  touhoraotlcParso ...IvLowe of th. c-ctry.  Ortso lsv-l ta darivd  from  the ror1
fotaaitor  tsdposticcatad  toos  etta  200 meter rhorc. a tot, sp  be1 rvlsith IdjItmea  for higher coot of liciea  In  _ria  oross
cosdrd  stig Iott   aoot b                 crsofta  tos .                rrt-  ora.e          tatae    otaIc  RBi1n Aboolcte P-nero Ovom   aniCrrav  -  .rbsa
crasoabla socasee..Id iwply   tnotha th-s fror mter.-  of tho household                         odral-rrttfpritoa(roanrtrai  oar  "iolt
do00hans to sprd a disproportiooana Papa of thr day  ta fetchino the                        Poor ...
Access to fertsA Otsposa1         ...roa    of ropeltloti - totail, b-,o ndrra 
aNsker of peorto (ntat.ot, oartri                 vdty  -rocrts dtspas,      s
p     ccC.g.o  their repective popolociova   Oncroou1 dioP-1u my itloldo
the colotoaad disposa.  wtt cc rt  ooit tralet, If th-s a                    'ot
an   sv-ecar byratr-b-rn  syavm   or the oat of pit pcivtaa and sa-
Lar  ostalatico..
Ponolstloo car Phyatior.  - Ppoittlot dietlad:d byote of pacie i   phyai-                                                             Efooto  and tocis1 Data Dlniolvo
cimsqtslfiodfrosa mdicalstl        a  ueivttt= lent                                                                     Occa..mic Mo1ysia sod FP-j-cls  ear-a
FP. ist..o per 0rtoa' Fersor -Povoindividad'by tooter ofpottc                                                                                        a  1962
mal  ad feaIt gradatto-.rs.es, usistt  toes  practiical ats    ad
gosoaai  ate



Palo 4 of 5
zcotaao DEVLOMENMT DATA
3/
GNI PER CAPITA IN 1980 U8t24D
GROSS NA0TIOAL  RODUCi IN 1980/81                                                              ANNUAL RATE Of GROWTH %. constant price.)
19 Disk,       %                1933/56-1939/60  1960161-1964/65   196i516-169/702        1970171-1974/73   197 5/76-197 9/8
GNP *t Market Prices                  159.37      100.0                     3.7                3.6                3.6                 2.9                4.1
Gro  Domestic Investment               38. 46      24.1
Gross National Saving                  35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance                -3.16       -2.0
OUTSU. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Ve ~Added (At factor coet)            Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
ul Bln          %                IL        1                 USS..          of National Averese
Agriculture                            39.8            39.6              180.6      70.7                220               56
Industry                               25.2            t5.1               32.2      12.6                783              199
Services                               35.5             53                42.6      16.7                833              211
Totel/Average                                                            MT0 I   2!      T=             3Y07              I
GOVEIRIOUNT FINANCE
Generel Govxrnment         /                                       Cantral Oovxrnent
Rm. Bln          %ofGPp                                             Rm  %ln           IL   GDa1,1t
1980/81       1      976/77198/11980/81    1sso/siiso1  1976/77-1980/8f
Current Receipts                    238.19      19.0         19,1                                       125,41        10.0           10,6
Current Expenditures                238.93      19.0         18.0                                       133,29        10,6           10.6
Current Surplue/Deticit              *0.74      -0.1          1.1                                       - 7,88      - 0,6            N.S.
Capital Expenditures  J/            107.35       8S.          7.6                                        79.99        6.4             5.4
External As istence (net) j/         12.86       1.0          1.0
MONEY.CRCDIT AND PRICES             1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/SO           1980/81    Fh1    uU.J!98    Februerv 1982
(Re Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money end Quasi Money                109.8       194.6       223.2       273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9       553.1         536.13            615.53
Benk Credit to Government (not)    54.6           95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0       258 1         238.22           292.18
Bsnk Credit to Co mrciel Sector   64.6           126.5       153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3       363 2         349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Nimbers)                                                     Avril-Fb 1980/81  Aoril-Pel  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  27.3           28.0        30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 -100)                    100.0       174.9       173.0        176.6       185.8      185.8       217.6        257.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7        25.2        -1.1         2.1         5.2         -          17.1         18.1          18.4                      9.6
Bnk Credit to Goverment (net)    13.0              9.2         2.7        21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8        28.4           28.6 j/                  22:7 h/
Benk Credit to ComeerciAl Sector   19.4           18.2        21.5        20.4        14,6        19.5        20.8        18.6           16.6 5/                 NO.9 h/
g/  The per capit CGUP estimte is at *mrket prices, clculated by the converston technique used in the World Bank Atlas   81.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the averge exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quiek Estimutes, Central Stetistical Organization.
i/  Computed from trend line of GNF at factor cost series, including one observation before first yer and one observation
after last year of listed period.
A/  World Bank estimtes; not necessarily consietent with official figures.
A/  Transfers between Contre and States have been netted out.
I/  All loans and advances to third parties have-been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from end-February. 1980 to end-February 1981.
I/   Percentage change from end-February, 1981 to end-February 1982.
/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Yeer Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



0
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82            MERCHANDISE WORTS (AVESAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                      USS Mln        7.
Exports of Goods                  6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700          Engineering Goods              908        12
Imports of Goods                 -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000             Tea                            506          7
Trade Balance                    -1,541      .3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300            Gems                           403          5
NFS (net)                            717      1,100         722         915          Clothlng                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                  - 824      -2,204    - 6.612    - 6.385               Products                    457          6
Jute Manufactures             303          4
Interest Income (net) k /             14         196        370         212          Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Trnfera   1 /                 1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840          Cotton Textiles                316         4
Sugar                         102          1
Balance on Current Account           375      - 431      -3.163     -4,333           Others                      3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                         Total                       7.448        100
Disbursements                  1,695       1,738      2,337       2,724  g/       EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amartization                   - 702       - 608      - 707       - 659                                                 USS billion
Transactions with IMF             - 158          -        1,035         690          Outstanding and Disbursed                  17.2
All Other Items                      265      - 475         147       - 797          Undisbursed                                 7.5
Outstanding, including                    24.7
Increase in Reserves ()          -1,475       - 224         351      2,375               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (and year) j/      7,357       7,579       7,228      4,853
Net Reserves   (end year)'s/    7,357         7,579      6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 j_/ n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Matarials                                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)              2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                               USS million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                               24          26         33        n.e
outstanding and Disbursed        984          5646
Undisbursed                      880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                 1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating RAte
Spot Rate end-December 1980               US$IO0 - Re 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
J/ Estimated.
/  Figures given cover  ill investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and mjor receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
-   included within official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of Im  credit.
'Et Amortixation and interest paymnts on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
   Includes $ 234 million of comercial borrowings.
Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 23
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank             IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
46 Loans/                                               1,568.0              -
75 Credits fully disbursed                                  -           4,352.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                                              12.0           0.79
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                                        30.0          13.36
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                                    83.0          21.60
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                                        27.7           9.78
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                                   16.4           1.24
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -               40.0          10.98
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -              105.0           5.95
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -              150.0          27.19
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -                4.0           1.19
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -               18.0           8.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0              -            57.10
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0              -             4.34
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0              -            19.47
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0              -             7.07
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0              -             6.31
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -               30.0          17.07
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -               20.0           4.48
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -              150.0          14.13
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -               12.0          11.80
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0                            5.86
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -               10.0           2.71
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                              23.0          11.81



ANNEX II
Page 2 o-f 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -               8.0           4.86
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -              70.0          14.19
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -              13.0           2.47
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -              58.0            7.30
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5             -             4.00
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -             107.0          71.45
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -              87.0          10.06
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -                8.0           6.67
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0             -             7.17
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0             -            22.25
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6          64.06
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                                  200.0          71.61
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -              14.0          11.74
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                     -              85.0          48.21
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               -              17.5          11.20
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -              16.0          12.69
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0             -            37.00
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                         -             150.0         103.36
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -             196.0         174.69
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                     -             111.0          13.07
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -              190.0          97.94
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -              38.0          13.19
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research         -              27.0          22.28
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                 25.0          12.16
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                   -              30.0          10.16
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -             200.0         101.84
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -             129.0          80.38
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -              48.0          24.15
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -             175.0          39.07
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -              23.0          12.79
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -             210.0         123.37
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0          22.55
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -              20.0          18.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -              46.0          42.20
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -              32.0          27.07
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -              18.0          10.59
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -             175.0         150.89



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -              22.0          19.90
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -             300.0         239.39
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -              10.0           9.58
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -              56.0          45.91
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -              54.0          50.16
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -              80.0           69.47
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0             -            20.35
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0             -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -             225.0         194.24
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0              -            26.67
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0             -            82.69
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -              35.0          24.25
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -              83.0          63.01
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0          29.53
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -             140.0         117.07
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0         193.52
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -              54.0          46.49
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0         314.42
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -              23.0          19.60
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0          23.28
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -              37.0          31.98
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -             125.0         101.29
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                400.0         400.00
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         206.02
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0          26.94
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0             -           141.49
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0             -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                -             160.0          66.36
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -                6.0           6.00
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0                         200.00
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III*           304.5                         304.50
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3                          20.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 23
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      'Kallada Irrigation                                   60.0          60.00
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply+*                                72.0          72.00
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry*                            33.0          33.00
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh II                             31.0          31.00
Irrigation*
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation+*                            127.0         127.00
Total                                     4,095.3        10,955.6
of which has been repaid                1,173.0           106.7
Total now outstanding                     2,922.3        10,848.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        2,922.3         10,848.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,308.1         3,982.7
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.07234) in effect on September 30, 1982.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
-* Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page ~5 of 23
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0        -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.9         -       15.9
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1         -        8.1
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         207.5       12.1    219.6
Less:   Sold                          53.0        2.6      55.6
Repaid                        26.4         -      26.4
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3      7.5
Now Held                     121.9        8.2    130.1
Undisbursed                  103.0        0.5    103.5



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 23
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1982 total US$287 million, representing an
increase of about 76% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline as of September 30, 1982, is US$5,291 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 23
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan funds were fully committed
in December 1981, but close supervision has been necessary to ensure timely
implementation of sub-projects and full disbursement of the loan by the
closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and
public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project also assists IDBI
in carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector. Progress
is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No, 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
As of June 1982, 31 of the 37 fertilizer sub-projects being funded
by Credit 598 have been completed and are in operation.  IDA has agreed to a
six-month extension of the closing date to December 31, 1982, by which date
the remaining six sub-projects will be completed and the credit fully
disbursed. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily. Site preparation is
well advanced. All major design and critical procurement work is essentially
complete, and detailed engineering is now being carried out. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory.  The conversion component
is making very good progress. Preparation work and investment approvals for
the energy efficiency and pollution control components are expected to be
completed on schedule. Attention is now being turned to the construction
programs under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 23
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. All platforms and subsea pipelines
have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached its targetted
production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is presently producing
250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053 December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 23
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. Construction works for the
Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations are on or ahead of schedule, although some
slippage has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam
project. The first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on
schedule in February 1982, and the second unit in October 1982. The first
unit at the Korba station is scheduled to be commissioned in January 1983.
In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant equipment, price
increases for materials, and increases in customs duties have resulted in an
increase in the total cost of the project. The Government of India is
raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the additional cost.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Under Credit 911, project implementation is progressing approximately
on schedule without major problems. Procurement of materials and equipment
is well advanced. Disbursements of the credit proceeds are ahead of
appraisal projections. Under Loan 2165, initial project progress is
satisfactory. Procurement is approximately on schedule, with the State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) now proceeding with bid invitations. REC is
reorganizing its capability to monitor financial performance of the
individual SEBs, which is likely to have a beneficial effect on this project
as well as on Credit 911.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily. They are
overcoming initial delays caused by procurement problems and a five-month
labor strike against one of the indigenous suppliers. All funds from
Loan 1313 have been committed and procurement action under Loan 1592 is well
advanced. Disbursements are expected to accelerate as work progresses. The



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 23
Posts and Telegraphs Department remains a financially sound and
efficiently-managed organization. Credit 1112 provides for the continued
expansion of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural
areas, the establishment of three new telecommunication equipment factories
and the modernization and upgrading of three existing ones. Bid evaluation
is progressing satisfactorily and it is expected that the project and its
individual sub-projects will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability. Physical execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. The wheel and axle plant is expected
to be operational by December 1982, and Indian Railways' financial and
traffic performance continues to improve.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered. Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling    about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been good progress in meeting the physical investments
under Credit 1033. Delivery of more than 600 buses and trams required for
the project should be completed by March 1983. However, management
performance of the project authorities must be improved if they are to
achieve the operational and financial performance targets agreed to. IDA is
engaged in detailed discussions with the Government of West Bengal of
measures required to alleviate existing and possible future problems.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 23
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 11, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082  Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Madras Urban Development I, Credit 687, is fully disbursed and
scheduled to close on December 31, 1982. The project was implemented
satisfactorily and met its basic objectives, introducing low-cost design
standards to provide slum improvements to over 25,000 households, sites and
services development on 14,000 plots, and improved water supplies;
introducing improved urban management systems; and augmenting the city's bus
fleet and the operational management capabilities of the bus company. The
second project, Credit 1082, is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception
of the sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing
delays in land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively
pursuing the resolution of these court cases so that land acquisition can be
completed by October 1982 and the sites and services works finished by the
project closing date. Under both credits, the financial performance of the
Pallavan Transport Corporation (PTC), the project implementing agency, is
unsatisfactory. It is not generating funds sufficient to meet its financial
targets. An action plan to cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and
raise revenues has recently been formulated and, subject to the agreement of
GOTN, will enable PTC to achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain
them thereafter.
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983.  Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1185, which became effective in April 1982, is aimed at
providing shelter and urban services in Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar
Pradesh. Initial progress has been mixed. The project authority is hampered
by lack of adequate staff with proper management expertise, and land
acquisition disputes are causing delays in civil works. However, there has
been good progress in the slum-upgrading component, where improvements
benefitting about 3,700 households are nearing completion, and the
institution-strengthening aspects of the project are proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 23
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1Y92
Physical works under the project are approximately 90% complete.
However, financial performance of the implementing agencies has been
generally poor, and it is likely that many of them may not be able to meet
the financial performance targets agreed with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Under Credit 842, construction is in progress on the Panjrapur
Treatment Plant, on several reservoirs, and on major water mains; and
procurement contracts are well advanced for the remaining project works.
Revised cost estimates have been prepared because of the delay in the start
of construction. The financial performance of the project authority has been
good.
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory, and the overall
financial performance of the project authorities has improved considerably.
Recent progress under Credit 899 is encouraging. Land acquisition
and construction are proceeding according to the revised implementation
schedule. Following a recent tariff revision, the project entities'
financial performance should improve in FY83.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes are
nearly finalized. The financial performance of the Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage Board has been good. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the
construction of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the
city of Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from
the Rajasthan Canal instead. A consultant has been hired to analyze the
engineering and cost alternatives which would be fully assessed when the
alternative proposals are received in about one year's time.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 23
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: AgSt 10, 1978; -Clo-sing&
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 23
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186  Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
and       credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date:  September 21, 1982;
Cr. No. 1269  Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288  Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: Expected November
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Delays in construction caused by initial shortages of cement caused
the Maharashtra I project to fall considerably behind schedule. For the
future, cement will be allotted to the project on a priority basis. In both
Maharashtra projects, increased attention is needed to improve the quality of
construction work in accordance with agreed and appropriate technical
standards, and to correcting the deficiencies which are now present in the
systems.
The Karnataka project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.,
The Gujarat Medium project is substantially behind schedule, but
performance is expected to improve with the recent resolution of technical
design problems. A detailed review of the project in July established a
revised implementation schedule for the duration of the project.  Lack of
proper management and planning in the Gujarat II project have contributed
to serious delays, which may contribute to considerable cost overruns. Due
to unresolved political problems, the Heran component (16% of project costs)
has been deleted. In March 1982, the Government of Gujarat sanctioned nearly
300 new staff positions in the Irrigation Department to be assigned
exclusively to the implementation of World Bank projects. This is expected
to help improve progress in both Gujarat projects, although the project
authorities and State Government officials will need to devote considerable
time and effort if the problems are to be overcome and momentum
re-established.
Progress in canal and watercourse lining is behind schedule in the
Punjab project due to shortages of cement and inadequate provision of
budgetary resources. The Government of Punjab has recently completed a



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 23
review of the project and a revised implementation plan for the duration of
the project is to be presented to IDA in November 1982.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project got off to a slow start
due to delays in selecting the sub-projects to be included. Eleven
sub-projects have now been appraised, and tendering is underway. The pace of
implementation, and the rate of disbursements, are therefore expected to
accelerate.  Initial progress under the Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation
Project was delayed by serious start-up problems--among them, considerable
staffing vacancies in the project entity, use of inefficient and cumbersome
procurement procedures, delays in the appointment of consultants, and
deficiencies in technical designs of the irrigation works. The Government
of Madhya Pradesh is keely aware of these problems and is taking steps to
correct them. Project progress is expected to improve soon.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance units to
be set up in the Irrigation Department are not yet established. The
Government of Uttar Pradesh has been urged to fulfill this requirement
expeditiously. Project completion may be delayed by six months due to
initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 712   Madha. Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
S$1 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 23
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
o June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 19/9; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of May 5, 1982; Effective Date:  July 27,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed
extension system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging,
both in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased
crop yields.
In Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects.
In Assam after some delays field work continues to improve, the
field research stations are focussing their activities on local requirements,
and the agricultural university is providing good support to extension
training and research.
In West Bengal, a change in government brought a two-year hiatus in
project implementation, but the new State Government has reaffirmed its



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 23
support, and project activities have resumed. There has been considerable
progress in all project components. However, completion of the project in
accordance with its original objectives has required an extension of the
closing date.
Following the decision by the Government of Bihar (GOB) in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts there has
been considerable improvement. The project is being extended to a further
11 districts, bringing the total under implementation to 16 out of a possible
31. GOB has made provision for adequate budgetary resources for 1982-83, and
all extension and research staff required have been appointed, except among
village extension workers where some vacancies persist. GOB plans to
consolidate the extension system in the current 16 districts before extending
it to the entire State.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been
established and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension
recommendations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies.
In Kerala, project implementation has begun in three of eleven
districts and is operating satisfactorily. Further progress on the project
will require an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V
system to the remaining eight districts.
In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation is going
extremely well. Field activities by extension staff are generally well
organized and conducted. Recommendations are widely accepted by farmers.
Initial implementation of the Madhya Pradesh II project has been
slow due to the Government's delay in sanctioning necessary budget resources,
and transferring of Department of Agriculture staff to work in the extension
service. Field activities are being carried out in only two of the four
Year I districts, and have not yet begun in the seven Year II districts.
Considerable orientation in the objectives and procedures of the reformed
extension service is required by staff at all levels.
Early steps are being taken in the Andhra Pradesh project for the
commencement of training, monitoring and evaluation, and civil works
activities, and the procurement of equipment and vehicles. Field work has
yet to begin, pending the issuance of required governmental orders for the
transfer of staff to the reformed extension service.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continue satisfactorily. Implementation of the
small-holder component, the project's largest, is gaining momentum. The
banking program is functioning well, with the volume of loans sanctioned up
35% over the previous year. The three crumb rubber factories included in the
project are in operation and the cashewnut plantations are 85% complete.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 23
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project requires improvement in several areas. Civil works and
procurement are both somewhat behind schedule, the Project Unit needs
additional staff and there are technical deficiencies in the experimental
agricultural activities being carried out under the project. However, the
pace of sub-project approval during 1981-82 has been satisfactory and
implementation of.the sub-projects in the States of Gujarat and Andhra
Pradesh is good.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment
opportunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project
was initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has accelerated recently and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1983
Construction of storage capacity of 1.5 million tons has been
completed, with another 300,000 tons in progress.  GOI's proposals to delete
the bulk storage component and provide additional bag storage capacity have
been accepted by IDA. A one-year extension of the closing date has been
granted with the possibility of a further extension on the basis of progress
achieved during this fiscal year.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 23
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Implementation of Credit 871 has
slowed down over the last six months due to shortages in cement supplies and
inadequate project coordination at the State level. Implementation of
Credit 1146 was initially slow due to poor preparation in most States in the
pre-project year. However, since December 1981 the project has gained some
momentum with about 1300 godowns and 40 cold storage units now sanctioned for
construction. Under both projects, the shortage of cement presents a serious
bottleneck; and construction costs have risen considerably, which may
necessitate a reduction in the total number of storage units to be
constructed. NCDC and the State agencies concerned have resolved to do what
is required to speed up implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and'feed plants is proceeding well.
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near
completion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement
improvements in their management support of the dairy producers' unions as
required under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Credit 522 project has proceeded well and is excellently managed.
The processing facilities have been completed and are operational. However,



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 23
the project authorities postponed formation of the DCSs until the processing
facilities and marketing studies were completed. Extension work is now
underway (550 DCSs are already established), but the credit closing date has
been extended by nine months to allow for creation of the total 1200 DCSs
planned, together with their complementary extension and training services.
Under Credit 824, the Operation Flood II Agreements, which allow for
the establishment of federations of DCSs, have now been signed by most of the
participating States. The major obstacle to the project at the moment is the
delay in providing loans to States due to their reluctance to issue the
guarantees required by the IDC for commitment of funds.  This is currently
under review by the project authorities.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were, designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. Plans for the 24 seed development farms are complete and
production has commenced. Procurement is satisfactory, with six of ten ICB
tenders awarded and two more in process. Most of the seed processing plants
have been sanctioned for construction, and hence disbursements are expected
to improve with the inception of civil works. It is expected that all works
under both projects will be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation
improvement programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and
Orissa. The planting and improvement programs have made very good progress
and the area covered is ahead of appraisal estimates. There is every
expectation that the project will fulfill its objective of significantly
increasing cashew production and improving the incomes of the farmers. In
Orissa there is already evidence of a significant improvement in the farmers'
welfare as a result of participation in the project.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve.  The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing.  Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent.  However, because of poor performance in the



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 23
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Serious staff shortages in the Department of Sericulture have caused
inadequate research and extension work and prevented increases in the
production of bivoltine silk, one of the project's principal objectives.
This situation is expected to improve soon, as the Chief Secretary,
Government of Karnataka, is endeavoring to streamline the cumbersome
recruitment procedures to permit more rapid hiring of staff. All other
project components are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
There has been sufficient progress in civil works and the acquisition
of equipment to enable 11 of the 17 apple packing houses and all seven walnut
processing centers to become operational by October 1982. Therefore, it is
most urgent that the project implementing agency fill their positions of
financial and marketing directors in order to formulate appropriate financial
and marketing strategies for their first operating season with the new
facilities. The training program under the project is progressing well, but
research activities are behind schedule due to delays in the appointment of
consultants.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study completed in November 1979 established the feasibility of
developing a forest-based industry in Bastar district. However, following a
GOI review of the study, it was decided that conversion of the natural forest
to pine plantations, as proposed, would not be compatible with the
Government's social, economic, and environmental policies for the area.
Further project activities have therefore ceased. The project is expected to
close on schedule in December 1982.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 23
Cr. No. 1178 West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected December 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
Under the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat projects very impressive results
have been achieved in the tree plantation programs. However, both projects
suffer from serious understaffing, especially among forestry extension
workers, and inefficiences in the management and organization of the social
forestry programs. A special review to be carried out jointly by GOI and
IDA in November 1982, is designed to address these problems.
Initial implementation of the West Bengal project, which became
effective in April 1982, has been satisfactory. Most senior staff are in
position, the monitoring and evaluation unit has been established, and
physical planting so far has exceeded appraisal report targets.
Initial project activities are underway on Credit 1286, signed on
September 7, 1982.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, and feasibility studies of
other watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This has now been resolved, and harbor
works should be finished by mid-1984. Village roads and water supply
components of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. In Andhra Pradesh,
the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was officially opened in February 1982;
harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily
following the resolution of design problems.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 23
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is satisfactory. The Central and State
Project Units are functioning efficiently. Detailed designs for the first
two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States have been
completed.  The pond improvement schemes are progressing rapidly, with large
numbers of loan applications having been submitted to the participating banks
for approval of financing.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child morbidity and mortality, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility in three districts in
Andhra Pradesh and in six districts in Uttar Pradesh. Implementation of the
project is proceeding well. Marked improvement has occurred in several
components especially construction, now that cement is being allocated to the
project on a priority basis. As a consequence, disbursements are
accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in Uttar Pradesh has
been appointed and the training program is well underway.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Following an impressive start in one test block where malnourishment
rates fell by 50% during the test period, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks in Madurai District. Progress in civil works
is now satisfactory despite early shortages of cement and the construction
work for the training facilities is to be completed this year.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
RAILWAYS MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Two years.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Indian Railways, assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and date
of first mission to consider the project
April 1980; June 1980.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 1981.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
September 17, 1982.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
January 1983.
Section II:      Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page -2 -of-2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) IR will maintain and expand the unit exchange com-
ponent pool as required by its maintenance needs.
(para. 45)
(b) IR will ensure that DCW production and remanufacture
of parts and components as a portion of gross rated
annual capacity will be 40% in the first year
(1985/86), 70% in the second year (1986/87) and no
less than 90% thereafter. (para. 51)
(c) GOI will ensure passenger fares and freight rates
adequate to enable IR to meet all operating expenses
and other costs. (para. 45)
(d)  Appropriations to Development Reserve Fund (DRF) will
be not less than Rs 21,000 million in the aggregate
for the period April 1, 1983 - March 31, 1985.
(para. 45)



