Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3431-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT I
October 26, 1982
Power and Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =     Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00                =     Rs 9.00
US$0.1111              =     Rs 1.00
US$111,111             =     Rs 1,000,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:   METRIC
Metric                        British/US System
1 meter (m)               =    3.281 feet
1 square meter (m2)       =    10.760 square feet
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.621 mile
1 ton-km                  =    0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km) =    0.621 pass-mile



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC        -    Alternating Current
BG        -    Broad Gauge (1.676 m)
cif       -    cost, insurance, freight
CLW       -    Chittaranjan Locomotive Works
DC        -    Direct Current
DCW       -    Diesel Component Works
DF        -    Development Fund
DLW       -    Diesel Locomotive Works
DRF       -    Depreciation Reserve Fund
DSP       -    Durgapur Steel Plant
EMU       -    Electric Multiple Unit
ER        -    Economic Return
GOI       -    Government of India
hp        -    horsepower
hz        -    herz or cycles per second
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ICF       -    Integral Coach Factory
IR        -    Indian Railways
IRWA      -    Indian Railways Wheel and Axle Plant
JPC       -    Joint Plant Committee
km/h      -    kilometres per hour
KV        -    Kilovolt
kwh       -    kilowatt per hour
MG        -    Metre Gauge
Mw        -   Megawatt
NG        -    Narrow Gauge (0.762 m and 0.610 m)
NTPC      -    National Transport Policy Committee
OIS       -    Operating Information System
PF        -    Pension Fund
POH       -    Periodical Overhaul
RACF      -    Railway Accident Compensation Fund
RDSO      -    Research, Designs and Standards Organization Indian Railways
RITES     -    Rail India Technical and Economic Services
RRF       -    Revenue Reserve Fund
RTEC      -    Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee
SFYP      -    Sixth Five Year Plan
TISCO     -    Tata Iron and Steel Company
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
v         -    volt
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND                         .           .           .1........... 
A.    Economic Setting and Transport Sector ...........                         1
B.  Transport Planning and Coordination    .                       .            3
C.    Transport Policy and Investment Allocations .....                         4
II. INDIAN RAILWAYS                              .....    6
A.    Organization, Management and Staff ............. .                        6
B. Training . .............                                                     6
C.    Infrastructure .................................        .                 6
D.  Motive Power   .                ............... .                           7
E. Rolling Stock                            ....    9
F. Workshops                             ....   10
G. Manufacturing Units                         ....    11
H. Operating Performance                         ....    11
I.    Traffic .         .       .......................................        15
J.  Railway Planning . .                 . .................. .                16
K.    Railway Investment Plan ........................   .                     17
L.    Performance Under Previous Projects .              . ......... .         18
III.    THE PROJECT ..........................................                          19
A. Background                             ....   19
B. Objectives                             ....   20
C. Description                            ....   20
D.   Cost Estimates .................................       .                  29
E. Financing . . . .                                 ......... . .    31
F. Implementation                           ....    31
G. Procurement                        ..........   32
H. Disbursements                            ....    33
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                              . . .                            33
A. General                    ..                          .........  33
B.  Diesel Component Works (DCW)                       .        .              34
C. Unit Exchange System                           ..                           35
D.    High Capacity Wagons ............................                        36
E. Other Items                              ..                                 36
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Alikhan (Financial Analyst),
R. Auzmendi (Economist), M. Melrose (Railway Engineer), E. Pogson (Finan-
cial Analyst) A. Sabeti (Railway Specialist) and A. Soto (Economist).



-2-
F.   Overall Evaluation  .....   ..........                     37
G.   Risks ...................... -.............                37
V.    FINANCE AND EARNINGS. ...      ...  66.         .37
A.   Introduction ..............        .     . * .0 . .       37
B.   Recent Changes in Financial Policies                     38
C.   Rates and Fares.    ........        .40.46.......   ......  40
D.   Past Performance                4 ......       .40
E.   Future Prospects ......  .. .   .... .  ..   . .         42
F.   Financing Plan. ............ . .0 .......... see ....    44
G.   Financial Aspects of Diesel Component Works.. ..         45
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS...............          45
TABLES
1.   Age Inventory of Rolling Stock, March 31  1981
2.   Summary of Operating Statistics 1973/74-1981/82
3.   Freight and Passenger Traffic 1950/51-1981/82
4.   Freight Traffic by Major Commodities 1969/70-1981/82
5J   Freight Traffic Forecasts by Major Commodities 1981/82-1990/91
6.   IR's Investment Program 1980/81-1984/85
7.   Summary of Financial Cost Estimates - DCW
8.   Investment Schedule - DCW 1982/83-1986/87
9.   Indigenous Production and Import of Wheels, Tyres and
Axles 1963/64-1981/82
10.   IR Wheel, Tyre and Axle Requirements, Present Manufacturing
Capacity, and Projected Production and Shortfall 1982/83-
1986/87
11.   Schedule of Training of Officers and Supervisors for DCW
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Summary of the Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of the Project
14.   IR Revenue and Expenditure Accounts 1976/77 to 1980/81
15.   IR Balance Sheet March 31, 1981
16.   Distribution of Key Revenue Expenditure Items as a Percentage
of Total Revenues
17.   Changes in Average Fare and Freight Rates in Relation to Prices
of Major Inputs of IR's Costs 1970/71-1981/82
18.   IR Revenue and Expenditure 1981/82 to 1986/87
19.   IR Forecast Balance Sheet as of March 31, 1982 to 1987
20.   IR Forecast Source and Application of Funds 1981/82 to 1986/87



-3-
ANNEXES
Annex A   Selected Documents Available in Project File
Annex B   Summary Timetable for Preparation of Operating Information System
Annex C   Railway Tariff Forecasts
Annex D   Principal Items Included in the Project
Annex E   Details of Economic Evaluation
CHARTS
IBRD 18812 - Indian Railways Organization
IBRD 22870  -  Diesel Component Works (DCW), Proposed Layout
IBRD 22871  -  Project Implementation Organization (DCW)
IBRD 24329  -  Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 13489Rl-  Railways
IBRD 13490Rl-  Railways   Depots, Sheds, Workshops, Manufacturing
and Remanufacturing Units
This report is based on information provided by the Government of India, and
on the findings of various preparatory and appraisal missions in 1979, 1980,
1981 and 1982 consisting of Messrs. M. Alikhan (Financial Analyst),
R. Auzmendi (Economist), N.E. Krough-Poulsen (Economist) M. Melrose (Railway
Engineer), E. Pogson (Financial Analyst), A. Sabeti (Railway Specialist),
T. Shima (Railway Engineer), A. Soto (Economist) and consultants D. Burns
(Mechanical Engineer), G. Fisher (Electrical/Traction Specialist), D. Rowe
(Manufacturing Management Specialist) and P. Voss (Electrical/Overhead
Equipment Specialist). Messrs. M. Collins (PMD) and J. Griffith (Loan
Officer) assisted in the appraisal. Reports and data related to the project
available in the Association are listed in Annex A.






INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.   BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting and Transport Sector
1.01      India covers an area of about 3.3 million square kilometres and
includes parts of the Himalayan mountain system, the Indo-Gangetic plain, and
the Deccan plateau of peninsular India. Total population is about 684 million
with 23.7% living in urban areas (1981 census) and the remainder in small
villages located mainly in the Indo-Gangetic plain, in the basins and deltas of
other main river systems, and along the coast. The principal centres of
population and economic activity are Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Madras. Other
main centres are Hyderabad, Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Kanpur. The main agricul-
tural areas are located in the Indo-Gangetic plain. The main coal and iron ore
deposits are found in the eastern part of the Gangetic plain, where the
majority of steel manufacturing and heavy engineering industries are also
located.
1.02      Deliberate government policy, combined with the concentration of
manufacturing and trading activities in a limited number of centres and the
dispersal of the majority of the population in a large number of small vil-
lages, has resulted in rail and road transport becoming the dominant modes of
transport, with the railway system providing mainly trunk services and the
highway system functioning mainly as a feeder system to the railways. The
roles of the various transport modes in India's motorized traffic in 1965 and
1981 are indicated below. The data are rough estimates, but suffice to indi-
cate the main features of the system. Traffic figures are rounded to the
nearest billion.
Billion Ton-km        Billion Pass-km       Annual Growth %
Mode      1964/65  1981/82       1964/65  1980/81       Ton-km  Pass-km
Rail        107      174            93       229         2.9        5.2
Road        31        92            76      331          6.6        8.3
Other        12       12             2         2         0.0        0.0
TOTAL      150       278           171      542          3.7        7.5
Agricultural and mineral products account for an estimated 70% of the total
revenue freight transport volume. A large part of agricultural production and
most mineral freight and manufacturing production has origin or destination in
Northern India with its concentration of population and heavy industries. The



-2-
major part of foreign trade ia channelled through the ports of Bombay, Calcutta
and Madras.
1.03      For a country with the size and diversified economic structure of
India, transport plays a vital role. It must provide efficient and reliable
transport services, and, given the scarcity of financial resources in the
economy, it must accomplish these objectives at a minimum cost, It is of
paramount importance, therefore, to ensure that the vital production activities
of the economy are not hindered by lack of transportation.
1.04      Traditionally transport kept pace with economic development in the
country. During the late seventies, however, the discipline and morale of
labor in transport agencies and their freight users alike markedly decreased,
while investments in transport infrastructure and facilities were given lower
priority than those for sectors such as agriculture, energy and industry.
Other factors such as substantial changes in the volume as well as in origin
and destination of traffic flows, further compounded the problem. As a result,
ports (particularly Bombay) and railways, the backbone of the country's tran-
sport system, were unable to adequately meet traffic demand. And the road
transport system, never designed to carry such traffic, had difficulty covering
the railway transport shortfall and did so only at high cost to the economy.
All this resulted in supply shortages of vital commodities such as coal, cement
and fertilizer, which brought about stoppages and dislocations to critical
economic sectors. However, in 1980-82, the general situation in the sector,
and specifically in railways and ports, has substantially improved as a result
of better railway and port management. Waiting time in the port of Bombay has
dropped from 30-40 days for bulk cargo ships in mid-1980 to almost none in
mid-1982. The improvement in railway performance is illustrated in Table 2.
1.05      The railways have traditionally been the main mode of motorized
transport in India and retained their relative position more or less unchanged
up to the beginning of the 1950's, when the railway share of motorized land
transport was estimated at 90% of total ton-km and 75% of total pass-km. Over
the following two decades, highway freight and passenger transport increased
rapidly while the railways' share declined to 65% of total freight traffic and
40% of total passenger traffic, with a corresponding increase in the share of
road transport. With respect to freight, this development was due to the
increasing market for high-value goods moving over short and medium distances,
where highway transport has inherent advantages over railway transport. With
respect to passenger traffic, the main reason for the reduced railway share is
that long-distance passenger traffic has tended to increase at a slower rate
than short-distance commuter traffic, which can generally be carried more
economically by road except for large and dense population centres such as
Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
1.06      Compared with railways and highway transport, the other modes of
transport are at present of minor importance as general goods and passenger
carriers: coastal shipping and pipelines each carry about 3% of the total
freight traffic in terms of ton-km; air transport carries about 1% of total
pass-km. These modes are, however, important within their specialized areas,
and there is scope for considerable expansion within each mode because of the



-3-
size of the country and its geographical features. Consequently, projects for
expansion of coastal shipping of coal and pipelines for transport of crude oil,
gas and petroleum products are currently being undertaken by the Government.
B. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.07      The Indian transport sector is under the jurisdiction of various
ministries: ports, shipping and roads are under the Ministry of Shipping and
Transport; railways are under the Ministry of Railways; civil aviation under
the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation; and pipelines under the Ministry of
Petroleum. Planning and coordination is undertaken within the context of
overall national and regional plans.
1.08      The present institutional arrangements for transport and coordination
at the Central Government level consist of: (a) a Cabinet Committee on Tran-
sport and Tourism; (b) a Secretaries' Committee on Transport, Tourism and
Aviation; (c) a Transport Development Council and an Inland Water Transport
Board, which coordinates policies between the Centre and the States; and (d) an
Interstate Transport Committee which regulates interstate road transport. The
committees described under (a) and (b) above are standing committees which are
not concerned with the day-to-day process of planning. They provide a forum
for discussion and their recommendations are not binding. While railways are
exclusively under the Central Government, highways and road transport, minor
ports and inland water transport are under the jurisdiction of Central and
State Governments.
1.09      This organizational set up, which has resulted in insufficient coor-
dination within the transport sector, was a matter of concern and of frequent
exchange of views between GOI and the Bank Group for several years. In view of
the increasing importance of addressing on a sectoral basis issues such as the
high share (63% in 1979/80) of the transport sector's oil consumption in the
country's oil bill, and of formulating investment, pricing and operating
policies aimed at minimizing the resource cost to the economy of the transport
sector's services, a special study group, the National Transport Policy Commit-
tee (NTPC), was created in April 1978. The NTPC, with the assistance of
experts provided by UNDP, carried out a study which was presented to GOI in
1980. A review by the Bank indicates that the study's suggestions and recom-
mendations are basically sound and that they will provide a framework for
better development of the country's transport sector. GOI approved most of
NTPC recommendations in a cabinet resolution of March 1982. The country is in
the process of starting the implementation, and in such a vast country with a
complex government structure, each transport policy change will have undoub-
tedly to overcome all sorts of difficulties to be finally implemented.
1.10      For national transport investments, the Planning Commission assesses
and approves for inclusion in the national plan, the investment proposals
emanating from the transport sector. The national plan thus formulated by the
Planning Commission must subsequently be approved by the Government and the
National Development Council.



-4-
1.11      For transport pricing, the overall responsibility lies with the
Central Government, except in the case of road transport where the respon-
sibility is shared by the Central, State and local authorities. As a result,
the type, level and structure of taxes and road user charges vary considerably
from one state to another. A number of studies 1/ have recommended improve-
ments to make the system more efficient, less costly in terms of time and
requirements to fulfill and geared to a more uniform cost-based structure.
Some of these recommendations have been partially implemented by a few states,
but a general application has proved difficult to attain. In the case of
railways, as mentioned in paras 5.04 and 5.05, a committee convened by Govern-
ment has studied the rail transport's rate structure and has recommended a
number of measures to improve, inter alia, the tariff structure. Some measures
have already been taken by Indian Railways with the final objective of achiev-
ing a fully distributed cost-based tariff structure, which currently is not
true for some segments of traffic.
C. Transport Policy and Investment Allocations
1.12       The Government's economic objectives were stated in the Sixth
Five-Year Plan 1980-85. The Plan represents an attempt at realizing high
average growth in the economy by increased emphasis on irrigation, rural
development and power. India's current long-term policy for the transport
sector generally aims at the further development of a transport system which
can efficiently meet the increased transport demand resulting from growth in
the economy. This policy would be implemented through increased support of the
highway sector with particular emphasis on facilitating transport in rural
areas; encouragement of increased efficiency of railway transport operations;
and discouragement of growth in and decongestion of the central business dis-
tricts of large metropolitan regions. Of the total public investment in the
Five-Year Plan, Rs 101.6 billion or 10.4% would be allocated to transportation.
Transport investment outlays are shown below (1951-78 representing outlays in
current prices and 1980-85 planned outlays in 1979-80 prices):
1/ Motor Vehicle Taxation Enquiry Committee (1950), Wankhede Study Group
(1971), National Transport Policy Committee (1980).



-5-
Rs Million
Plan Period         Total Plan         Transport          Percent Transport
1951-56 (First)      19,600                4,340                 22
1956-61 (Second)    46,720                11,040                 24
1961-66 (Third)      85,770               19,810                 23
1966-69 (Inter)      66,250               10,320                 16
1969-74 (Fourth)   150,020               25,180                  16
1974-78 a/(Fifth)  289,910               41,370                  14
1980-85 (Sixth)    975,000              101,620                  10.4
a/  The 1974-1979 Five-Year Plan was cut short by the defeat of
the Congress Government in 1978.
1.13      The relative allocation of public transport investment funds between
the various modes of transport, with the exception of pipelines, is shown
below, 1951-78 representing actual allocations and 1980-85 planned allocations
(in percent):
Rail    Roads    RTCs a/    Ports    Ships    Aviation
1951-56            50      34         0           7         4          5
1956-61            65      20         2           3         5          5
1961-66            67      22         1           5         2          3
1966-69            50      30         5           6         3          6
1969-74            37      34         5          11         6          7
1974-78            38      28         9          11         9          5
1980-85            42      28        10           6         6          8
Average            50       28         4          7         5          6
a/  Public Sector Road Transport Corporations, mainly
for passenger transport.
1.14      The railway and road transport sectors have together received more
than 80% of the public investment funds for transport over the past three
decades. While railways used to get on the average 60% more than roads and
road transport, the relative balance has changed, in line with the rapidly
expanding role of road transport. The large port investment allocations during
the period 1969-78 reflect an expansion program on the east coast which is
substantially completed. The Sixth Plan port allocation includes only a
nominal amount for the construction of a new port at Nhava Sheva, which was
approved by GOI in early 1982. The inclusion of this project would substan-
tially change the indicated percentages.



-6-
II.  INDIAN RAILWAYS
A. Organization, Management and Staff
2.01      The network of Indian Railways (IR) is owned and managed by GOI.  Its
operations are controlled and directed by a Board of five members headed by a
Chairman who is ex-officio a Principal Secretary to the Government of India
reporting to the Minister of Railways. One board member, the Financial Commis-
sioner, has discretionary powers to report directly to the Minister of Finance
on financial matters. The Board, therefore, performs the dual functions of a
Secretariat to the Ministry of Railways and of an executive body responsible
for railway operations. In financial matters the Government of India, through
Parliament, oversees implementation of recommendations made by the Railway
Convention Committee and other parliamentary committees.
2.02      IR is the nation's largest single undertaking, with a capital invest-
ment of some Rs 75 billion and a total staff strength of about 1.67 million.
There are nine Zonal Railways, each of which is under the control of a General
Manager, and each zone is a large system on its own account. The quality of
senior staff at Central and Zonal Headquarters is high and their knowledge of
modern railway technology is good. IR also has three factories engaged in the
manufacture of locomotives and rolling stock. A new factory is under construc-
tion for production of wheels and axles, partly financed under Credit 844-IN.
IR's organization is illustrated in Chart IBRD 18812.
B. Training
2.03      Training of staff is given high priority and is considered crucial by
IR management in maintaining a high standard of operations, providing for staff
development, and in keeping abreast of rapid technological changes. The train-
ing for particular jobs is done in the field at Zonal Training Schools in each
zone. All schools have well equipped facilities.
2.04      In addition to the Zonal Training Schools, there are four Central
Training Institutes where IR offers courses to its own personnel, as well as to
personnel from African and Asian Railways: Sudan, Korea, Zambia, Nigeria,
Bangladesh and others.
C. Infrastructure
2.05      IR operates over 60,000 route-km, of which about 13,000 km have
multiple track. IR's trackage is shown below by gauge and category (in km):



-7-
Running     Sidings                  Of which
Gauge         Track        Yards       Total     Electrified
Broad        45,167       20,269       65,436       13,114
Metre         26,447       7,815       34,262          329
Narrow        4,246          534        4,780            0
Total        75,860       28,618      104,478       13,443
Source: IR, Annual Statistical
Statements 1980-81.
About 63% of total track is broad gauge (BG), 33% is metre gauge (MG), and the
remaining 4% is narrow gauge (NG). About 20% of BG and 1% of MG track are
electrified. Of total BG running track, 24,000 km or 15,000 route-km con-
stitutes the heavy density lines over which average traffic density exceeds 20
million gross ton-km per year.
D. Motive Power
2.06      IR's traction policy has been under continuous review in the last two
decades. The two most important studies on traction policy, before the energy
crisis of 1973, were a "Study of Electrification and Dieselization on Indian
Railways" in 1963 (known as the Sahai Committee Report), and the National
Council of Applied Economic Research Study of 1970. These studies set the
policy for a moderate pace of electrification of railway lines in the country
coupled with a very rapid replacement of steam traction by diesel and electric.
In view, however, of the huge increase in the price of petroleum derivatives
after 1973, higher priority has been given to electrification and phasing out
steam. To this effect, various studies have been recently carried out by
GOI/IR, all of which are listed in Annex A and included in the Project File.
2.07      As of March 1981, there were 2,403 diesel electric and diesel
hydraulic locomotives, 1,051 electric locomotives and 7,393 steam locomotives
on IR (details of type and age group of IR's traction are shown in Table 1).
Reexamination of IR's traction policy confirms the need to hasten the pace of
steam traction replacement. Also, the recent studies conclude that, because of
rapid oil price increases, the electrification in relative terms is becoming
progressively more economical. In order to obtain maximum benefits from diesel
and electric traction, however, it is essential to improve the performance of
locomotives, to reduce their operating and maintenance costs, which are at
present higher than those of the comparable diesel and electric locomotives in
developed countries, and to provide a better flexibility in train operation.
2.08      In the 1960's, IR began manufacturing diesel electric, diesel
hydraulic, AC and DC electric locomotives in order to reduce dependence on
steam traction and reduce foreign exchange requirements for motive power mod-
ernization. At the Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW), located in Varanasi,



-8-
manufacture of diesel electric locomotives was set up in collaboration with
ALCO, United States; at the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW), the diesel
hydraulic locomotive manufacture was set up in collaboration with MAK, Federal
Republic of Germany, and the AC electric locomotive manufacture was also set up
in collaboration with the 50Hz Group (France, Germany, Switzerland and Bel-
gium). At CLW, IR also manufactures a limited number of DC electric locomo-
tives for replacement of DC traction around Bombay, which has the oldest elec-
trified section of the Railways and the only DC section in India.
2.09      Since the acquisition of designs and start up of manufacture of
locomotives in India, considerable improvements and innovations have taken
place elsewhere in diesel and electric traction technology which have resulted
in reduced manufacturing, operation and maintenance costs; and improved operat-
ing performance. These improvements have yet to be incorporated into locomo-
tives manufactured by IR.
Diesel Electric Locomotives
2.10      Considerable potential exists for improving the reliability and
efficiency of diesel electric locomotives manufactured by IR. The ongoing
railway modernization and maintenance project, Credit 844-IN, provides support
for engine testing, building of facilities for such testing and acquisition of
proven new design parts and components for the purpose of adapting them to the
Indian operating environment. Progress on this element of Credit 844-IN has
been very difficult, mainly due to unwillingness of reputable manufacturers to
part with their know-how. With manufacturers not willing to assist in advanc-
ing IR's basic knowledge quickly, the Railway has had to greatly increase the
scope of testing facilities, instrumentation, and thus the implementation time,
in order to carry out the required work for improving the locomotives.
2.11      The continued increase in IR's need for imported diesel fuel and
rising costs have made it even more important for the Railways to improve the
efficiency of its motive power in general and diesel locomotives in particular.
There is significant potential for improved fuel efficiency of the existing
fleet of DLW-built diesel engines. Under the project, improved fuel efficiency
and consumption will be addressed (paras. 3.07 and 3.34-3.39). In addition, IR
requires a medium range horsepower main line diesel electric locomotive for
work train, branch line operation and other light duties in order to eliminate
steam traction completely from trunk routes. During negotiations, an under-
standing was reached with GOI/IR regarding the timetable for introducing the
medium range locomotive into operation.
Electric Locomotives
2.12      The present AC electric locomotive manufactured in India, designated
the WAM4, was derived by IR's own Research, Design and Standards Organization
(RDSO) from an Alsthom design of the 50 Hz Group and is approximately 27 years
old. The only major change made to the design was the replacement of the
original mono-motor bogie by a three-axle bogie with the same axle-hung motors
of the WDM2 diesel electric locomotive manufactured by IR. When the WAM4
locomotive was first introduced, there were numerous performance problems.



-9-
Although problems of the traction motors have been gradually eliminated, the
electrical controls and transformer are still unable to provide adequate power
for the motors. Obsolescence of WAM4 design and features has resulted in lower
availability and higher operating and maintenance costs than experienced with
modern electric locomotives used by other railways. While a more versatile
locomotive is required by IR to allow full utilization of electrified routes in
the future, it is important to continue improving the 1,051 electric locomo-
tives now operating on the system (para. 2.14).
2.13      A geograpically specific problem of electric traction occurs at the
major industrial centre and port of Bombay which is connected to the rest of
the IR network by two 1,500 V DC electrified lines. These two lines are Bom-
bay-Igatpuri on the northeast section and Bombay-Pune on the southeast section.
The northeast approach to Bombay includes a-heavy-graded 14-km section, known
in India as ghat section of 1 in 37 (uncompensated) and a 67-km hilly section
with a gradient of 1 in 87.5 (compensated). The southeast approach has a 28 km
ghat section with a gradient of 1 in 37 (uncompensated). The present classes
of locomotives manufactured by IR and used on the ghat sections have proved
unsatisfactory for the specific requirements of banking duties, causing fre-
quent wheel slips, stalls and partings of trains. In addition, due to inade-
quate capability of the existing locomotives, the train load limits on the DC
graded sections are lower than load limits on adjacent AC electrified sections.
Thus, the train loads have to be reduced prior to entering the DC ghat sec-
tions. As a result, operating costs and line-capacity utilization are adver-
sely affected, indicating a need for special duty DC electric banking locomo-
tives or partial conversion to AC traction for these sections.
2.14      Under the ongoing project, Credit 844-IN, the Association provided
support for IR to improve the technology of its existing mainline AC and the DC
banking locomotives. The project supported import of thyristor con-
trol/transformer sets to be tested on three groups of the present AC electric
locomotives and complete electricals for developing prototype modern DC banking
locomotives.  The thyristor control transformer scheme has made some progress
and two locomotives modified by local manufacturers have begun their testing
period. Further, a contract has been finalized for ten thyristor sets to be
supplied by a foreign manufacturer (Brown Boveri Company, Switzerland). These
actions will considerably enhance the operating efficiency of the existing AC
and DC locomotive fleet. It is, however, indispensable to try and update
India's technology in electric locomotives as a pre-requisite to the stepped up
electrification program envisaged in the Sixth Five-Year Plan. Accordingly,
under the project, modern AC mainline locomotives are to be imported and tested
for choosing the new generation of IR electric locomotives (paras. 3.25-3.27).
E. Rolling Stock
2.15      The current passenger stock includes 70 diesel rail cars, 2,361
electric multiple units (EMU); and 34,475 coaches. Details-of passenger stock
and their age group are given in Table 1. The present fleet of freight wagons



-10-
is about 402,000 units, equivalent to 541,000 four-wheeler wagons, IR's stand-
ard measure of freight capacity. Details of IR's rolling stock fleet by type
and age group are also given in Table 1.
F. Workshops
2.16      IR's maintenance workshops were set up and equipped in the latter
half of the nineteenth and early twentieth century by the then State and Com-
pany Railways. At the time of integration of the Railways in 1952, there were
41 workshops dealing with the overhaul of rolling stock and motive power. The
size of these workshops varied from 150 to 15,000 employees. The workload and
product mix in these units were governed by the need for self-sufficiency of
each individual State/Company Railway, resulting in a proliferation of diverse
activities for different types of rolling stock in individual workshops, which
continues today.
2.17      While workshops mainly undertake periodical (programmed) overhauls
and manufacture and remanufacture of parts and components, running repairs are
performed in a large number of locomotive sheds and carriage and wagon depots
dispersed through the country. These small repair units so far have been
provided with limited machinery and plant, mainly through transfer of old
machines from workshops.
2.18      The last 25 years of planned development on the IR has brought about
extensive changes in the mode of traction from steam to diesel and electric.
About 3,000 diesel and electric locomotives introduced since 1960 now carry
about 80% of the total freight traffic. During the same period, the number of
freight wagons in the fleet has grown two and a half times and the passenger
stock has doubled. About 7,500 steam locomotives remain in service.
2.19      In spite of substantial increases in equipment holdings, complexity
of technology and diversity of product mix since integration, IR's investment
in workshops has been considerably lower than that required to sustain an
adequate maintenance level. In the past 25 years, investment in workshops has
averaged only 3.5% of the investment made in rolling stock and motive power,
instead of the normal 7% to 11%. Besides, about 45% of investment in workshop
machinery and plant has been exclusively for the manufacturing units: DLW, CLW
and ICF. A 1977 detailed survey showed that of a total of 24,546 machines, 77%
of those in mechanical workshops, 53% in production units and 46% in diesel and
electric locomotive sheds and repair lines were over 15 years old. The gap
between maintenance facilities and requirements has been widening rapidly. At
the same time, the level of parts and components available for maintenance in
the past has been substantially lower than required by the Railways. The
result has been low out-turn and quality of maintenance, low availability of
spare parts and components, and more importantly, decrease in reliability of
motive power and rolling stock. This situation is aggravated because a large
percentage of IR's rolling stock and motive power is reaching the age group for
which heavy repair and overhaul are required.



-ll-
2.20      Under the on-going Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project,
Credit 844-IN, the Association provided support for the first phase of IR's
program for improving its maintenance organization, facilities and procedures.
The proposed project will provide further assistance in improving IR's main-
tenance capability and quality (paras. 3.07-3.24).
G. Manufacturing Units
2.21      IR's main manufacturing units are the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works
(CLW) at Chittaranjan, the Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) at Varanasi, and the
Integral Coach Factory (ICF) at Madras. The CLW was set up in 1950/51 for the
manufacture of steam locomotives. Production in this shop was diversified in
the mid-1960's, and by 1972 this unit had switched entirely to the manufacture
of electric locomotives, diesel hydraulic shunters and a variety of components
for diesel electric locomotives and other equipment. The ICF commenced produc-
tion of coaches in 1955/56 and later added electric multiple units to its
product line. The DLW began production of diesel electric locomotives in
1964/65. A large proportion of the original equipment installed in the three
production units has already served its useful economic life.
2.22      Under on-going Credit 844-IN, assistance is provided for modern-
ization of CLW and DLW. Construction and equipping of a wheel and axle plant
is also included in this on-going project (para. 3.24). In addition, GOI/IR
are studying the coach manufacturing in India and ways to meet future needs,
Improvement of technology and augmentation of capacity.
2.23      IR's manufacturing, remanufacturing and maintenance activities are
growing and rapidly becoming more complex.  A need to strengthen IR's organiza-
tion and management to adequately cover these expanding activities has become
evident and has been the subject of extensive discussions between IR and the
Bank. Accordingly, IR has agreed that an in-depth study for the preparation of
a corporate plan covering present and future manufacturing activities and for
the evaluation of alternative management and administrative approaches to its
production operations would be carried out in the future. During negotiations
an understanding was reached on the terms of reference of the study, timetable
for completion of the study and for implementation of mutually accepted recom-
mendations arising from this study.
H. Operating Performance
2.24      IR's operating performance for the period 1972/73 to 1981/82 is given
in Table 2. The best performance level for the most significant operating
indicators during the nine year period has been underlined in Table 2 for easy
reference. The overall performance of IR compared to other railway systems in
developing countries remains generally satisfactory. While the 1981/82 results
show definite upswings in many of these indicators, a number of them, espe-
cially in motive power and equipment, are still faltering. The Bank and IR
have been in the process of formulating a project to address these problems
and, in the project now under consideration, a first step will be taken through



-12-
the import and testing in service of modern AC locomotive prototypes, and to
improve reliability and efficiency of the diesel electric fleet.
2.25      The reasons for the somewhat disappointing results in recent years
can be classified into three general categories: (i) factors external to IR and
over which the railways have little, if any, control; (ii) events external to
IR but to which the railways should be able to adapt smoothly and with
reasonable promptness; and (iii) problems largely within the realm of IR's
management to resolve. The first group includes a deterioration of law and
order in the country, a reduction in efficiency of major railway users, port
congestiori, and an insufficient level of investment in maintenance and renewals
in recent years, resulting from reduced priority for railway funds in recent
five-year plans. The second group comprises changes in traffic patterns. The
last category includes a drop in productivity of railway staff; insufficient
attention to reducing ccats; and the need to increase operating efficiency,
improve railway technology, and delays in adopting or introducing modern
management tools which would considerably enhance IR's ability to cope with
these problems.
External Changes Largely Beyond IR's Control
2.26      As seen in paras.1.12 and 1.13, the share of transport investment in
the national plan and the proportion of this share allocated to railway invest-
ment have decreased since 1966 in spite of continuously increasing traffic and
a rapidly rising need for renewal and modernization of rolling stock and main-
tenance equipment and facilities. The general deterioration of law and order
since early 1978, which has resulted in damage to railway installations and
rolling stock and in theft of railway property and materials, has also had
adverse effects on railway operations.
2.27      The efficiency of major railway users such as steel plants, coal
mines, power houses and the Food Corporation of India, has also deteriorated
since 1976/77, with adverse effects on IR. Steel plants are currently holding
10% to 15% more wagons compared to the past, and average detention of rolling
stock at the plants has increased sharply. Similarly, wagons loaded with
foodgrain traffic for unloading by the Food Corporation of India have suffered
long detentions, particularly in the eastern sector, including the Calcutta
terminals. Despite coal stocks at power plants being generally low, long
delays have been caused by unduly slow unloading of coal rakes by several power
plants and by using railway rolling stock as storage. Some thermal plants have
complained of coal shortage but have been slow to release coal wagons placed in
their sidings, thereby holding up other loaded stock awaiting placement. The
major ports of Bombay, Madras and Calcutta/Haldia have also faced low labor
productivity, with the result that, in addition to port congestion and deten-
tions of ships and railway stock, an increasing number of ships are being
diverted to minor ports where adequate facilities for handling them are not
available. This also results in a major shift in rail operations from
well-established routes and services to the limited capacity routes serving
minor ports. In recent months, however, there is a general trend towards
improvement in most of these fronts, which supports the belief that the general
decline in efficiency of ports and rail users has been halted.



-13-
2.28      A special study of terminal operations to be carried out by IR under
the proposed project (para. 2.31), will search for appropriate methods of
improving operations and reducing the detention time of IR's wagons. In search
of a solution to the port congestion problem, meanwhile, GOI has launched a new
port development at Nhava Sheva, while the Bombay Port Trust is preparing
interim measures to improve container handling at the existing port of Bombay.
External Changes to Which IR Should Adapt Promptly
2.29      Developments affecting several of IR's main users have changed the
traffic pattern and average travel distances of a number of IR's main com-
modities after 1976/77. One of the most important changes is the cessation of
foodgrain imports into the country. Before'this occurred, the foodgrain
requirements in the hinterland of each port were being met mostly from imports
through the port. Now all the deficit areas, including the south, are supplied
from surplus northern states such as Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. This
has resulted in sharply increasing haul distances of foodgrain from about 940
km in 1976/77 to 1307 km in 1981/82. Similarly, due to the port congestion
problem mentioned above, aggravated by stepped up volumes of fertilizer
imports, average travel distance of fertilizer traffic increased from 926 km in
1976/77 to 1,092 km in 1980/81. In the past, cement produced in the western
part of the country was exported. With a shortage of cement in recent years,
it is now being imported and distributed internally by the railways. Further-
more, disturbances in the northeast, which lasted until early 1981, completely
dislocated the pattern of flow of petroleum products in several areas of the
country, resulting in the need for major west to east cross-country flows of
crude oil. The average haul for steel traffic has also increased substantially
in recent years. Given the size and complexity of IR's internal structure and
the lack of a real-time information system, all these major changes con-
siderably strain IR's managerial resources and have heavy repercussions on its
operations. A more flexible and dynamic marketing and operating techniques
added to a modern information and telecommunications system would permit ade-
quate advance planning of those changes which can be reasonably foreseen and
would greatly reduce the lag time elapsed between a major shift in demand and
IR's adequate response to it.
Areas Largely Within IR's Control
2.30      After 1976/77 there was a perceptible drop in the efficiency and
productivity of railway staff. From 1977/78 onwards, there were frequent
agitations by staff, particularly in the eastern sector, which is the hub of
activity on Indian Railways. Strikes and lockouts and general lack of coopera-
tion and poor productivity seriously impaired the railways capacity to ade-
quately meet transport demand. IR is trying to improve its labor relations.
This has already resulted in less time lost due to strikes and agitations.
2.31      Equally important is an increasing emphasis towards improving railway
operating efficiency. To improve utilization of rolling stock, IR management
has already taken steps to improve the current loading performance, primarily
by isolating the coal wagon fleet and forming them into blocks of about 44



-14-
units each and running them as unit trains, cutting out intermediate shunting
operations and yard detentions. Major gains have thus been achieved in the
movement of bulk commodities. During 1979/80, 100% of iron ore and manganese
for export, 92% of petroleum products, 72% of coal and 24% of all other goods
were moved in block trains. This implied that about 60% of the total
revenue-earning traffic was moved in block trains. However, considering that
bulk commodities make up about 85% of the total revenue-earning traffic it is
clearly possible to increase the scope and number of block and unit trains.
Further, the productivity increases derived from unit train operations have
sometimes been offset by longer terminal detentions for loadings and unload-
ings, generally due to inefficient or deteriorating operations of railway
users, beyond IR's control. The matter deserves, therefore, careful scrutiny.
Accordingly, during negotiations it was confirmed that the Borrower will ensure
that IR and the main public sector agencies served by unit trains, would
jointly study the best techniques and the cost-sharing and demurrage arrange-
ments for efficient loading and unloading of unit and block trains carrying the
commodities for which they are responsible.
2.32      Cost reduction is also an important objective for the railways.  IR
urgently requires modern management tools to adequately run its operations. As
experience has proven in other complex railways, adoption of a real-time
operating information system and of a modern communication capability, would,
inter alia, immensely help reduce traffic congestion, considerably improve
rolling stock and motive power utilization and facilitate maintenance of motive
power and rolling stock, and enable IR to quickly adjust to changing traffic
patterns all of which will reduce operating and capital costs of the Railways.
2.33      Adoption of a real time Operating Information System (OIS) which
would help resolve most of the problems described above has been under con-
sideration by IR for several years. The Bank Group's audit of the Eleventh and
Twelfth Railway projects also recommended the use of computers to provide
immediate up-to-date information on freight carrying capacity and its optimum
utilization.
2.34      The IR Board appointed a seven-member task force in the Spring of
1979 to study operating information systems used by railways and airlines
outside India. The task group issued its report entitled "Real Time Computer
Systems for Freight Operations Control and Passenger Reservations" in August
1979. As follow-up in November/December 1981 a multi-disciplinary team visited
and studied rail operations control systems in UK, France, Federal Republic
of Germany, USA and Canada with the view to evaluating and assessing the pos-
sibilities of applicability/adoption of a system in India.
2.35      GO! has fully accepted the need for and approved introduction of an
online/real time computer based OIS for freight operations and management on
the Indian Railways and the related telecommunication and data transmission
network. The basic configuration of the integrated computer based freight OIS
would be a combination of centralized and decentralized functions. The core
functions , like control of wagons locomotives, train movements, routing of
traffic and empty wagon distribution, will be performed centrally and to per-
form this central function a system operating on Canadian Railways System or



-15-
British Railways System will be adapted and implemented to suit the needs and
conditions of the Indian Railways. Other functions like terminal and yard
management, locomotives and wagon repairs, crew and fuel management and
accounting, will be done on a distributed basis at the regional or zonal level
and would be developed and implemented indigenously to cover initially North-
ern, Southern and South Eastern Railways.
2.36      Preparation of a project for implementation of OIS and related
telecommunication network is being worked out between various Government agen-
cies. Specifically, the Department of Electronics and the Department of Atomic
Energy clearances are needed for implementation because, given the size of IR
and operation system needs, the importation of high powered computers,
software, and modern telecommunication equipment is required. These two GOI
agencies would have preferred to develop IR's needs indigenously, an approach
which would have set back the establishment of this high priority system
several years. This matter has been resolved by GOI's recent decision
described in para 2.35 above. During the negotiations, understanding was
reached on a timetable for preparation of an OIS and related telecommunication
network (Annex B).
2.37      Despite the multiple reasons behind the deteriorating capacity and
inferior performance of the railways in the late 1970s, improved management
measures to ensure effective functioning of its full labor force and resources
have restored most of the tonnage lost and arrested deteriorating operating and
financial trends of recent years. The promising results attained since late
1980 through a sustained increase in traffic after months of continuous
decline, point in the right direction. These short-term improvements should
not, however, detract attention from the basic problem, namely that sustained
expansion of capacity to adequately meet the expected growth in traffic,
demands a substantial improvement in technology, management and operating
procedures and a stepped up investment effort in critical areas. The proposed
project addresses these issues.
I. Traffic
2.38      IR's freight and passenger traffic statistics from 1950/51 to 1981/82
are shown in Table 3. In the last 31 years, railway freight traffic has
increased at an average annual rate of 3.1% in terms of total tonnage and 4.5%
in terms of ton-kilometres. The corresponding growth ratios for inter-city
passenger traffic are 2.3% and 3.7%. These long-term trends reflect, however,
gradually changing--and diverging--patterns of growth. While the annual rate
of growth of inter-city passenger traffic has accelerated from 0.5% (for pas-
sengers) and 1.0% (for passenger-kilometres) between 1950/51 and 1960/61 to
3.3% and 6.1%, respectively, between 1970/71 and 1981/82, the rate for freight
traffic has decreased from 5.3% (tons) and 7.1% (ton-kilometres) between
1950/51 and 1960/61 to 2.0% and 2.9%, respectively, between 1970/71 and
1981/82. While total tonnage, moderately increased from 237 to 245 million
tons or about 0.8% per annum during the last four years, ton kilometres
increased by 1.7% per annum (from 163 to 174 billion) due to a continuing rise



-16-
in average haul of freight. Suburban traffic, meanwhile, has grown at a sus-
tained rate of 5.4% for passengers and 6.3% for passenger-kilometres during the
last 31 years. Growth has levelled off in the last four years, however, due
mainly to shortage of rail equipment and terminal facilities. Traditionally,
seven groups of commodities have made up the bulk of railway transport in
India. In 1981/82 these seven commodities (coal, inputs and production of
steel plants, iron ore for export, foodgrains, petroleum products, cement and
fertilizers) comprised about 80% of net revenue earning traffic in terms of
tons moved and 75% in terms of ton-kilometres (see Table 4).
2.39      Details of freight traffic forecasts are provided in Table 5 and in
Annex C. Three different alternatives have been analyzed and commodity-wise
projections show that a total rail traffic ranging from 186 to 198 billion
ton-kilometres, with a medium forecast of 191 billion ton-kilometres can be
expected by the end of the Sixth Plan in 1984/85. In addition, by 1990/91,
total traffic would range between 212 and 258 billion ton-kilometres. Pas-
senger traffic, moreover, is expected to reach between 246 and 292 billion
passenger-kilometres by 1984/85 and from 307 to 444 billion passenger
kilometres in 1990/91. The freight traffic forecasts are less than the Sixth
Plan estimate of 220 billion ton-kilometres of total freight traffic in
1984/85. However, as indicated in para.2.39, the limitations of the Sixth Year
Plan are such that even assuming an efficiency similar to the 1981/82 level,
the Plan allocations would be generally insufficient to cover the needs of the
railways.
J. Railway Planning
2.40      Under Credit 280-IN (Eleventh Railway Project), a corporate planning
exercise was initiated by IR with the objective of ensuring adequate provision
of rail transport services for both passenger and freight in areas in which
railways could confer optimum benefit to the economy. The exercise was com-
pleted in 1976 and resulted in a Corporate Plan for the total railway system,
consolidating the corporate plans of the individual zonal railways on which IR
is based. The Plan outlines a proposed development strategy for IR for the
period 1977/78 to 1988/89 and covers passenger and freight traffic, traction
and rolling stock, line capacity, yards and terminals, shops, production units,
research and development, management and manpower and financial aspects. The
Corporate Plan also provides the framework for the modernization efforts sup-
ported by the proposed project.
2.41      IR's management, recognizing the changing transport environment in
the country, particularly the pattern of traffic, has begun revising the Cor-
porate Plan and updating it to cover a period up to 1994/95. In this endeavor,
much will be drawn from recent experiences in operations and from recommenda-
tions made in the National Transport Policy Committee and the Rail Tariff
Enquiry Committee (RTEC).
2.42      The planning, evaluation and project sanctioning system applied by
IR is defined in the various railway codes and policy directives. IR's inter-
nal planning is mainly undertaken for the preparation of annual investment and



-17-
works programs. Planning has improved in recent years and comprehensive
economic studies are undertaken for major new works such as gauge conversion,
electrification schemes and new lines. The various components included in the
proposed project were each subjected to comprehensive technical and economic
studies by IR in accordance with terms of reference agreed between IR and the
Bank Group.
K. Railway Investment Plan
2.43      To support projected traffic growth and finance asset replacement,
IR's approved investment for the Sixth Five-Year Plan (SFYP) period 1980/81 to
1984/85 totals Rs 51,000 million, including Rs 3,050 million for metropolitan
transport projects and investment in road services. The broad features of the
Plan are responsive to the country's needs although improvements are possible.
Investment of Rs 51,000 million is a minimum to meet urgent needs of asset
replacements and to sustain momentum of modernization. The plan allocations
are particularly short in telecommunications and in replacement of motive power
and rolling stock. The amount allocated for telecommunications excludes the
investment needed to implement an operating information system (para. 2.32).
Similarly the replacement of motive power and rolling stock is not adequately
covered, especially when considering the importance of phasing out steam trac-
tion to improve IR's maintenance and operations and to optimize the use of
coal; and the age and condition of a sizeable portion of the freight wagons and
coaches. Even if IR's efficiency is maintained--as expected--to the 1981/82
best historical levels, there would be little safety margin when compared with
the conservative estimates of future traffic growth presented in para.2.35, not
to mention the need to reduce operating expenses by phasing out obsolete motive
power and rolling stock. Detailed investment is presented in Table 6 and is
summarized below:
Sixth Plan Outlay for Railways, 1980/81-1984/85
Rs Million      _
Rolling Stock                                    21,000        41
Track Renewal                                     5,000         10
Traffic Facilities                                4,800         10
Electrification                                   4,500         9
Workshops and Sheds                               2,800          5
Machinery and Plant                               2,300          4
Bridge Works                                        900         2
Signalization  and Telecommunication                900         2
Metropolitan Projects, New Lines, Others          8,800         17
Total                                            51,000       100
Source: Sixth Five-Year Plan



-18-
2.44      The railway motive power and rolling stock production, based on
available resources and manufacturing capacity, has been estimated by IR as
follows:
Item                         1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
Diesel Locomotives               99         92          37          30
Diesel Shunters                  12          10         58          60
Electric Locomotives             66          66         74          84
Electric Multiple Units         188         67           -           -
Coaches                       1,050      1,125       1,150       1,172
Wagons a/                    18,000     20,000      25,000      25,000
Diesel Power Packs               20         20          20          20
a/ In terms of four wheelers.
L. Performance Under Previous Projects
2.45      In the past 32 years, the Bank has approved six loans and eight
credits for IR, totalling US$1,086.5 million. Implementation of the projects,
including the ongoing Credit 844-IN, has generally been satisfactory and on
time. Project audits have been carried out for Credits 280-IN and 448-IN
(Eleventh and Twelfth Railway Projects) and the findings are contained in the
Project Performance Audit Report Number 1658 of June 30, 1977. A project
completion and draft Project Performance Audit Report have also been prepared
on the Thirteenth Railway Project.
2.46      The Project Performance Audit Report concluded that the Bank Group's
contribution to the country's development through its involvement in railway
projects has been substantial. Bank Group assistance provided the foreign
exchange resources without which IR's replacement and expansion programs would
have been very difficult to carry out. The report also pointed out the need
to: (a) improve the planning, both at the sectoral level and within the rail-
ways; (b) introduce a better reporting system of the results of Bank Group
financed projects; and (c) use computers to provide immediate information to
optimize the utilization of its carrying capacity. Additionally, the report
mentions IR's difficulties in paying the full dividend on Capital-at-Charge
which IR owes annually to GOI (par4 5.01).
2.47      The issues listed under (a) in para. 2.42 have already been addressed
by GOI as mentioned in paras. 1.09 and 2.37-2.38. Additionally, starting with
Credit 844-IN, a thorough and adequate reporting and monitoring system was
introduced and has been functioning satisfactorily. A first step towards
resolving issue (c) this issue has been addressed by GOI/IR as described in
paras. 2.33-2.36. Regarding the dividend problem, although IR has met the full
dividend payment to GOI between 1976/77 and 1978/79, it has run into difficul-
ties in meeting this financial requirement. In this regard, changes have been
introduced recently in IR's financial responsibilities, and further changes are



-19-
under consideration by GOI/IR, in line with recommendations of the Rail Tariff
Enquiry Committee. This subject has also been addressed under the proposed
project as explained in paras. 5.03-5.06 and 5.09-5.11.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      Through six loans and seven credits approved between 1949 and 1975
(excluding Credit 844-IN), Bank Group assistance to IR totalled US$896.5 mil-
lion. The main objective of the assistance consisted of the rehabilitation and
subsequent modernization of railway infrastructure, motive power and rolling
stock and the improvement of operating efficiency, administration and planning.
These loans and credits were based on one to three-year slices of IR investment
programs and covered foreign exchange for acquisition of:
(a)   materials, parts and components for manufacture and maintenance
of motive power and rolling stock;
(b)   machinery and plant for IR manufacturing units; and
(c)   materials and equipment for line improvement works and tele-
communications.
In the 32 years that passed since the first Bank loan to IR, the main
railway infrastructure has been substantially improved, and domestic production
of diesel and electric locomotives and coaches and wagons, which the Bank loans
and credits supported, resulted in an improved motive power and rolling stock
fleet.
3.02      With a rapidly growing number of diesel and electric locomotives
nearing their mid-lives and in need of major overhaul, IR has acknowledged the
immediate need for a change in investment priorities in favor of modernization
of maintenance facilities and motive power and rolling stock design, as well as
local manufacture of critical standard items such as wheels and axles, which
can be more cheaply produced domestically. In support of IR's move in these
new directions, the Association approved the first Railway Modernization and
Maintenance Project, Credit 844-IN, in July 1978, for an amount of US$190
million equivalent.
3.03      Under Credit 844-IN, IR began tackling its most pressing and long
overdue isgues: maintenance organization, level and procedures; and tech-
nological design obsolescence of its motive power and rolling stock. In addi-
tion, IR continued the examination of its long term management and administra-
tion needs and its economic and financial viability. The major issues
addressed in the past three years by IR are as follows:
(a)   a master plan study for modernization and rationalization
of workshops;



-20-
(b)   relative economics of diesel and electric motive power;
(c)   railways motive power plan, medium and long range;
(d)   iailways passenger vehicle technology and requirements;
(e)   unit exchange spares and maintenance system for diesel
electric locomotives;
(f)   modernization of 1,500V DC Banking Locomotive;
(g)   railways real time information need for freight operation
and passenger reservation;
(h)   accelerated electrification; and
(i)   the revision of the Corporate Plan based on changes in
IR's operating and traffic environment.
3.04      The Bank Group has been involved in development, preparation and
review of the work mentioned above. Bank Group missions to IR have been sup-
plemented by consultants in such fields as heavy engineering, electric and
diesel traction technology, maintenance, telecommunications, organization and
operating information systems and intermodal transport. Also, arrangements
were made at various times for IR officers and those of other Government agen-
cies to visit transport and industrial organizations outside India. Findings
and preparation of the various subjects have been extensively discussed with IR
and GOI, especially the Ministries of Finance and Heavy Industries, and the
Planning Commission.  These findings and discussions form the basis for the
formulation of a number of projects by IR, including the proposed project.
B. Objectives
3.05      The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) modernization and
improvement of diesel electric locomotive maintenance and reliability; (b)
improvement of technology and performance of the AC mainline electric locomo-
tive; and (c) improvement of technology, design and operation of heavy bulk
movements. GOI has requested the Bank Group to support IR in attaining these
objectives.
C. Description
3.06      The proposed loan/credit would support the construction and equipping
of a shop for the remanufacture of diesel electric locomotives and parts and
components; the extension of the unit exchange maintenance system which began
under Credit 844-IN; modernization of AC traction technology; and construction
of high capacity wagons for bulk freight movement. The project is estimated to



-21-
cost about US$1,216 million equivalent, of which US$400 million equivalent is
proposed for Bank Group financing. The project consists of:
(a)   maintenance improvement consisting of:
(i) the establishment at Patiala, in Punjab State, of a
facility for reclamation of diesel electric locomotive
components and assemblies (paras. 3.07-3.21); and
(ii) acquisition of parts and components for the unit
exchange system in the workshops and running repair
facilities (paras. 3.22-3.24);
(b)   acquisition of complete modern AC prototype locomotives
for testing in Indian environment and operating conditions
(paras. 3.25-3.27);
(c)   acquisition of components and material for construction of
11,300 high capacity wagons (paras. 3.28-3.30); and
(d)   acquisition of test equipment, technical advisory services
and staff training for remanufacturing, quality control, and
design personnel required to achieve the project objectives
and know-how, technical advisory services, and training for
IR improved train operations and fuel efficiency (paras.
3.31-3.39).
(a) Maintenance Improvements
(i) Diesel Component Works (DCW)
3.07      Depending on the horsepower and utilization, the economic life of
a locomotive is generally regarded to be 15 to 20 years. At this age the
mechanical components - trucks, engines, pumps, etc., - are either in need of a
major overhaul or are obsolete. More important, however, is the fact that the
electrical wiring has by this time deteriorated to the point that electrical
circuit failures are the most common reason for locomotive failures. Many of
the world's major railways have determined that it is economically worthwhile
rebuilding (or more specifically remanufacturing) locomotives to get another 15
to 20 years life out of them. In the remanufacturing process, it is possible
to update the locomotive by applying many of the latest technological develop-
ments to the locomotive. Therefore, the locomotive is not only more reliable
due to the remanufacturing, but is also of a more advanced design.
3.08      The proposed DCW has been designed to remanufacture diesel electric
locomotives at the third periodic overhaul (POH). This entails overhauling all
of the various components that make up the locomotive. Since the component
overhaul processes will be the same as required for other repairs to the
locomotive fleet, it is proposed that DCW be sized and equipped to supply the
railways in Northern, Central and Western India with unit exchange of major



-22-
components and all of IR with a number of critical new spare parts. The major
components and subassemblies for the Southern and Southeastern part of the
Railways will be supplied by the Golden Rock shop near Madras, currently being
modernized. At present, locomotive components such as power assemblies, trac-
tion motors and pumps are overhauled by various IR shops around the country.
These shops generally lack the specialized equipment to clean, repair and
inspect the components; thus, there is a lack of quality control over the
components used to repair the locomotive fleet.
3.09      The proposed DCW was subject to a technical and economic study,
including location, plant capacity and product mix and existing indigenous
capacity. The study was carried out by the consultants Rail India Technical
and Economic Services Limited (RITES); and assisted by several railways and
remanufacturers outside India, according to the Terms of Reference agreed to in
Credit 844-IN. The consultants' report was comprehensive on remanufacture of
major assemblies and manufacture of spare parts. In addition, the Railway
Board appointed a team to prepare a report on a project that would have, as
priority objectives:
(a)   remanufacture of various assemblies to support the unit
exchange maintenance system; and
(b)   lQcomotive remanufacturing at the 3rd POH stage (about
15-20 years of age).
The Bank Group and the consultants retained by the Bank Group have found the
project preparation satisfactory.
3.10      The proposed location for the plant is about three kilometres north
of Patiala, in the Punjab State, between a Broad Gauge railway line and a
highway liniking Rajpura-Patiala. The site, which has already been acquired, is
recommended from among five possible locations. Major attractions of the
proposed site, in addition to availability of water, power and roads, are two
housing estates which have been already developed by the State Government
extending over 500 acres each. These estates have not proved as popular as
expected; consequently, a very large number of plots for construction of houses
are available. The proposed plant is to be located a few kilometres from
either estate and the suitability of the site allow room for future expansion
of activities that will follow the elimination of steam traction, increased
traffic requirements, and the extension of electrification. The proposed plant
design also makes possible the remanufacturing of electric locomotive com-
ponents such as traction motors, transformers, traction gears, pinions, etc.,
and is an integral part of IR's overall workshop master plan.
3.11      The critical elements of remanufacturing and component overhaul are
cleaning, inspection before and after overhaul, specialized repair machinery,
material handling and quality control. These elements have been addressed in
detail and are summarized below:
3.12      Cleaning:  Through use, locomotives accumulate many types of fouling
material, ranging from brake shoe dust to baked-on carbon. The traditional way



-23-
of cleaning is with the use of chemicals. Much of the fouling material,
however, if washed in new specialized ways, can be removed with water and
without the use of expensive and polluting chemicals. If chemicals are not
used, the water can easily be filtered and reused. Therefore, each of the
component groups will have its own specialized cleaning equipment and will
minimize the use of chemicals.
3.13      Inspection Before and After Overhaul:  It is important that the
condition of a component be initially assessed to determine what type of
repairs are required. For example, it is often not necessary to rewind a
traction motor armature when overhauling it, provided it can be fully tested
beforehand. Inspection is also required for various small "components" during
overhaul. At the present time most of the repair shops lack the necessary
equipment, and as a result the component frequently fails soon after installed
in a locomotive.
3.14      Specialized Repair Machinery:  With many locomotive components, it
is possible to build-up worn surfaces by welding, spray metallizing or plating
and machining the part back to standard or new dimensions. Other components,
such as armatures for example, can be rewound. It is therefore necessary to
have a range of machine tools that are capable of performing these specialized
build-up and machinery operations.
3.15      Quality Control:  At present, almost all component overhaul work is
performed by various running repair sheds and workshops. In order to ensure
quality in using the sophisticated equipment required as well as standardized
procedures and sound criteria for overhaul, precision equipment for inspection
and testing and appropriate skills are required, which for economic and practi-
cal reasons, are not and cannot be duplicated in every maintenance facility.
The result of poor quality control has been very costly. Quality control,
therefore, is given very high priority in design, equipment and training needs
at DCW.
3.16      Other Features:  The proposed unit will occupy approximately 50
hectares. The unit, as presently proposed, is shown in Chart IBRD 22870 and
will have the following features:



-24-
Major facilities - Locomotive remanufacturing shop
- Traction machines remanufacturing shop
- Power pack remanufacturing shop
- Cylinder liner and crankshaft manufacturing
shop
- Engine block remanufacturing shop
Covered area     - Workshop buildings            18,000 sq. metres
- Ancillaries/Services          6,000 sq, metres
- Offices                       3,200 sq. metres
Manpower         - Officers                         105
- Supervisory                     350
- Artisans                      1,588
- Unskilled                       620
3.17      The layout and the process flows were based on final engineering
plans furnished by consutlants (RITES, India). Detailed final process
engineering for the shop has been completed by an IR design team in consult-
ation with various railways and will entail possible technical collaborators
outside India. Ancillary service facilities such as stores, sheds, laboratory
and training schools will also be provided. IR is preparing a final project
report to include detailed process engineering. The date for completion of the
final project report has been confirmed during negotiations.
3.18      The total DCW peak load power requirement is estimated at 5 MW.  The
Punjab Electricity Board has agreed to supply power to the plant as per phased
requirements indicated to them. Also, the Punjab State Government has assured
a reliable water supply, and no water problem is expected since the shop's
daily estimated consumption is low.
3.19      The project has been designed with due regard to environmental and
worker safety aspects. A Punjab State law for environmental and pollution
control stipulates that all industrial enterprises must conform to environmen-
tal standards specified in the legislation relevant to the industry concerned.
The DCW meets these standards, and no significant adverse environmental impact
is expected from the project.
3.20      The DCW will require a total labor force and staff of about 2,600
employees, of which about 2,000 will be directly involved in locomotive
remanufacturing, component overhaul, manufacturing, plant engineering, quality
control and materials management. The remainder will be general management,
colony and security staff. The plant will generally work in two shifts. The
labor force and the number of shifts in the plant are adequate for efficient
operations. Project implementation and organization are treated in paras.
3.43-3.48.
3.21      The proposed DCW is estimated to cost about Rs 1,073 million
(US$119.2 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of some Rs 498
million (US$55 million). A summary of the plant's fixed capital cost is shown
in Table 7 and its investment schedule is shown in Table 8. In addition, the



-25-
technical advisory services and training for this project component is
estimated to cost about Rs 12.6 million as described in paras. 3.31-3.32.
(ii)   Unit Exchange System
3.22      Shortage of foreign exchange, lack of ancillary industries (espe-
cially for low off-take items), and priority given to manufacturing of new
motive power and rolling stock, have all culminated in a serious shortage of
spare parts and components for repair and overhaul of motive power and rolling
stock. As a result, even the scheduled repairs of motive power and rolling
stock are held up until a defective part or assembly is repaired. As practiced
world-wide and proven by a small-scale unit exchange program for diesel elec-
tric locomotives at IR's Kharagpur workshops, the maintenance downtime can be
reduced by over 50% through implementation of a unit exchange system whereby
the defective part is replaced and the locomotive or other unit returns to
service while repairs or remanufacturing of the part takes place.
3.23      The ongoing Credit 844-IN provided US$30 million for procurement of
critical components for the unit exchange maintenance system. Under the
proposed project, in the next three years (1983/84-1985/86), a further working
capital investment of about Rs 2,365 million (US$263 million equivalent) in
a rotating pool of parts and components is envisaged in order to further expand
the unit exchange maintenance program. The unit exchange pool will continue to
build up and, for diesel electric locomotive, will reach the required level
upon completion of ongoing projects at Golden Rock shop and the proposed DCW.
For electric locomotives, the component pool will reach adequate levels for
traction motors and some of the electrical components with the completion of an
ongoing workshop project at Nasik, near Bhusaval; and the proposed DCW.
3.24      The shortage of wheels and axles continues to be a major obstacle
in improving availability of IR's rolling stock. As shown in Tables 9 and 10,
domestic production of wheels and axles has deteriorated in the past three
years, increasing IR's dependence on imports. This situation is only expected
to begin improving in 1984/85 when the wheel and axle plant, being constructed
under ongoing Credit 844-IN, is expected to become fully operational. The
proposed project will provide for three years' import (1983/84 to 1985/86) of
wheels and axles to meet IR's requirement for manufacture and maintenance, out
of which the Bank Group would finance about 32%. This portion is estimated to
be required for the unit exchange maintenance pool. This project component is
estimated to cost Rs 2,195 (US$244 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
component of Rs 1,568 obtained (US$174 million equivalent). During nego-
tiations, agreement was reached with GOI that IR will maintain and expand the
unit exchange component pool as required by its maintenance needs.
(b) AC Electric Locomotive Testing
3.25      In addition to the need for improving and updating locomotive tech-
nology (paras. 2.12-2.14) in the light of future operating and service require-
ments, it is necessary to introduce a modern design, high adhesion locomotive
capable of hauling trains consisting of 4,500 tons on all IR 25 KV electrified
lines. With the accelerated pace of electrification envisaged in the SFYP,



-26-
domestic development of a new locomotive will delay the high benefits to be
obtained from introducing a modern and proven locomotive. Thus the project
will support the importation of up to 20 prototype AC electric locomotives of
up to four different types for testing in Indian operating condition.
3.26      The present generation of electric locomotives available from leading
manufacturers of high performance, rugged, low maintenance locomotives have
evolved from integrated designs in which the mechanical part, the electrical
part and the power control circuitry are finely tuned to each other to achieve
maximum performance and reliability. IR intends to invite leading manufac-
turers to propose the locomotive configuration from their designs and produc-
tion models that will best suit Indian Railways' operational requirements.
Only certain necessary features such as braking systems, safety equipment and
certain dimensions, pantograph, speed limits, etc., will be specified. To
ensure adequate hauling capacity for heavy train operations, the locomotive
must be capable of operating in Multiple-Unit (MU) configuration and therefore
a standard MU control system must be equipped on locomotives of each manufac-
turer.
3.27      This project component is estimated to cost a total of Rs 608 million
(US$67.5 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 405 mil-
lion (US$45 million equivalent).
(c) High Capacity Wagons
3.28      The present open wagon design used by IR is an eight-wheeler wagon
(Box) with a plate-fabricated bogie and an over-buffers length of 13.73 metres
and a net capacity of 56 tons. With the existing loop length on IR, this wagon
design limits the maximum gross tonnage of the freight trains to 3,495 tons and
a net of 2,400 tons on the Broad Gauge. Tests have shown that with a cast
bogie, presently manufactured in India in a limited number, and equipped with
cartridge-type tapered roller bearings, the capacity of the open top wagon can
be increased to 58 net tons with an over-buffers length of 10.71 metres. This
new higher-capacity design has been labelled by IR, Box N wagon. The use of
this type of wagon would increase the gross train loads to about 4,500 tons
with 3,200 net tons within the existing loop length. In addition, since such
wagons will be put into dedicated unit train operation for major users, they
will be equipped with air brakes. This will enable to increase the allowable
speed of Box N wagons to 100 kmph without increasing the braking distance, as
compared to IR's present fleet equipped with vacuum brake with a maximum allow-
able speed of 72 kmph, creating potential for increased line capacity and
service improvements to the users. Furthermore, use of corrosion-resistant
steel for highly susceptible parts (i.e., body sides, floor, end plates and
door panels) will permit higher utilization of the rolling stock as it will
reduce the down-time for maintenance.
3.29      The traffic development for bulk commodities, especially minerals,
requires greater efficiency of transport to reduce costs. Therefore IR has
decided, as part of its investment for replacement of overaged stock during
the Sixth Plan period, to order the manufacture of about 21,000 high capacity
wagons. The domestic manufacturing capacity of cast bogies is limited, and



-27-
corrosion-resistant steel production is nil. Under the proposed project,
support will be provided to import bogie, and corrosion-resistant steel for
manufacturing of about 11,300 wagons. This number of wagon is based on the
Bank's assessment of estimated capability of domestic fabricators in 1984-85
for the type wagons envisaged.
3.30      This project component is estimated to cost about Rs 4,520 million
(US$502 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 1,305
million (US$145 million equivalent).
(d) Technical Assistance and Training
3.31      Training of DCW staff and work force in respect of specialized tech-
nologies required for operation and maintenance of the plant would be carried
out in the remanufacturing, manufacturing and training facilities of the
machinery suppliers, foreign railways with similar facilities or service
facilities of the type to be set up at Patiala, and IR's own facilities such as
DLW. The details of estimated training program for DCW are shown in Table 11.
The chrome plating of cylinder liners and crankshafts and the manufacture of
rubber components will be initiated under licensing or technical collaboration
agreement with a manufacturer or service company which would include the
specific training needed. A total of 2,045 man-months of training for DCW is
provided under the project out of which 114 man-months would be overseas.
Total cost of training under the project is estimated at US$810,000 equivalent,
of which US$500,000 equivalent would be foreign exchange.
3.32      Technical advisory services for DCW under the project will include
assistance during the detailed process engineering, preparation of specifica-
tions, plant construction, commissioning and start-up amounting to an estimated
48 man-months at about US$11,000 equivalent per man-month, including transpor-
tation and subsistence. The total cost is estimated at US$590,000 equivalent
of which US$430,000 equivalent is estimated to be foreign exchange.
3.33      Bogie Testing:  The tests carried out by IR in the past in the area
of bogie design have been mainly aimed at improving the load carrying capacity
of the general purpose box wagons which are the backbone of the railway's long
distance bulk commodity traffic. With the advent of developments in the domes-
tic and international traffic, such as- containers, technological developments
in design, construction, maintenance and operation of track and rolling stock,
rapid increases in fuel and material costs, IR needs to increase its research
efforts in the area of vehicle design and standards. As a major step in this
area, IR recently adopted smaller wheel diameter for freight wagons. Although
technically sound and widely practiced internationally, this change will have
effects onlIR's rail life. Therefore a group was set up to measure the effects
and recommend improvements needed in quality of rail used by IR and any other
changes to be made in permanent way structure maintenance practices simul-
taneous with the introduction of smaller wheel size. To undertake this, the
project will support bogie acquisition and tests for evaluations needed as a
basic input for the future rolling stock design and rail standards. This
project component is estimated to cost US$3.4 million equivalent of which
US$2.0 million equivalent is foreign exchange.



-28-
3.34      Fuel Conservation and Train Operation Improvement:  Locomotive diesel
fuel oil and lubricant cost increases in recent years indicate a clear need for
additional fuel efficiency and conservation on IR. Experience has shown that
the greatest potential for fuel savings rest in the hands of the well-trained
locomotive driver. A systems approach to locomotive turn around, train
make-up, train operations and motive power and wagon design is another poten-
tial for fuel efficiency as well as improved plant and equipment utilization.
IR requires vastly expanded and improved driver training programs, and develop-
ment of optimum operating techniques.
3.35      Driver training programs, which incorporate a train simulator, are
producing encouraging results in a number of railways. Some of these railays
report fuel savings of up to 25% for individual drivers and overall system
savings of 2% to 5%. The simulator is a simple computer with input from a
locomotive control stand and an instructor's control unit integrated with a
software program which contains basic train and roadway profile data, all aimed
at producing train response details resulting from driver's actions.
3.36      In addition to motive power and equipment design improvements dis-
cussed in paras. 2.10 - 2.14, 3.28 - 3.30 and 3.33, improvements are needed
in facilities and procedures for locomotive turn around. Modern fuelling equip-
ment is needed to prevent spillage and to reduce locomotive servicing delays.
Strict monitoring and testing of use and condition of engine oil with the help
of modern techniques and equipment are another area for improving locomotive
performance and conservation.
3.37      An often overlooked potential for improved fuel efficiency in rail-
ways is the reduction of tare weight of freight wagon equipment through the use
of modern design and materials. Freight wagon wheels in use on IR are unneces-
sarily large and heavy. IR has recognized that there exists major potential
benefit from reducing the nominal maximum rolling stock wheel size. The
benefits of IR's new wheel size policy will be demonstrated along with lighter
design bogies, made possible with smaller wheels, discussed in paras.
3.28-3.30 and para. 3.33.
3.38      To develop the system of programs, facilities, and procedures for
improved train operation, fuel efficiency and conservation, a pilot program
at Moghalsarai, the western terminus of the "Grand Chord" is envisaged. The
Grand Chord is a section of IR's Broad Gauge System from Gomoh in the east to
Gaya and from Gaya to Moghalsarai in the west on the New Delhi - Calcutta
corridor, 380 km in all. This section is a serious bottleneck in that the
traffic is heavy - about 33 trains each way - and the terrain is difficult -
grades to 1 in 80. IR has a major effort under way to deal with the numerous
problems which grow out of this bottleneck on a large part of the system. The
proposed fuel efficiency and train operation improvement pilot program will
contribute to solution of these problems.
3.39      The fuel conservation and train operation improvement component of
the project is estimated to cost Rs 110 (US$12.3 million equivalent) with a
foreign exchange component of about Rs 57 million (US$6.3 million equivalent).



-29-
D. Cost Estimates
3.40      Items included in the project were chosen from IR's investment plan
1980/81-1984/85 totalling Rs 51,000 million (US$5,667 million equivalent).
Principal items included in the proposed project are detailed in Annex C. The
project is estimated to cost about Rs 10,942 million (US$1,216 million equiv-
alent) with a foreign exchange component of some Rs 4,628 million (US$514
million equivalent). However, the local manufacturers of machinery to be
procured through ICB under the project could win up to US$20 million equiv-
alent, thus reducing the most likely foreign exchange component to US$494
million equivalent.
3.41      The cost estimates are based on prices of January 1982.  They are
based on ex-factory prices for similar items manufactured in India and on
recent prices of imported equipment. A physical contingency allowance of 10%
has been incorporated in the cost of civil works for DCW. This is satisfac-
tory, since very little earthwork is required; architectural designs are rela-
tively simple for buildings and preliminary industrial engineering is complete.
Also, a physical contingency of 7.5% for machinery and equipment is included
for DCW, which is reasonable. Price contingencies for all project items have
been included to cover expected price increases until contracts are awarded as
well as price escalation during implementation and commissioning of DCW. The
price contingencies for all items in the project are based on an annual average
rate of 8% for local costs and 8.5% for foreign costs. The foreign exchange
rate was assumed to be US$1 = Rs 9. During negotiations, the cost estimates
were discussed and confirmed. The cost estimates are summarized below:



-30-
-RB Mllllon-                    -US$ Millton------    Loan/
Project Item                       Local    Foreign  Total        Local   Foreign  Total    Credit
a. Maintenance Improvements
Diesel Component
Works (DCW)                 575.5    497.7   1,073.2    63.9         55.3      119.2      55.0
Unit Exchange:
Locomotive Components   1,622.7    742.5   2,365.2   180.3           82.5      262.8      82.5
Wheels and Axles            627.3  _L567.8   2,195.1    69.7    174.2          243.9      56.0
Subtotal                  2,825.5  2,808.0   5,633.5   313.9    312.0          625.9    193.5
b.  Prototype AC Locomotives                                   I
for Testing a!              202.5    405.0       607.5    22.5       45.0       67.5      45.0
c.  Hi_Lh Capacity
Wagons Manufacturing
Components                  1,051.2  1,305.0   2,356.2   116.8    145.0          261.8    145.0
Fabrication & Misc.         2,163.8        -     2.L163.8   240.4       -        240.4       -
Subtotal                  3,215.0  1,305.0   4,520.0   357.2    145.0          502.2    145.0
d.  Technical Assistance
and Training
DCW                              4.5      8.1        12.6     0.5       0.9         1.4      1.2
Bogie Testing                   12.6      18.0      30.6      1.4       2.0        3.4       3.0
Fuel Conservation & Train
Operation Improvement         54.0      56.7      110.7      6.0       6.3       12.3       9.3
Subtotal                     71.1      82.8      153.9      7.9       9.2       17.1      13.5
Total Project Cost          6,314.1  4,600.8  10,914.9   701.5    511.2   1,212.7    397.0
Front-end Fee on
Bank Loan                      -        27.0       27.0      -         3.0        3.0       3.0
GRAND TOTAL                 6,314.1  4,627.8  10,941.9   701.5    514.2   1,215.7    400.0
a!  Includes test equipment where required
b/  Includes Rs 1,800 million in taxes and duties



-31-
E. Financing
3.42      Total foreign exchange component of the project amounts to about
US$514 million equivalent. The Bank Group would finance the foreign exchange
component of all items except the wheel, axles and tyres, of which only a
portion, related to the Unit Exchange Pool Component under the project, is
included in the proposed credit. Thus the proposed loan/credit is US$400
million equivalent representing about 39% of the project costs not including
taxes and duties. During the negotiations, GOI agreed to finance the remaining
US$816 million equivalent including US$114 million equivalent in foreign
exchange, and release funds in a timely manner and in accordance with the
implementation schedule. An amount of up to US$5.0 million is proposed to be
retroactively financed under the loan/credit for expenditures after November 1,
1981, to meet some of IR's costs of final process engineering required for
preparation of the DCW, preparation for testing of AC electric locomotives and
other project related costs.
F.  Ipeetto
3.43     IR will be responsible for the implementation of the project as part
of its ongoing works and manufacturing program. It has the necessary
capability and competence to carry out the project. A time-phased implementa-
tion schedule is shown in Chart IBRD 24329. This schedule, as well as progress
reporting arrangements, including GOI preparation of a final report upon com-
pletion of the project, was discussed and agreed to during negotiations.
3.44      DCW  Detailed engineering and design of the project is complete.
Final processes engineering started on May 15, 1982 and will be completed by
end September 1982. Civil work was started in January 1982. Machinery and
plant procurement is to start in January 1983 and be completed by October 1984.
Procurement, delivery and construction schedules are considered reasonable.
The 1984/85 production is to be about 40% of gross rated annual capacity and at
least 70% in 1986/87 and at least 90% thereafter. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached with GOI that these production targets will be met and that IR
will receive such budget allocations as will be sufficient to allow DCW manage-
ment to procure, as required, up to 48 man-months of technical support services
from suppliers of the plant technology to assist in installation of equipment,
start-up and monitoring of operations.
3.45      The DCW Project Management Team (mostly in place already) will have
primary responsiblity for project implementation. The organizational set-up
for project implementation is shown in Chart IBRD 22871. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOI that DCW will be adequately staffed at all times
with competent managerial and technical personnel and that any changes in
management staff will be minimal and not detrimental to implementation and
operation.



-32-
3.46      AC Locomotive   During the appraisal, a schedule for acquiring the
locomotives and testing them was agreed upon with IR. This schedule was dis-
cussed and confirmed during negotiations.
3.47      High Capacity Wagons  During the appraisal, a schedule for procure-
ment of material and components and contracting for fabrication of the Box N
wagons was drawn up and is shown in Chart IBRD 24329. During negotiations,
this schedule was confirmed.
3.48      Technical Assistance and Training  During negotiations, the technical
advisory services needed for DCW and details of the training program, the terms
of reference and timetable for testing of bogies were discussed and agreed.
G. Procurement
3.49      Items financed by the Bank Group will be procured by IR through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines except
for:
(a)   proprietary items which IR procures from particular sources
because of the need for procurement under license or for
continued standardization of equipment;
(b)   electric locomotives for the test and trails, which would be
procured by soliciting proposals from leading manufacturers
and evaluating them on the basis of technical and economic
merits to select up to four but no less than two most advan-
tageous types; and
(c)   contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or less, where the advantage
of ICB would be clearly outweighed by the administrative burden
thereof.
Local manufacturers are expected to bid for items under the project and a
domestic preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever is less, would be
applied in bid evaluation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
GOI that, when the lowest evaluated bidder is a foreign manufacturer, permis-
sion to import will be forthcoming immediately and no further review by any
agency of the Government will be made.
3.50      The proprietary items to be financed under the project are estimated
to cost about US$5 million equivalent or less than 1% of the proposed credit.
These items will be used for a unit exchange maintenance system for existing
locomotives. GOI and IR have made and are making considerable efforts to
encourage indigenous production, but quality and other considerations make it
appropriate to continue to import some of those items. During negotiations,
the final list of proprietary items to be financed under the project was dis-
cussed and agreed to with IR.



-33-
3.51      The total amount of contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent not
covered by ICB is estimated to represent a very small portion (less than US$10
million equivalent) of the proposed loan.
H. Disbursements
3.52      Subject to review and agreement with the Bank Group, savings in any
category of the proceeds will be available to cover increases in any other
category except proprietary items. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1987; but to allow time for possible late payments, the closing
date will be September 30, 1987. Disbursements under the project would be made
against:
(a)   100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported items;
(b)   100% of the ex-factory cost of items procured from domestic
suppliers; and
(c)   100% of the foreign exchange cost of training, technical advisory
services and installation and inspection of equipment requiring
foreign expertise.
A schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 12. The estimated disbursements
are about one year ahead of disbursement profiles for Bank Group loans/credits
in India. This divergence is a result of taking into account the experience of
previous IR projects and the nature of goods to be financed under the proposed
credit. During negotiations the disbursement schedule was discussed and agreed
to with IR.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01    Since the early sixties, IR has concentrated on improving railway
infrastructure and expanding the motive power and rolling stock fleet to carry
ever increasing traffic volumes. Concurrently with this expansion, IR moved
from steam to diesel and electric traction. Partly due to the relatively young
age of the diesel and electric locomotive fleet and partly due to foreign
exchange constraints, the workshop system had received relatively little atten-
tion during the last two decades, with the result that about 80% of machinery
and plant in the workshops is overaged and annual periodic overhaul (POH)
capacity was increasingly insufficient to meet requirements.
4.02    To correct this situation, IR launched a program aimed at modernizing
and improving the maintenance and manufacture of diesel and electric locomo-
tives and rolling stock, supported by the First Railway Modernization and
Maintenance Project (Credit 844-IN of July 1978). The proposed project is a
logical follow up of the previous one in that the rationalization of repair
shops is complemented by the construction and equipping of DCW. Further, the



-34-
unit exchange maintenance concept, introduced under the previous project, is
expanded under the proposed one to a size commensurable with the needs of the
railways. This expansion is achieved both through the establishment of DCW and
through the acquisition of locomotive components and wheels and axles. The
ongoing project also contains an element in support of research and development
activities aimed at improving motive power, in line with similar efforts
financed under Credit 844-IN.
4.03    Additionally, two areas not directly supported by the previous project
have been included in the proposed one: the manufacturing of high capacity
wagons for bulk handling and the technical assistance required to carry out
bogie testing, fuel conservation and train operation improvement.
4.04    The economic case for the proposed project rests, therefore, on a
reduction in maintenance and operating costs of motive power and rolling stock
throughout the system, as well as on a more efficient handling of heavy bulk
(coal, iron ore and other minerals) which constitutes one of IR's principal
commodity groups. With the project, IR will be able to make better use of its
assets and to accelerate its improvement in performance in order to allow it to
meet the increasing demands of the Sixth and Seventh Year Plans, while avoiding
a larger share of long haul goods from being diverted to the more costly road
transport system.
4.05    All the major physical components of the project have been evaluated
individually to assess their benefits: (i) the construction and operation of
the DCW, including the technical assistance and training required (accounting
for 9.9% of total project financial costs); (ii) the procurement of locomotive
components and wheels and axles for the unit exchange system (41.87%); and
(iii) the purchase of critical parts for the manufacture of high capacity
wagons (41.4%). No separate economic evaluation has been carried out for the
research and development investment in prototype locomotives, fuel conservation
and train operation improvement nor in bogie testing, all of which amount to
6.9% of total project costs. However, these costs were included, without
quantifying their benefits, in the calculation of the economic return for the
entire project.
B. Diesel Component Works (DCW)
4.06    DCW will produce or remanufacture parts, assemblies and subassemblies
which are currently either manufactured or repaired at other existing
facilities in the country, or else imported into the country. DCW will supply
the locomotive fleet in Northern, Central and Western India with unit exchange
components and the entire national system with a number of spare parts. DCW
will also remanufacture locomotives at their third scheduled periodic overhaul
(POH), estimated to take place around 15 to 20 years after the original commis-
sioning of the locomotive. As a result of this third POH, the locomotive
improves in reliability and performance due to substantial technological
improvements (para. 3.07) and its economic life is lengthened by about 20 years.



-35-
4.07    The economic cost of establishing the plant has been obtained by adding
the technical assistance and training input (Rs 12.6 million) to the total
financial cost of building and equipping the plant (Rs 1072.8 million) and
deducting import duties and price contingencies. Moreover, the foreign cost
has been shadow-priced at US$1 = Rs 10. This results in an economic cost of Rs
853.1 million. A residual value of 10% has been assumed after an economic life
of the plant of 20 years. To obtain economic production costs, financial data
have been adjusted by correcting costs for customs duties, excise duties and
sales taxes which, for most materials consumed by DCW, gives a reasonable
approximation of world prices. Since the production of DCW is not traded in
the market but a transfer price is assigned to it, border prices have been
estimated for all items. In the case of the POH of locomotives, the benefits
have been assessed at 70% of the avoided c.i.f. cost of purchasing a new
locomotive, in line with the commercial practice for remanufactured locomotives
in the world market (see Annex E). Naturally, the parts and components
produced by DCW which are incorporated into the remanufacturing of locomotives
have been excluded from the benefits attributed to the production of the plant,
thus avoiding a double counting of benefits. Under these circumstances, DCW is
well justified with an economic rate of return of about 22%. Moreover, a
sensitivity analysis indicates that if the benefits go down by 20%, the
economic rate of return comes down to about 12%; if the costs were to increase
by 15%, the return would be reduced to about 16% and if both elements change in
adverse directions but in realistic combinations (e.g. (i) benefits go down by
15% and costs go up by 10%, ER = 11%; (ii) benefits go down by 10% and costs go
up by 20%, ER = 10%) the rate of return would still be acceptable.
C. Unit Exchange System
4.08    The unit exchange maintenance system was a concept established in IR
through the workshop modernization program partly financed under the ongoing
Credit 844-IN. Although the concept has been successfully introduced, the
potential for sizeable savings in maintenance costs and in improved reliability
and utilization of motive power and rolling stock has not been tapped due to
the limited size of the original pool of parts and components. The proposed
project, therefore, will considerably expand the system by the acquisition of
locomotive components and wheels and axles, thus enhancing the benefits of the
system.
4.09    The economic cost of this element of the project would amount to
Rs 3,356 million, after deducting import duties and price contingencies and
assuming an economic cost of foreign exchange of US$1 = Rs 10. It has been
estimated that the proposed project will reduce the idle time of locomotives
and rolling stock awaiting repairs, both for normal maintenance and during POti,
resulting in savings in the number of locomotives, coaches and wagons needed to
carry the ever increasing traffic and to replace existing fleet. Moreover, the
reliability of locomotives will substantially increase, leading to further
savings in motive power and rolling stock because of better utilization of
existing equipment. It is difficult, however, to estimate the magnitude of the
benefits generated by this project element. The concept of unit exchange has
been introduced too recently in India to have meaningful results and the same



-36-
type of benefits can be generated by other elements of the ongoing First Mod-
ernization Project or the proposed one. Accordingly, the current evaluation is
based on minimum expected results and the resulting rate of return must be
regarded as a basic level of reference. For this reason, no sensitivity test
was carried out for the economic evaluation of this component. Assuming a
reduction of only two days per year in the average down time of locomotives and
one day per year for rolling stock and an average overall improvement in
utilization of rolling stock of about 4% and of motive power of 1%, the invest-
ment is well justified. Based on an investment period of three years, an
assumed economic life of assets of ten years on average (it varies, depending
on the component, from about 7-15 years) and a salvage value at the end of this
period of 20% (for some items it is as high as 50%), this project element would
yield an economic return of not less than 23%.
D. High Capacity Wagons
4.10    Three main benefits would stem from the manufacturing and utilization
of the 11,300 high capacity wagons to be partly financed under the proposed
project: (i) there would be a net increase in payload per train, with a much
less-than-proportional increase in transport costs, resulting in net savings
in transport costs of bulk goods; (ii) there would be a faster turnaround of
unit trains comprising the high capacity wagons because of the use of air
brakes which would allow for higher average speeds; and (iii) there would be
a decrease in the maintenance cost of wagons due to the use of corro-
sion-resistant steel.
4.11    Assuming a period of investment of three years, an economic life of
the rolling stock of 20 years and a salvage value of 10% of the capital cost,
the total economic investment of Rs 3,600 million would yield an economic
return of about 30%. A reduction in benefits of 20% would yield an economic
rate of return of 23%, while an increase in costs of 20% would yield a return
of 24%. The project, however, is more sensitive to variations in the tur-
naround time of the unit train. The average haul has been estimated at 650 km
with a turnaround time of five days. Should the turnaround increase to seven
days on the average, the rate of return on the proposed investment would
decrease to a still acceptable 20%.
E. Other Items
4.12    Up to 20 new electric locomotives will be purchased under the project
to be tested under normal operating conditions prevailing in India. They will
operate on the broad gauge in main line haulage of passenger and freight
trains. The normal acquisition of more efficient electric locomotives than
those currently manufactured in the country will generate considerable benefits
in terms of reduced maintenance costs, increased availability and hence, fewer
new locomotives required in the long run. The current acquisition is, however,
of a experimental nature designed mainly as a test of new technology in terms
of overall performance, operating and maintenance costs, rather than normal



-37-
full operation. Accordingly, no separate economic return was calculated for
this project component.
4.13    Likewise, no separate economic return has been estimated either for
the bogie testing, or for fuel conservation and train operation improvement.
F. Overall Evaluation
4.14    The project's overall economic return is 24%, including the cost of
components not separately evaluated. A sensitivity analysis indicates that a
decrease in benefits of 20% would reduce the rate of return to 17%; an increase
in costs of 20% would bring down the rate of return to 18%; and an unlikely
combination of the two variations would yield a rate of return of 13%.
Moreover, a lag of one year in project implementation combined with 20%
increase in costs would bring the project's return down to 15%, while a lag
of two years (again with 20% increase in costs), an unlikely situation, would
yield a return of 12%.
4.15    The foregoing economic evaluation is considerably conservative, since
benefits for passengers have not been included, and results of investment in
unit exchange systems in other countries suggest higher rates of return for
this component than those presented in this report.
4.16    The main beneficiaries of the project are the power, industrial and
agricultural sectors, particularly the main public and private industrial
enterprises, and inter-city passengers. Through the power and agricultural
sectors, a large proportion of small industries and rural population will also
benefit from the proposed investment.
G. Risks
4.17    All project components involve proven technology, except for the test-
ing and research elements for which technology is well established in other
parts of the world; technological risks connected with the project are there-
fore small. Additionally, in the past IR has successfully implemented similar
projects in a timely manner, and has built up competent managerial and techni-
cal expertise. Risks from inadequate project implementation are therefore
negligible.
V. FINANCE AND EARNINGS
A. Introduction
5.01      GOI's financial policy towards IR is designed to allow it to earn
net revenues sufficient to cover all expenses including depreciation and a
dividend to GOI. Funds for capital expenditure, which do not pertain to
replacement of assets, are provided by GOI and are added to a Capital-at-Charge



-38-
account, which is a liability of IR in perpetuity and on which IR is expected
to pay a dividend of about 6% per annum. The dividend, in reality, is more
like an interest payment as IR is expected to meet this obligation whether or
not it generates sufficient net revenues. IR finances capital expenditure for
asset replacement by a charge against revenues through the Depreciation Reserve
Fund (DRF). GOI generally grants rates and fares increases to IR at the begin-
ning of a fiscal year based on IR's resources and forecast of traffic to be
carried by IR in the ensuing year. The assumption is that the rates and fares
set at the traffic level forecasted would result in revenues sufficient to meet
the financial policy. As IR is a departmental undertaking of GOI, the commer-
cial freedom allowed IR is constrained by Government policy.
5.02      Financial arrangements with the Government and audit procedures are,
with some improvements noted later, the same as when the first IR Modernization
Project was appraised in 1978. The accounting function is efficient, well
organized and well staffed with satisfactory budget control and operating
systems. A formal traffic costing function has been established recently and
IR is continually making improvements to this important activity. In addition
to a large and efficient internal audit, an exhaustive statutory audit is
conducted under the direction of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
who reports to the Parliament through the Public Accounts Committee. Audit
arrangements are thorough and satisfactory. Audit financial statements are
finalized within eight months of year end and presented to Parliament within
ten months. At the same time, IR's revised estimates for the current year and
budget estimates for the following year are presented to Parliament for
approval. IR has under previous credits consistently provided IDA with interim
and completed (audited) accounts. Thus, a specific covenant is not needed. IR
also provides reports of project expenditure in a timely manner and to the
satisfaction of IDA, as mentioned in para.2.43.
B. Recent Changes in Financial Policies
5.03      Some beneficial changes in financial practices have been made in
recent years and GOI is now considering measures which would give IR greater
commercial freedom and set performance targets. The most important recent
change relates to IR's obligation to pay a dividend to GOI in years when its
earnings are insufficient to generate a net surplus. Prior to 1979 IR was
required to take interest bearing loans from GOI to pay dividend, but at
present, amount of dividend unpaid is carried forward as a deferred dividend
liability without interest. This change is sound and removes an unnecessary
financial burden placed on IR. Accordingly, accumulated interest on loans for
payment of dividends to March 31, 1978, was written off and the balance of
outstanding loans amounting to Rs 1,222 million was converted to a deferred
dividend liability.
5.04      In 1977, the Government convened a high level independent committee -
The Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee (RTEC) to review IR's freight rates, pas-
senger fares and IR's operational efficiency. The Committee issued its reports



-39-
in June 1980, and as part of its overall review, also covered areas of Govern-
ment policy and practices, made comparisons of IR's operations with both West-
ern Railways and those of the USSR and China. The report is of an excellent
standard and reflects a rigorous intellectual and professional examination of
IR's operations. It contains 386 recommendations and suggestions.
5.05      Key recommendations of RTEC include:  (a) IR be allowed to earn a
10% rate of return on investment and the excess over 6% due GOI as dividend
be used by IR for development purposes; (b) provision for repairs and main-
tenance in the past has been inadequate and IR should be allowed to catch up on
arrears and more funds from now on should be provided for this critical
activity; (c) funds for the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF) have been
under-provided and should be substantially increased based on IR's needs and an
expert group be appointed to recommend the appropriate methodology for calcula-
tion of depreciation; (d) tariff increases, rather than being assessed on "cost
plus" basis, should be related to efficiency. A formula is suggested which
uses 1976/77, being the most efficient year of railways operations, as a
yard-stick. Tariff fares would be increased annually by indexing the increase
to the change in prices of the major inputs of IR's costs, including labor,
fuel and steel; (e) tariff rates should be set to cover the total costs
attributable to that stream of traffic; cross subsidization, from freight to
passenger, should not be allowed; (f) cost of social burdens such as lines
built for strategic purposes, should be eliminated and IR be fully compensated
when a decision is made for IR to provide a service which it would not normally
do on commercial grounds; (g) other recommended reforms in operational, person-
nel, costing and marketing activities; and (h) IR's management structure and
promotion practices should be reviewed and changed to support a greater degree
of commercial freedom. The recommendations envisage financial reforms which
provide a framework within which IR would be able to operate more like a com-
mercial entity.
5.06      IR has already taken action on key RTEC recommendations, especially
in the area of finance. Consecutively for the three years 1980/81 - 1982/83
rates and fares have been adjusted upwards exceeding percentage targets recom-
mended by RTEC and resulting in estimated total additional revenues to IR of
Rs 1,040 million with about 70% accruing from freight and 30% from passenger
respectively. The number of commodities, which were exempted from various
supplementary charges has been drastically reduced. Consequently, losses on
these commodities are expected to decline from Rs 1,335 million in 1980/81 to
Rs 643 million in 1982/83. Passenger operations losses, while increasing in
quantum, are declining in percentage terms over previous years losses and in
percentage terms to total revenue. Season tickets in terms of single journey
tickets have been adjusted to levels recommended in the RTEC report. Details
of tariff adjustments are on project file. Appropriations to DRF have been
significantly stepped up to a more adequate level (see para. 5.16), and more
intensive use of costing techniques are being made by IR. These actions with
record traffic carried by IR in 1981/82 have meant that overall performance
level of 1976/77 has been met and is expected to surpass in 1982/83. The
result has been improvement in IR's ability to generate internally financial
resources necessary for capital and maintenance requirements. RTEC recommenda-
tions on organizational changes have wider implications and GOI has appointed a



-40-
Railway Reforms Committee in May 1981 to examine them in depth and to recommend
appropriate action to be taken by the Government. This Committee will also
examine IR's depreciation policy and is expected to issue its report in 1983.
RTEC recommendations are complex and would take time to implement. Accord-
ingly, during negotiations discussions were held on key RTEC recommendations
and assurances were obtained that the Bank Group will be informed on further
progress being made and on decisions taken by GOI/IR on implementation of key
RTEC recommendations.
C. Rates and Fares
5.07      GOI has, in the past, applied a tariff policy which has tended to
subsidize large segments of freight (essential basic commodities) and passenger
traffic (second class ordinary). Traffic costing is an integral part of tariff
formulation and continual refinements to the traffic costing techniques are
being made. No direct subsidies are involved, but GOI exempts IR from payment
of dividend in respect of the capital invested in strategic lines, unremunera-
tive branch lines and on construction of certain new lines. Most subsidies on
freight traffic are being eliminated, but passenger service is still sub-
sidized. Thus, cross-subsidization is in the main from freight to passenger
service. Some measures have been effected by IR towards the objective of
achieving fully distributed cost based tariff structure (para. 5.06).
D. Past Performance
5.08      IR's actual revenue and expenditure accounts for the period FY77 to
FY81 are summarized below and detailed in Table 14. The balance sheet as of
March 31, 1981 is shown in Table 15.



-41-
Account Head                         --------------------Actual-------------------
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
(in Current Rs Million)
Total Revenues                        20,361    21,234    21,510    23,378    26,240
Total Working Expenses                15,490    15,706    16,540    18,607    22,162
Appropriation to DRF a/                1,350      1,400     1,450      2,000      2,200
Appropriation to PF  a/                  350        393        678       817      1,003
Total Operating Expenses              17,190    17,499    18,668    21,424    25,365
Net Revenue from Operations            3,171      3,735     2,842      1,954        875
Net Miscellaneous Expenditure            208        207       234        241        399*
Net Revenues                           2,963      3,528     2,608      1,713      1,274
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge b/       2,091      2,266     2,241      2,375      3,252
Net Surplus (Deficit)                    872      1,262       367       (662)   (1,978)
Operating Ratio                        84.4%      82.4%     86.7%      91.6%      96.6%
Ratio of Net Operating Revenue
to Capital-at-Charge                  6.5%      7.4%       5.2%       4.1%       2.1%
a/ Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF); Pension Fund (PF)
b/ See Note 2 on Table 14
*   Credit figure
5.09      IR has earned revenues which are greater than its total operating
expenses, which include depreciation. However, IR has not always been able
to meet its full dividend liability. IR had its best results in FY78, gener-
ating a large surplus. The increase in revenues subsequent to FY78 was mainly
attributable to tariff increases.    The total working expenses, as a percent-
age of total revenues, increased from 76.1% in FY77 to 84.5% in FY81. Fuel as
a percentage of total working expenses increased from 18.6% in FY77 to 22.1% in
FY81, while other costs remained more or less at the same level (see Table 16).
Considerable increase in appropriation to DRF in FY81 was made over FY79; Rs
2,200 million compared to Rs 1,450 million respectively (an increase of over
50%).
5.10      For the reasons stated above and because the traffic carried fell
short of the forecast, IR was not able to pay the full dividend in FY80 and
FY81 as required by GOI policy and in agreement for Credit 844-IN. The basic
shortcoming in IR's financial arrangement is dependence on an annual decision
by GOI notably on the level of tariff (limitation of administrative prices) and
capital investments. This, however, is being looked into by the Government in
its consideration of the RTEC recommendations and by the Railway Reforms Com-
mittee (para. 5.06).
5.11      Historically, GOI has kept tariffs at levels much below the increases
in the cost of IR's inputs or changes in general price levels (Table 17). In
addition, IR has to absorb losses on such services as suburban and short dis-
tance travel, and unremunerative lines, etc. These are termed as "social
burden" costs by IR and during FY80 and FY81 were estimated at Rs 2,400 million
and Rs 4,200 million, respectively (about 10% and 16% of revenues, respec-
tively). Had IR been compensated for these costs, it would have generated a



-42-
large profit to cover the dividend payment for FY80 and FY81 and had a surplus
of about Rs 1,700 million and Rs 2,200 million, respectively.
E. Future Prospects
5.12       IR has prepared financial statement estimates for the period FY82
to FY87 based on its freight traffic forecasts which appear high, and without
provision for price increases and tariff changes. IR's financial statement
estimates show that for FY82 it would be able to cover its full dividend and
generate about Rs 500 million surplus. This is encouraging considering that IR
incurred losses in previous two years. For the subsequent period FY83 to FY87
IR estimates show that at present (April 1982) tariff rates, it would cover its
full dividend obligation but would partially cover its dividend obligations for
FY86 and FY87. IR contends that GOI policy of granting tariff increases in
advance of the forthcoming year will continue and hence IR will be provided
with sufficient annual tariff increases to cover all its obligations.
5.13       IDA forecasts have been made using the conservative traffic forecast
of 'Scenario II' (see paras. 2.34 and 2.35). IDA forecast for FY83 to FY87 at
tariff levels in effect at April 1, 1982, are summarized below and shown in
detail in Table 18. Balance sheets are shown in Table 19.
----------- ---Bank Group Forecast--------------
IR's Revised              (in Current Rs Million)
Estimate
Account Head                        1981-82    1982-83   1983-84    1984-85   1985-86   1986-87
Total Revenues                       35,418     41,120    42,039    42,952    43,953    44,923
Total Working-Expenses               27,146     30,100    30,620    31,149    31,687    32,234
Appropriatidn to DRF a/               3,500      5,000    5,000     5,300     6,500     6,800
Appropriation to PF  ai/                985      1,480     1,750    1,900     2,150     2,300
Total Operating Expenses            31,631     36,580    37,370    38,349   40,337    41,334
Net Revenues'from Operations          3,787      4,540    4,669    4,603      3,616     3,589
Net Miscellaneous Credits               433       400       450       500       205       311
Net Revenues                         4,220      4,940     5,119     5,103     3,821     3,900
Dividend on Capital-at-charge b/     3,702      4,051     4,290     4,430     4,660     5,010
Net Surplus (Deficit)                  518        889       829       673      (839)   (1,110)
Operating Ratio                      89.3%      88.9%     88.9%     89.2%     91.7%     92.0%
a! Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF); Pension Fund (PF).
b/ See Note 1 on Table 18.



-43-
5.14      Bank Group's revenue and expenditure account estimates for the period
FY83 to FY87 have been projected using prices, rates, fares and expenses at April
1982 levels. Conservative assumptions on improvements in operating efficiency
resulting from the proposed project have been included. The forecasts do not
include any provision for increase in tariffs, changes in the financial
policies of GOI, or allowances for inflation. On these assumptions and using
"Scenario II" traffic level, the above table indicates that tariff increases
would need to be raised for FY86 and FY87 to generate revenues high enough to
meet full dividend payment--and meet the covenant of the existing and proposed
Bank Group projects. During negotiations, it was agreed that GOI would main-
tain passenger fares and freight rates and take all other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate, so as to provide to the Railways net revenue suffi-
cient to enable the Railways to meet out of internally generated resources all
operating expenses (including depreciation) and dividend payments on Capi-
tal-at-Charge.
5.15      By FY87 revenues are projected to increase by about 26.9% over FY82
as a result of tariff increases granted April 1, 1982 and traffic increases.
Total working expenses are expected to increase by about 18.7% because of the
high proportion of variable costs. Total operating expenses are expected to
register a higher increase (about 30.7%) mainly because of increased alloca-
tions to depreciation (DRF). The likely levels of annual tariff revenue
increases needed to pay full dividend with traffic at Scenario II levels for
the period FY83 to FY87 have been estimated as follows:
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
(i) Without allowance for inflation         -       -      -      2%      1%
(ii) With inflation at 10% per annum         5%      8%     9%    13%    11%
5.16      The DRF in IR is in effect a renewal and replacement fund and not
a depreciation provision in the normal accounting sense.  Over the years,
contribution of funds to DRF has proved to be insufficient to take care of
need-based replacements as it has been determined on an annual, almost ad-hoc
basis, depending on IR's financial situation, physical constraints in the form
of productive capacity in the country (e.g., how many wagons can be manufac-
tured) and the complexities in ascertaining the exact timing of replacements.
This has led to a situation where IR is burdened with a high percentage of
overaged and obsolete assets which are a restraint on capacity and produce high
costs. In the recent past DRF annual allocation has averaged 2.7% of the fixed
assets (see Table 15, page 2, item 1). Experience elsewhere suggests that a
contribution of about 5% of fixed assets would be more appropriate and a rate
of this order should be provided on a regular annual basis and not be allowed
to fluctuate-because of other constraints. This would give some semblance of
"true depreciation".  The increased allocation would permit more rapid replace-
ment of old and obsolete assets, which would in turn improve operational
efficiency (increase revenue) and would result in reduction of maintenance
costs, which now constitute about 40% of working expenses. The DRF allocations
proposed by IR for FY83 to FY87 (and used in Table in para. 5.13) represents a
5% contribution which is acceptable. During negotiations it was agreed that
appropriations to the DRF of the Railways shall be not less than Rs 21,000
million in aggregate as provided in the Sixth Five-Year Plan of India for the
period from April 1, 1980 to March 31, 1985. Of the total amount (Rs 21,000



-44-
million) of the Plan, Rs 10,700 has already been appropriated to DRF of IR
during the period 1980/81 - 1982/83 and the balance of Rs 10,300 million is to
be appropriated during remaining two years (1983/84 and 1984/85) of the Plan
period.
5.17      A sensitivity analysis using the alternative traffic forecasts
Scenario I and III and at current tariff levels indicates that IR would be able
to cover all of its operating expenses, but would not be able to fully meet its
dividend obligation in latter years FY86 and FY87.
F. Financing Plan
5.18      Table 20 shows the Source and Application of Funds for the five-year
period FY83 to FY87, in which the proceeds of the proposed credit will be
utilized, the funds required by IR and the anticipated source of such funds are
summarized as follows:
Rs Million   US$ Million    %
Required Funds
A. For Investment Program:
Capital Expenditure                          60,315         6,701       98
Inventories                                   1,418           158        2
61,733         6,859      100
B. For Other Purposes
Dividend Paid                                20,492         2,277       95
Repayment of Temporary Loans                    200            22        1
Interest on Temporary Loans                     784            87        4
21,476         2,386      100
Required Funds - Total                       83,209         9,245
Sources of Funds:
A. For Investment Program:
IR Internal Cash Generation                  33,215         3,690       53
Government Funds a/                          26,750         2,972       44
Government Temporary Loans b/                 1,768           197        3
61,733         6,859      100
B. For Other Purposes:
IR Internal Cash Generation
for Dividend                                20,492         2,277       95
IR Internal Cash Generation for other            984           109        5
21,476         2,386      100
Sources of Funds - Total                      83,209         9,245
a/ Of which the proposed Bank Group would finance Rs 3,600 million
(US$400 million equivalent for this proposed project).
b/ To finance Development Fund (DF) requirements.



-45-
5.19    It is estimated that IR would be able to finance over 50% of its total
investment requirements out of internally generated funds. The balance to be
provided by the Government results in an increase in the Capital-at-Charge.
Forecast financial statements have been prepared on the basis of IR's prelimi-
nary estimates of planned investment for the period FY83 to FY87.
G. Financial Aspects of Diesel Components Works
5.20      The DCW is estimated to cost about Rs 1,072.8 million, including
taxes and contingencies, with an additional amount of Rs 12.6 million for
technical assistance, making a total of Rs 1,085.4 million.  The amount
required for construction will be included in the railway budget presented
annually to the Parliament. The funds provided by GOI for the workshop will be
added to the Capital-at-Charge of IR.
5.21      Estimates of the operating costs for the workshop have been calcu-
lated with costs developed from IR's experience in remanufacturing some of the
components in the Zonal Workshops and in manufacturing components at their
electric and diesel locomotive plants at Chittaranjan and Varanasi respec-
tively. These estimates are reasonable. Transfer prices for parts and assem-
blies delivered to the Zonal Railways will be set to recover all the operating
costs of the workshop including overheads and depreciation.
5.22      IR has developed a new Management Information System (MIS) for
production units which includes a cost accounting system. A team has been
established at the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) at Perambur to develop the
System which will be introduced and tested there and then installed at the
Diesel Loco Works at Varanasi (DLW) and Chittaranjan (CLW) and the Wheel and
Axle plant under construction at Yelahanka, which is being financed under the
ongoing Credit 844-IN. The design of the system has been reviewed and it would
be appropriate, with small modifications, for use at the DCW.  This will
provide an effective costing system for determining transfer prices and cost
control. During negotiations assurances were obtained that concurrently with
the start of operations of the DCW in 1985, an adequate management information
system will be installed therein.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During the negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI on the
following principal matters:
(a)   IR will maintain and expand the unit exchange component pool
as required by its maintenance needs (para. 3.24);
(b)   IR will ensure that production and remanufacture of parts
and components as a portion of gross rated annual capacity
of DCW will be at least 40% in 1984/85, 70% in 1986/87
and no less than 90% thereafter (para. 3.44);



(c)   IR will ensure that at all times DCW is adequately staffed
with competent managerial, supervisory and technical personnel
and that any changes in managerial staff will not be detri-
mental to plant operation (para. 3.45);
(d)   GOI will ensure that when the lowest evaluated bidder is a
foreign manufacturer, permission to import will be forthcoming
immediately and no further review by any agency of the Government
will be made (para. 3.49);
(e)   GOI will maintain passenger fares and freight rates and shall
take all other actions as may be necessary or appropriate so
as to provide to the Railways net revenue sufficient to enable
the Railways to meet out of internally generated resources all
operating expenses and dividend on Capital-at-Charge (para. 5.14);
(f)   Appropriations to the DRF will be not less than Rs 10,300
million in the aggregate for FY84 and FY85 (para. 5.16); and
6.02      Subject to agreements reached on the foregoing, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan/IDA Credit of US$400 million equiv-
alent.



IND IA
RAILWAY MO)EE1NIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
(Units)
1 to5 ys.       to10  rs.  11to 15 yrs  16 to 20  r. 2   t   5ys   26 to 30 yrs.  31 to 35 yrs.  Aboe   5  rs                            TTA
Diesel Locomotives
(Main Line)
Broad Gauge                      407            337               297             361             96                   ---1,498
Metre Gauge                       63            135                89             148              -                                    -*-435
Narrow Gauge                      20               2               10              25             10                   -               -                   -.                  67
Diesel Shunters
Broad Gauge                       122           139                64               7                                29                2                 10                   373
Metre Gauge                        -              2                -                -              7                 13                7                   1                   3
Electric -Locomotives
Broad Gauge                       312           263               161            203              66                  ---1,031
Metre Gauge                        -                                2              18                                 -                -20
Rail Cars
Broad Gauge                        -                               --                            21                   -                1                  -                   22
Metre Gauge                        -               5                4               2              8                  6                2                  3                   3
Narrow Gauge                                                        4                                                                  4                 10                   18
EMU (Motor Coaches)
Broad Gauge                       190           202               120             125            61                 20                --                                     718
Metre Gauge                        -                               20              25             -                   -               -                   -                   45
EMU (.Trailers)
Broad Gauge                       200           390               412            321             67                 60                1                  -                1,451
Metre Gauge                        303                              02                            410                                 -                  -                   147
Coaches
Broad Gauge                     3,'610        4,008             3,644          3,724         3,856              1,496              368                 980               21,686
Metre Gauge                       899         1,392             1,867          2,544         2,462               1,224              154                703               11,245
Narrow Gauge                       86            98                70            285            188                105                9                703                1,544
Steam Locomotives
Broad Gauge                        2663270                                                   133742                                774                 595                4,288
Metre Gauge                     *20 1 21         41               28.7           326           930                 503             357                 298                2,763
Narrow Gauge      -              - ~~~~~-                  -                    18                 93               14                217                  342
Freight_Wagons
Broad Gauge                   44,248.5      49,300.5          66,811.5       115,306       69,848.5             31,613.5            20,733        27,031               424,891.5
Metre Gauge                     8,022         4,027            18,1.2 3       20,112       28,794               23,510                1,345        11,261              115,194
Narrow Gauge                      868           228                 -          1,356   .       94~9                 864                   2         4,325                8,386
Source: IR
September 1982



-48-
Table 2
INDIA                                           Page 1 of 2
RAIlW9AY N50ERNIZATION Ai0 MAhITENANUE  PROJECT 11
-------'----=------=-------- ---=-BROAD GAUG9e      -- --E--------
19t13'74    976/75   IJ176  19411   i977W78  1918/7   1979/80  19bpj81  1981/62 U
1.  Pertentege of  erviteable
lotsffotivei (2) 3/
- tream                                844i1    84.39    85.63    86.61    95.48    84.77  h4.52    83.6                 83.5
=  Direel                           84.44      82.26    42.93    82.92    93.15    85.52    h5.hl    e5.8            83.3
Eltetrit - Total 4/                 80.78      78.77    79.95    79.40    N.A.         N.A.      84.1h    83.8       79.1
- AC    4/                 N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.    42.78    83.h5    85.20    45.0          80.6
- DC    4/                 N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.    73.53      74.56    77.60    75.9         71.9
2.  Percentage of serniceable
passenger vehicles (X)                 86.55      84.02    84.29    87.26    86.59    86.56    86.10    85.5             85.4
3.  Percentage of servicahbl
Wagons                                  95.64      95.52    95.59    96.4l    96.02    95.46    95.57    94.6            93.3
4.  Engine - Km per day per
engine in use (K.)
- Passenger
-  St-                                238        236       234       233       224       228        215       210      209
-  Diesel                             694        652       641       721       735       624        630      610       683
-  Electric                           408        408       450       697       636       459       452       453        506
- Freight
-  St.oe                              104         112       114       114      111       100         94        89        88
-  Diesel                             307         306       321      379        353      317       307       300        370
-  Electric - Total                   372         296      331        445      N.A.      N.A.       249       274       339
- AC                     N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N1.A.     41U       322       300       283       339
- DO                     N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       37       171       175       160       169
5.  Erons trailing load per
freight train (ton)                      1,529      1,563   1,577       1,607    1,638    1,648      1,694     1,721     1,798
6. Not Tonnage per freight
train (ton)                                745        778      782        796      618       826       h63       884       932
7.  Wagon - km per day per
wsgen In use  (kh)                        67.2       70.3    76.4        41.1    81.9       75.9      73.3      73.4      43.4
8.  Net too ko per wagon per day               837        907      982      1,019    1,045       976       972       896    1,130
9. Gross ton kh per freight-train
hoer                                    2n0.1      26,756  27,663    30,222  3U,238   30,366   31,168   31,850   34,075
10. Net ton kh per freight-treio
hour                                    13,966    14,599  15,018    16,292  16,444   16,541   17,171    17,677    19,664
11. Percentage of pansengor trains
.rrioing  on time (%)                    79.47       82.1    46.5        93.2    91.3       43.3      86.0      84.3      45.4
12.  Average wagon load (ton)                 17.9        18.5    16.9        18.9    19.0       18.9      19.1      21.2      21.6
13, Locomotive otili-ation (1) 5/
-  Stes=                            47.9        46.7    48.3         45.8    47.9      45.8      45.0      47.1      43.3
-  Diesel                           75.0        76.7    80.0        80.2    79.2       76.7      76.7      73.3      75.0
-  Electric - Total                 67.5        72.1    76.3        79.4t    80.4      76.3      72.9      70.0      80.4
-  All Ttraction                    53.8        54.2    56.7         55.4    57.9      56.3      55.8      57.1      56.7
14. Average spend of all freight
trains (koph)
-St.eam                             11.         12.0    11.8         11.9    11.5      11.2      10.4      10.2        9.59
-  Ditesl                           22.2        22.1    22.1         23.1    22.5      21.5       21.3      21.3     22.4
-Electric - Total                   22.5        22.4    23.5         25.2    N.A.      N.A.      23.5      22.8      23.1
- AC                  N.A.        N.A.    N.A.        N.A.    25.0       24.2       23.4     23.0       23.4
- El                   N.A.        N.A.    N.A.        N.A.    20.6       19.3      18.7      18.0      17.4
-  All Traction                     18.3         14.4    18.8       20.1    19.7       19.6      19.5      19.7      20.8
15.  AveraSe apeed of thro-gh
freight trains (kmph)
-  Steam                            15.6         15.8    15.9        16.8    16.3       15.8      15.2      15.0      14.9
-  Diesel                           22.4        22.3    22.3         23.     23.3      21.9      21.4       21.5     22.7
-  Electric - Total                 22.6         22.5    23.7        25.4    N.A.      N.A.       23.6      23.U      23.4
- AC                   N.A.        N.A.    N.A5,       1.       25.1      24.3      23,9      23.2      23.7
-DC                    N.A.        N.A.    N.A.        N.A.    21.0       19.6      16.9      18.6      17.2
-  All Traction                     21.1        21.0    Z1.6         23.2    22.5      22.1       21.7      21.7      22.7
16. Average lead of a totl ot
frcight (km)                              630         451      636        626      659       643       691       694        -
17.  Wagon turnaround (days)                  15.0        14.6    13,5        13.0    13.3       14.3      15.1       15.4     13.3
NOT9 Ei  Undarscored figures represnt the beet perfe=rmnre
during Iha mIne yetr period.
1/  Wagons are baaed on rtandard 4-whesl squivlsint,
22 tone for 90 god 14=6 tong for MO.
2/ Provisional figuree, bAsed on oparating docuente
for tha first 11 month".
3/ 3eginning in 1978/79 the method of calculating
evailability has been chang.4, thus the otatisEins
are not comparable to the past. More importantly,
percent av-ilebility doas not reflect actual
reliAbility and effectiveness of the locomotives.
4/ Uetll 1976/77 eIectric locomotive performance
statistics were compiled for the entire locomotive
fleet. Beeinoing in 1977/78, they have been aeparated
into AC and DC typo of locometivee to show their comparative merits.
5/ Nu-bero of hours engine available and worked per day.
Source:  IR
September 1982



-49-
INDIA                                       Table 2
Page 2 of 2
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Summary of Operating Statistics I/
---------------------------------METRE GAUGE---------------------------------
1973/74    1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1980/81  1981/82  2/
1. Percentage of serviceable
locomotives (%) 3/
-  Steam                                85.28      85.28      84.45     86.37      86.42     85.88     65.83      83.8      83.2
-  Diesel                               87.71      86.55    88.33       88.5b    87.82    87.25        88.57      87.9      84.3
-  Electric                             88.45      87.90    85.00    85.00    80.00          80.00     84.30      85.1      84.8
2. Percentage of serviceable
passenger vehicles (%)                  88.48      87.13    68.45       89.59      89.80    89.50      88.48      87.2      88.5
3. Percentage of servicable
wagons                                  94.98      94.81      95.65     96.05      96.09     95.86      95.27     94.1      92.9
4. Engine - Km per day per
engine in use (K.)
-  Passenger
-  Steam                              214        205        215       215       215        206       200        200       180
-  Diesel                             561        556        533       578       561        574       550        541       568
-  Electric                           375        361       401        439       431        419       411        405       40
-  Freight
-  Steam                              118        117        120       126        123       115       113        107       109
-  Diesel                             259        272        286       344       305        285       277        277       334
-  Electric                           248        232        225       242       211        211       207        206       215
5.  Gross trailing load per
freight train (ton)                      785         800       800       785        800       835       849        871       891
6. Net Tonnage per freight
train (ton)                              408         422       413       413        423       451       467        4b7       504
7. Wagon - km per day per
wagon in use (ki)                       50.9        53.7      56.4      58.1       57.5      52.7      49.7       47.3      47.8
8.  Net ton km per wagon per day              482        528        545       570       570        543       534        522       534
9. Gross ton km per freight-train
hour                                  11,336     11,300    11,109   11,097   11,164   11,495    11,7nO    12,235   13,445
10. Net ton km per fre-ght-tra-s
hour                                   6,616      6,669    6,423       6,556    6,618    6,915        7,115      7,562    8,415
11. Percentage of passenger trains
arriving on time (%)                    84.44      85.61      88.7      94.1       92.3      91.7       85.3      85.9      88.3
12.  Average wagon load (ton)                12.7        13.2      13.3       13.6      13.7       13.8      14.1       15.1      15.5
13.  Locomotive utilization  (2) 4/
-  Steam                           38.6        35.6      41.7       41.3      40.8       38.0      36.9      36.3       34.7
-  Diesel                          66.3        68.8      74.2       74.6      72.9       72.1      70.8      72.1       76.3
-  Electric                        47.5        45.0      53.3       58.3      61.7       59.2      55.8      56.3       53.3
-  All Traction                    41.6        39.4      45.4       45.4      45.0      42.5       41.5      41.5       41.2
14. Average speed of all freight
trains (kmph)
-  Steam                            12.9       12.5      12.1       12.2      11.9       11.4      11.2       10.6      10.9
-  Diesel                          19.0        18.7      18.5       19.1      18.8       18.4      18.3      18.4       18.7
-  Electric                         21.3       22.5      20.0       19.4      16.8       17.1      18.0       16.8      17.8
-  All Traction                     15.5       15.2      14.9       15.2      15.0       14.8      14.8      15.1       16.1
15.  Average speed of through
freight trains (kmph)
-  Steam                           15.5        14.4      14.1       14.1      13.7       12.7      12.1      11.3       11.3
-  Diesel                          19.3        19.0      18.8       19.2      19.0       18.6      18.5      19.5       19.1
-  Electric                         21.3       22.5      20.0       19.4      16.8       17.1      18.0       16.8      17.8
-  All Tractoon                     18.1       T7.6      17.3       17.6      17.4       16.9      16.7       16.2      17.9
16. Average lead of a ton of
freight (ki)                             462         512       499       458        473       507        521       536         -
17.  Wagon turnaround (days)                  12.5       12.0       11.6      11.1      11.5       12.o      14.1       15.2      14.1
NOTES:  Underscored figures represent the best performac.ce
during the nine year period.
I/  Wagons are based on standard 4-wheel equivalent, 22 tons
for BG and 14-6 tons for MG.
2/  Provisional figures, based on operating documents for the
first 11 months.
3/  Beginning in 1978/79 the method of calculating availability
has been changed, thus the statistics are not comparable to
the past. More importantly, percent availability does nut
reflect actual reliability and effectiveness of the locomotives.
4/ Number of hours engine available and worked per day.
Source: IR
September 1982



-50-
INDLA                                         Table 3
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Freight and Passenger Traffic
Freight Traffic                                                  Passenger Traffic
Non-Suburban Traffic                      Suburban Traffic a/
Originating    Total Ton-    Average           Passengers   Passenger-    Average         Passengers    Passenger    Average
Tonnage      Kilometres      Lead           Originating   Kilometres       Lead       Originating   Kilometres       Lead
Year        million tons    million       Kilometres         million        million    Kilometres      million        million    Kilometres
-1950/51        93.0           44,117        474                867         59,914         69.1           417           6,603        15.8
1955/56       115.9           59,576         514                776         54,235        69.9           499           8,165         16.4
1960/151      156.2           87,680         561                909         65,847         72.4          685          11,818         17.3
1965/166      203.0          116,936         576              1,057         79,059         74.8        1,025          17,235         16.8
1966/67       201.6          116,607         578              r,111         83,676         75.3        1,081          18,469         17.1
1967/68       196.6          118,860         605              1,153         88,188         76.5        1,104          18,975         17.2
1968/1i9      204.0          125,140         615              1,129         87,425         77.4        1,084          19,515         18.0
1969/70       207.9          127,248         617              1,180         91,219        77.3         1,158          22,163         19.1
1970/71       196.5          127,358         648              1,204         95,068         79.0        1,227          23,052         18.8
1971/;72      197.8          133,265         674              1,261        101,079        80.2         1,275          24,250         19.0
1972/73       201.3          136,531         678              1,268        106,931        84.3         1,385          26,596         19.2
1973/;74      184.9          122,354         662              1,217        107,627        88.5         1,437          28,037         19.5
1974/75       196.7          134,304         683              1,056         99,097         93.8        1,373          27,157         19.8
1975/76       223.3          148,219         664              1,306        115,899        88.7         1,639          32,862         20.1
1976/77       239.1          156,756         656              1,498        126,754        84.6         1,802          37,082         20.b
1977/78       237.3          162,687         686              1,575        137,201        87.1         1,928          39,433         20.4
1978/79       223.4          154,824         693              1,606        149,506         93.1        2,113          43,439         20.6
1979/80       217.8          155,995         717              1,602        159,913        99.8         1,903          38,730         20.4
1980/131      220.0          158,474         720              1,612        167,472        103.9        2,000          41,086         20.5
1981/132 b/    244.7         173,918         711              1,720        183,352        106.6        2,100          43,890         20.9
Average Annual Growth Rates
1960/b1 over
1950/51         5.3            7.1           1.7                0.5            1.0          0.5           5.1           6.0           0.9
1970/71 over
1960/61         2.3            3.8           1.5                2.8            3.7          0.9          6.0            6.9           0.9
1980/131 over
1950/51         2.9            4.3           1.4                2.0            3.3          1.3          5.4            6.2           0.8
1980/131 over
1970/71         1.1            2.1           1.1                2.5            5.3          2.6          5.0            5.8           0.8
1980/131 over
1977/78        -2.7           -1.1           1.6               -0'.5           5.1          3.3           1.2           1.0          -0.2
1981/132 over
1950/31         3.0            4.5           1.6                3.2            6.6          1.8         13.0           18.2           1.0
1981/132 over
1970/71         2.2            3.3           0.9                3.9            8.4          3.2          6.5            8.2           1.0
1981/132 over
1977/78         0.8            1.7           0.9                2.3            8.4          5.6          2.2            2.8           0.6
a/ Patssengers booked between stations within the metropolitan
areas of Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Secunderabad up to
1970-71. From 1971-72 onwards, these figures exclude Secunderabad.
b/ Provisional figures.
Source: Ministry of Railways
Saptrnber 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Freight Traffic by Major Commodities
1969/70 - 1981/82
Traffic Category              1969/70              1975/76              1976/77            1977/78             1978/79              1979/80                1980/81                 1981/82--
T          TK(      T         TKt       T         TK         T         TK   TK              K        T           TK         T           TK           T          TK
Steel Plants                23.6       8,707   27.7      11,746    33.0    14,521        31.2     14,074    29.8      13,525    27.9        12,545      27.7       12,810      32.64       15,167
Coal                        53.0      31,026   64.3    37,654    67.4    38,756    69.1    40,552    64.1    36,318    62.0                 35,340       64.1      36,373       75.80      43,761
Iron Ore for Export          8.8       5,276   11.3       7,171      10.0     6,408      10.6      7,057    10.3       6,871       9.3       6,188       11.1       7,293       11.18       6,517
Cement                      10.7       6,265   11.6       8,627      13.7      9,170     13.6      9,200    12.3       8,911      10.0       7,442        9.6       7,189       10.79       8,072
Foodgrains                  15.1      13,400   16.2      15,479    20.0    18,757        19.5    22,962      16.7    20,522.    18.4        23,474       18.3      24,308       21.51      28,111
Fertilizers                  4.6       3,760    7.2       6,158       7.8      7,225      5.2      8,135      8.6      8,901       8.2       9,240        8.1       8,922        9.56       9,665
Petroleum Products           8.8       4,958   11.7       7,051      12.4      7,552     13.1      8,238    14.3       9,988      14.3      10,397       14.9      11,660       16.55      11,888
Other Goods                 49.2      37,443   46.8    40,988    48.3    41,641          45.5    40,032    43.5    38,834    43.0           39,933       42.1      39,097       43.16      41,052
Total Revenue Traffic   173.3   110,826   196.8   134,874   212.6   144,030   210.8   150,250   199.6   143,870   193.1                    144,559      195.9     147,652    221.19       164,233
N6n-Revenue Traffic         34.1     16,422    26.5      13,345    26.5    12,726    26.5    12,437    23.8    10,954    24.7               11,436       24.1      10,822       23.62       9,685
Total ALL Traffic          207.9   127,248   223.3   148,219   239.1   156,756   237.3   162,687   223.4   154,524   217.8                 155,995    220.0       158,474      244.81     173,918
Notes:    T = Metric tons (millions); TK = Metric Ton Kilometers (millions).
1/        Provisional
Source:__ Indian Railways Year Books and TR estimates.
September 1982



INDIA
RAILW4AY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT TI
Freight Traffic Forecasts by Major Commodities
1984/85 - 1990/91
1981/821/                         1984/85                                            1990/91
Scenario I    Scenario II        Scenario III    Scenario I         Scenario II       Scenario III
Traffic Category         T        TK        T      TK       T        TK      T        TK       T        TK      T        TK       T       TK
Steel Plants            32.6    15.2    35.8    16.5    36.1    10.8    37.7    17.5    40.4    18.5    41.8    19.6    45.2    20.5
Coal                    75.8    43.8    85.5    49.4    90.3    52.1    97.6    56.4   108.8    62.9   128.1    74.0   150.6    87.0
Iron Ore for Export    11.2       6.5    11.5       7.5    11.6      7.6    11.7      7.6    11.8       7.7    11.9      7.8    12.1       7.9
Cement                  10.8      8.1    10.7      8.8    11.1       9.1    12.1      9.9    10.6    10.5    11.7    11.6    13.9    13.7
Foodgrains              21.5    28.1    22.8    29.8    23.0    30.0    23.1    30.2    25.7    33.5    26.2    34.3    26.8    35.1
Fertilizers              9.6      9.7      9.6    10.7      9.7    10.9    10.0    11.3    11.1    12.5    12.4    14.0    14.2    16.0
Petroleum Products      16.5    11.9    17.1    11.5    17.8    12.1    18.7    12.6    18.3    12.4    19.4    14.3    26.3    19.4
Other Goods             43.2    41.1    40.3    40.4    40.5    40.7    40.6    40.8    34.6    42.2    35.7    44.2    35.7    46.2
Total Revenue
Traffic               221.2   164.4   233.3   174.7   240.1   179.3   251.5   186.3   261.3   200.2   287.2   219.8   324.8   245.8
Non-Revenue
Traffic                23.5      9.7    24.0    11.5    24.0    11.5    24.0    11.5    25.0    12.0    25.0    12.0    25.0    12.0
Total All Traffic      244.7   174.1   257.3   186.2   264.1   190.8   275.5   197.8   286.3   212.2   312.2   231.8   349.8   257.8
D
Notes:  T = Metric Tons (millions);  TK = Metric Ton Kilometers (billions)
The assumptions on which each scenario is based are explained in Annex C
1/ Provisional
Source: IR estimates, modified by the Bank Group Mission
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT TI
IR's Investment Program 1980/81-1984/85
(Rs Million)
l'otal
Category                                      1980/81    1981/82    ]982/83    1984/84    1984/85    1980/R1-1984f85
1.  Rolling Stock                              3,400      3,500       4,700       4,700       4,700          21,000
2.  Traffic Facilities                         1,150      1,650         680         660         660           4,800
3.  Track Renewals                               700      1,200       1,050       1,030       1,020           5,000
4.  Electrification                              220         400      1,300       1,290       1,290           4,500
5.  Macliinery and Plant                         170         250        580         580         570           2,1.50
6.  Workshops and Sheds                          380         850        580         570         570           2,950
7.  Spare Parts                                   80         200         40          40          40             400
8.  Signalling and Telecommunications            200         250        150         150         150              900
9.  New Lines                                    410        450         980         980         980           3,800
10.  Other Civil and Electrical Works             200         210        230         230         230           1,100
11.  Other Investment                             220         260         300         300        270           1,350
Subtotal                            7,130       9,220      10,590     10,530      10,460           47,950
12.  Mtetropolitan Transport Projects             250         500        600         600         600           2,550
13.  Investment in Road Services                  220          80          70          70         60              500
Subtotal                              470         580         670         670         660           3,050
CRAND TOTAL                         7,600       9,800      11,260      11,200      11,140          51,000
1/ Tle Investment Program was prepared on the basis of January 1981 prlces.
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



-54-                         Table 7
INDIA
SAILWAY MODERSIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Diesel Component Works (DCW)
Summary of Financial Cost Estimates
--------- Rs Million ------US$ Million------
Taxes
and
Facility                                 Local   Duties   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
1.   Component Overhaul Shops
Engine Shop                         4.8      4.7       15.9       25.4        1.05      1.77      2.82
Auxillary Shop                      0.5      0.7        2.0         3.2       0.13      0.22      0.35
Air Brake Shop                       5.2     3.3       11.1        19.6       0.96      1.23      2.19
Traction Motor Shop                 6.4      4.9       16.1       27.4        1.25      1.79      3.04
Engine Block Shop                   2.8      2.7        9.5        15.0       0.62      1.05      1.67
Liner Chrome Plating Shop           1.6      1.4        4.7         7.7       0.33      0.52     0.85
Crank Shaft, Camshaft
Remanufacturing Shop              6.2      5.2       17.2       28.6       1.27      1.91      3.18
Subtotal                        27.5    22.9        76.5      126.9       5.61      8.49    14.10
2.   Component Manufacturing Shops
Machine Shop                       18.2    40.9       137.2      196.3        6.57    15.24    21.81
Heat Treatment Shop                 2.9      3.4       11.8       18.1       0.70       1.31     2.01
Rubber Component Shop               0.6      0.8        2.5        3.9        0.15      0.28      0.43
Subtotal                        21.7    45.1       151.5      218.3       7.42    16.83    24.25
3.   Locomotive Remanufacturing
Shops
Locomotive Stripping and
Cleaning Shop                     2.8      3.6       12.0       18.4       0.71      1.33      2.04
Locomotive Erecting Shop            9.5      4.5       14.7       28.7        1.56      1.63      3.19
Bogi and Wheel Shop                 8.9      5.5       18.4       32.8        1.60     2.04       3.64
Subtotal                        21.2    13.6        45.1       79.9       3.87      5.00      8.87
4.   Service Shops
Plant Maintenance & Tool Room    4.0         3.3       10.4       17.7       0.81       1.16      1.97
Laboratory                          0.4      0.3         1.1        1.8       0-.08     0.12      0.20
Inspection Equipment                0.1      1.6        4.3        6.0       0.16      0.51      0.67
Miscellaneous (Material
Handling, etc.)                   5.1      5.0       16.7       26.8       1.12      1.86      2.98
Subtotal                         9.6    10.2        32.5       52.3       2.17      3.65      5.82
S.   Construction and Start-Up
Civil and Electrical              200.0      0.0        0.0      200.0      22.22      0.0      22.22
Project Implementation             11.5      0.0        4.0       15.5        1.28     0.44       1.72
Technical Assistance                 1.4     0.0        3.9         5.3      0.16      0.43      0.59
Training                            2.8      0.0        4.5         7.3      0.31       0.50      0.81
Initial Raw Material and
Working Capital                  57.5    25.0        82.3      164.8       9.1       9.14    18.24
Subtotal                       273.2    25.0        94.7      392.9      33.07    10.51    43.58
Base Cost Estimate             353.2   116.8       400.3      870.3      52.14    44.48    96.62
6.   Physical Contingencies
Machinery                            5.9     5.6       18.7        30.2       1.28       2.08    3.36
Construction Start Up              20.8      1.7         6.3      28.8        2.50       0.70    3.20
7.   Price Contingencies                 51.4    24.1        80.7      156.2       8.39       8.97   17.36
Total Project Cost 1/             431.3   148.2       506.0       L085.5     64.31      56.23  120.54
Notes: Totals may not agree due to rounding errors.
1/ Includes technical assitance and training
which is shown as a separate item in para. 3.38.
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



IND IA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENAiICE PROJECT II
Diesel Component Works (DCW)
Investment Schedule
(Rs Million)
--  ---- 1982/83------/- ----------1983/84                 __    _     _        1984/85-      ---------            1985/86---------    -----------1986/87
Custom                            Custom                             Custom                             Custom                              Custom
Work Item                    Local  Duties  Foreign  Total  Local  Duties  Foreign  Total   Local  Duties  Foreign  Total   Local  Duties  Foreign  Total   Local  Duties  Foreign  Total
Machinery & Plant             8.8      -        -        8.8   20.0    25.6    85.6   131.2    28.0    43.8    143.6  215.4    13.6    23.7              76.4  113.7       9.6      -         -      9.6
Civil & Electrical Works   42.0        -        -      42.0   52.0        -        -      52.0    56.0       -         -    56.0    26.0         -         -    26.0    24.0        -         -    24.0
Implementation, Training
& Technical Assistance    2.4        -        -        2.4    2.8       -       3.1      5.9     3.1       -        3.1    6.2       4.2      -        3.1    7.3       3.2       -        3.1    6.3
Initial Raw Material &
Working Capital              -       -        -         -      -        -        -       _       8.6      6.0      20.5   35.1    20.1        8.5      28.8   57.4    29.4    10.5        33.0   72.9
Subtotal                 53.2     -        -       53.2   74.8    25.6    88.7   189.1    95.7    49.8    167.2  312.7    63.9    32.2    108.3  204.4    66.2    10.5                  36.1  112.8
Physical Contingencies
Machinery                     0.6      -        -        0.6    1.5      1.5      5.2      8.2     2.1      2.7       9.0   13.8       1.1      1.4       4.5    7.0      0.6       -         -      0.6
Construction & Start up       3.7      -        -        3.7    4.6       -       0.6      5.2     5.0      0.4       1.6    7.0       3.7      0.6      2.0    6.3       3.8      0.7       2.1    6.6
Subtotal                  4.3      _       _        4.3    6.1       1.5      5.8    13.4      7.1      3.1      10.6   20.8      4.8       2.0      6.5   13.3       4.4      0.7       2.1     7.2
Price Contingencies 1/
Foreign Costs                  -       --                        -        -      10.5    10.5       -        -       32.2   32.2        -        -      27.4   27.4        -        -       10.6   10.6
Local Costs                   1.5      -        -        1.5    7.7      3.1       -      10.8    14.4    10.1         -    24.5    13.4        8.4        -    21.8    14.4       2.5        -    16.9
Subtotal                   1.5      -        -        1.5    7.7      3.1    10.5    21.3    14.4    10.1         32.2   56.7    13.4        8.4     27.4   49.2    14.4        2.5      10.6   27.5
TOTAL                    59.0      -      3.5      59.0   88.6    30.2   105.0   223.8   117.2    63.0    210.0  390.2    82.1    42.6    142.2  266.9    85.0    13.7                  48.8  147.5
Notes: Price Estimates as of May 1982
1/  Custom Duties are inflated at foreign rates
Source: IR and Mission
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Indigenous Production and Imports of Wheels
Tyres and Axles 1963/64-1981/82
Indigenous Production of                                                                                              Total 2/
DSP and TISCO   _                         Import      _                DSP and TISCO Import             Wheels/Tyres and Axles
Wheels!                 eel         Wheels WWheee                          Wheels!                 Wheel         Wheels/
Year          Tyres     Axles       Sets 1/       Tyres       Axles       Sets 1/        Tyres      Axles        Sets 1/       Tyres      Axlus
1963/64     42,890    10,786       18,523        27,633      11,604       3,084        7U,523      22,390      21,607         113,737    43,997
1964/65     48,603    13,621       22,415              0           0      9,872        48,603      13,621      32,287         113,177    45,908
1965/66     43,758    12,579       23,407        22,995       4,371      32,658        66,753      16,950      56,065         178,883    73,015
1966/67     43,850    11,360       15,143         2,253            0      2,542        46,103      11,360       17,685         81,873    29,045
1967/68     42,854      9,962      14,879        40,779      14,417      14,025        83,633      23,379      28,904         141,441    52,283
1968/69     36,673    10,318        9,895        43,516       1,907          164       80,189       12,225      10,059        100,307    22,284
1969/70     37,107    11,049        8,666        33,007       4,595       3,000        70,114      15,644       11,666         93,446    27,310
1970/71     36,309    10,734       10,632        54,391      11,311      16,088        90,700      22,045      26,711         144,122    48,756
1971/72     29,934      7,706       7,443        78,840       7,023       1,672       108,774      i4,729        9,115        127,004    23,844
1972/73     16,489      3,776       5,825        76,106      11,161      15,218        92.595      14,937      21,043         134,681    35,980
1973/74     16,434      5,872       6,950        54,486       5,235       5,314        70.920      11,107       12,264         95,448    23,371
1974/75     23,833      6,191       7,661        35,088      11,786      18,616        58,921      17,977      26,277         111,475    44,254
1975/76     28,553      8,194      10,433        43,354      12,646      18,288        71,907      20,840      28,721         129,349    49,561
1976/77     35,547    10,333       10,655        22,571         932        NIL         58,118      11,265       10,655         79,428    21,920
1977/78     41,960    12,200       11,413        28,084       1,896        NIL         70,044      13,996       11,413         92,870    25,409
1978/79     29,713    10,806       14,226        73,174       3,781      12,384       102,887      14,587      26,610         156,107    41,197
1979/80     28,306      8,313      13,835       115,541      18,437       7,574       143,847      26,750       21,409        186,665    48,159
1980/81     14,762      2,246      11,787       115,539      30,935      25,880       130,301      33,181      37,667         205,635    70,848
1981/82     19,675    11,658        9,441        89,550      12,593      11,020       109,225      24,251      20,461         150,146    44,712
1/ One wheel-set consists of two wheels and one axle fully assembled.
2/ Wheel-sets converted to wheels and axles.
Source: IR
September 1982
'ID
0'
U-,



-57-
Table 10
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR Wheel, Tyre and Axle Requirements, Present Manufacturing Capacity,
Projected Production and Shortfall 1982/83 - 1986/87
1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
WHEELS
Total IR requirements                   82,083    112,500   128,600   141,000   141,000
Domestic manufacturing capacity 1/    40,000        40,000    60,000    80,000    80,000
Production                              24,361      26,000    35,000    70,000    70,000
Production shortfall                    57,722      86,500    93,600    71,000    71,000
TYRES
Total IR requirements                   52,132      50,000    50,000    50,000    50,000
Domestic manufacturing capacity         27,500      27,500    27,500    27,500    27,500
Production                              16,000      25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000
Production shortfall                    36,132      25,000    25,000    25,000    25,000
AXLES
Total IR requirements                   38,460      55,000    65,000    75,000       75,000
Domestic manufacturing capacity 1/    20,000        20,000    25,000    40,000       40,000
Production                              13,208      15,000    20,000    39,00O       39,000
Production shortfall                    25,252      40,000    45,000    36,000       36,000
1/ Domestic capacity of wheel reduced in 1982/83 because
M/s TISCO has discontinued manufacture of wheels and
axles. This will increase with the commissioning of
wheels and axles plant.
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Schedule of Training of Officers and Supervisors for DCW
(In Weeks)
S1.   Category            Total No.   Orientation   D.L.W.   Rallway   Public   Indian         Indian      Foreign   Foreign
No.                      of Staff                             Work-      Sector   Institute   H/C          H/C        Institute
shop      Under    & Similar   Supplier   Supplier  Similar
Taking   plants                             plaot
1.    Design &
Quality Control      26           4(all)       4(12)      -          -       4(4)          -           -        8(2)
2.   Plant Engineering    b7            4(all)       8(20)      -          -        -           4(8)        8(2)       8(2)
3.    Chemists              20          4(all)       4(8)       -        4(4)      2(2)         4(2)        6(2)       4(2)   1
4.    Industrial Eng.       27          4(all)       4(10)      -          -       4(2)          -           -         8(2)  ui
5.    Manufacturing         97          4(all)       8(25)      8(40)   4(10)       0           2(4)        8(2)*      12(2)
6.    Loco. and Bogle
Stripping and
Erection             45           4(all)       4(20)      4(20)      -7                    -           -         12(4)
7.    Officers              96          4(32)        2(12)      -        4(20)     4(20)        4(25)       8(16)      8(16)
Notes:
Figtures in brackets indicate number of staff.
* Majority of training included in purchase cost of machinery.
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY NODERNIZATTON AND HANINTENANCE PROJECT 11
Schedule of Artisan Staff Training for DCW
(In Weeks)
S1.   Category           Total No.   Orientation   At D.L.W.   Other    Public   Indian           Foreign    Foreign
No.                      of Staff                                 Rly.      Sector   Institute    M/"          Inlstitulte
Work-    under-   & similar   supplier   similar
shops    taking   Plant                     Plant
1.    Welder               34           4(all)        8(20)       2(8)      -           2(6)         -           6(4)
2.    Machinist (General) 64            4(all)        8(32)        -        -            -           -            -
3.    Machinist           138           4(all)        8(60)        -        2(20)       2(20)        2(10)
(Special)
4.    Millwright           55           4(all)        8(40)        -        -           2(10)        4(10)        -
fitters
5.    Fitters (elec.)    128            4(all)        2(50)       4(50)    -             -           3(4)       4(10)
6.    Fitters (mech.)    268            4(all)        8(150)      4(100)   -             -           3(8)        4(20)
7.    C & M                11           4tall)        8(11)        -        -          2(4)          -            _
8.    Armature            137           4(all)          -         4(60)    8(20)        2(8)         -           4(10)
Winder
9.    Ileat Treatment      38           4(all)        8(20)        -        4(10)       2(4)         4(2)         -
10.    Crome Platers        14           4(all)        24(14)       -        -           2(4)         4(2)         -
11.    Rubber Houlder        8           4(all)          -          -        -           4(4)         4(4)         -
12.    P.C.C.               26           4(all)        24(15)       --                                -
13.    Transport            30           2(all)        4(30)        -        -            -           -
14.    Painters             10           2(all)        4(10)       2(4)      _                        _ 
15.    Loco erectors       260           2(all)        4(60)       2(80)    -             -           2(8)        4(20)
(elec. & mech.)
Bogie fitters
Note:  Figures in brackets indicate no. of staff.                                                                            .3
o 1i
Source:  IR and the missiou
September 1982



-60-
Table 12
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year              Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                  'At the End of Quarter            %
(US$ Million Equivalent)
1982-83   March 31, 1983                              6                     1
June 30, 1983                              7                     1
1983-84   September 30, 1983                         10                     2
December 31, 1983                         21                     5
March 31, 1984                            32                     8
June 30, 1984                             44                    11
1984-85   September 30,1984                          66                    16
December 31, 1984                        100                    24
March 31, 1985                           126                    30
June 30, 1985                            156                    38
1985-86   September 30, 1985                        201                    48
December 31, 1985                        226                    54
March 31, 1986                           266                    64
June 30, 1986                            301                    73
1986-87   September 30, 1986                        341                    82
December 31, 1986                        375                    94
March 31, 1987                           385                    96
June 30, 1987                            390                    98
1987-88   September 30, 1987                        40U                   100
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Summary of the Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of the Project
---------------Cost Streams ---------------           ---------Benefit Streams-----------
High                                                    High
Unit    Capacity   Other        Total                  Unit      Capacity    Total          Net Benefits
Years          DCW    Exchange   Wagons    Items        Project         DCW   Exchange    Wagons    Project           Total Project
1982/83         71.1          0          0         0       71.1             0        0           0          0             -  71.1
1983/84       203.8        1122        865       250     2440.8            0       100           0     100                -2340.8
1984/85       527.1        1122        865       250     2764.1        149.1       300         350      799.1             -1965.0
1985/86       529.1        1122        865       250     2766.1        378.0       746         700    1824                - 942.1
1986/87       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1987/88       261.1           0          0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1988/89       261.1           0          0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1989/90       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1990/91       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1991/92       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1992/93       261.1           0          0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1993/94       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0       746         700    1966                 1704.9
1994/95       261.1         (673)        0         0      (411.9)      520.0       746         700    1966                 2377.9
1995/96       261.1           0          0         0      261.1        520.0         0         700    1220.                 958.9
1996/97       261.1            0         0         0      261.1        520.0         0         700    1220                  958.9
2006/07       175.9           0       (260)   (75.0)    (159.1)        520.0         0         700    1220                 1379.1
Economic Rates of-Return
1.  For DCW -------------------------------------------------------------   24.0%
2.  For maintenance elements for the unit exchange system ----------------   23.3%
3.  For high capacity wagons ---------------------------- ---------------   30.3%
4.  For the entire project -----------------------------------------------   22.8%
NOTE:  Details on the economic evaluation of each project element are provided in Annex E.
September 1982



-62-
Table 14
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR  Revenue and Expenditure Accounts - 1976/77 to 1980/81
(In Current Rupees Million)
1976/77     1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81
Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual
Revenues
Passenger                                          5 693        6,217        6 728        7,388        8,274
Other Coaching                                       869          901          915          987        1,158
Goods                                             13,259       13,484       13,054       14,404       16,175
Sundries                                           _540           632       _ 813        _599            633
Total Revenues                                    20,361       21,234       21,510       23,378       26,240
Working_Expenses 1/
Administration                                     1,528        1 536         -            -             -
Repairs and Maintenanice                           5,956        6,087         -            -             -
Operating Staff                                    3 126        3 163         -            -             -
Fuel                                               2,883        2,992         -            -             -
Operating Other than Staff and Fuel                  872          880         -            -             -
Miscellaneous Expenses                               587          497         -            -             -
Staff Welfare                                        538          551         -            -             -
General Superintendence  and Services                -            -          1,139        1,242        1,415
Repairs and Maintenance of
Permanent Way and Works                            -            -          1 788        2 069       2 390
Repairs and Maintenance of Motive Power              -            -          1,637        1,769        2,046
Repairs and Maintenance of Carriage
and Wagons                                         -            -          2 014        2 221        2 590
Repairs and Maintenance of Plant
and Equipmenit                                     -            -            966        1 111        1,311
Operating Expenses Rolling Stock
and Equipment                                      -            -          2,092        2,194       2 469
Operating Expenses Traffic                           -            -          2,233        2,475        2,833
Operating Expenses Fuel                              -            -          3 090        3,741        4 917
Staff Welfare and Amenities                          -            -            o97          798          942
Miscellaneous Expenses                                            -            884          987        1,248
Total Working Expenses                            15,490       15,706       16,540       18,607      22,162
Appropriation to Depreciation Reserve Funid        1,350        1,400        1,450        2,000        2,200
Appropriation to Pension Fund                        350          393          678          817        1,003
Total Oper  ing Expenses                          17,190       17,499       18 668       21,424      25,364
Net Revenue from Operations                        3 171        3,735        2,842        1,954          875
Charges to Revenues of Capital Mature
Open Line Works                                       84           76           78           74           97
Miscellaneous Transaction                            124          131          156          167          302
Net Revenues                                       2 963        3,528        2,608        1,713        1,274
Dividend of Capital-at-Charge 2/                   2,091        2,266        2,241        2,375        3,253
Net Surplus (Deficit)                                872        1,262          367         (662)      (1,978)
Operating Ratio                                    84.4%        82.4%        86.7%        91.6%        96.6%
Ratio of Net Revenues to Capital-at-Charge          6.5%         7.4%         5.2%         4.1%         2.1%
Freight Traffic (tons originating) -                 239          237          223          217          220
million tons
1/ Accounts classification was changed in 1978/79 and expenses were booked
by function, resulting in a refinement from previous classification.
2/ Rate of Dividend on Capital-at-Charge. On capital provided by Government
5.5% to March 31, 1964; and 6.0% after March 31, 1964
Source: IR
September 1982



-63-
Table 15
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR Balance Sheet - March 31, 1981
(In Current Rupees Million)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                                         70,631
Inventories                                                           3,853
Sub-total                                                         74,484
Receivables                                                           4,771
Cash and Deposits with Government
Cash                                         1,959
Deposits                                    6,485                  8,444
87,699
CAPITAL AND RESERVE FUNDS
Investment Financed from:
Government Capital-at-Charge                                      60,963
Government Temporary Loans - DF             2,242
-RRF              -                   2 242
Railway Sources:
Depreciation Reserve Fund                    4,916
Development Fund                             5,795
Revenue                                      2,532
Accidents Compensation and
Passenger Amenities Fund                    278
13,521
Less Portion Financed by Temporary
Loans from Government                  2,242                 11,279
Sub-total                                                    74,484
Railway Funds:
Depreciation Reserve Fund                    2,756
Revenue Reserve Fund                             4
Development Fund                               (52)
Pension Fund                                 3,337
Accidents Compensation and
Passenger Amenities Fund                     439                 6,484
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                       6 731
TOTAL CAPITAL AND REVENUES                                              87,699
Source: IR
September 1982



-64-
Table 15
Tage`;jof 2
_R_- Notes to Balance Sheet March 31. 1981
1. Fixed Assets
The value of fixed assets shown in the balance sheet is based on
their original costs. Additional cost of like-for-like replacements over
their cost (the inflatlonary element) is charged against DRF, and has not
been included in the figures in the balance sheet. Improvement element at
the time of replacement has been included in the Fixed Asset account in
the balance sheet.
2. Depreciation Reserve Fund
This balance in the fund represents cumulative contributions
including interest earned to date less:
(a) value of assets withdrawn from services, and
(b) full cost of replacement.
3. Inventories
These are financed from Capital-at-Charge.
4. Investment Financed From Railway Sources
These are the published figures representing amounts the Railways
provided from their own sources over the years towards the capital invest-
ment program.
Development Fund
Development Fund 1s created out of IR's net revenue surpluses
after meeting dividend liability to GOI. In the last few years, IR
revenues have not been sufficient to clear dividend liabilities in full
and temporary loans were drawn to meet the expenditure chargeable to
Development Fund. As of March 31, 1981, IR has an outstanding loan of
Rs 2,242 million under the Development Fund. Because of the acceptance by
the Government of the recommendations of the Committee on IR's Finances,
there is no outstanding loan under the Revenue Reserve Fund, but there is
undischarged dividend liability of Rs 3,793 million which has not been
taken into account in the balance sheet. The year-to-year position of the
outstanding loan under the Development Fund is as under.
Rs million
Net Cumulative
Year             Loan Drawn              Repayments      Outstanding Loan
1967/68               112                     -                   112
1968/69               141                     -                   253
1969/70               181                     -                   434
1970/71               216                     -                  650
1971/72               216                     -                  866
1972/73               157                    167*                856
1973/74               227                     -                1,083
1974/75               219                     -                1,302
1975/76               223                      -               1,525
1976/77                -                      -                I,525
1977/78                -                      -                1,525
1978/79                54                     -                1,579
1979/80               316                     -                1,895
1980/81               347                     -                2,242
* Repaid by application of dividend relief.
5. Development Fund: Finances expenditure of a capital nature for:
(a)  Operating improvements costing over Re 300,000 each.
(b)  Users' amenities irrespective of their cost.
(c)  Staff amenities costing more than Rs 25,000 each.
6.  Items Financed from Revenue are:
(a)  Operating improvements costing up to Rs 300,000 each.
(b)  Staff amenities costing up to Rs 25,000 each.
7. Provident Fund and Staff Benefit Fund
The balances as of March 31, 1981I Rs 9,020 million, are not
shown in the above balance sheet since these funds are held in special
deposit accounts, specifically for paying benefits to employees. Con-
tributions to the Fund are charged to operating expenses.
Source:  IR
September 1982



-65-
Table 16
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR - Distribution of Key Revenue Expenditure Items as Percentage of Total Revenues
1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80   1980/81    1981/82*
(a) Total Working Expenses                76.1        74.0        76.9        79.6       85.0        76.6
Depreciation Reserve Fund              6.6         6.6         6.7        8.5        8.4          9.8
Pension Fund                           1.7         1.8        2.3         2.7        3.2         2.7
Dividend Paid                         10.3        10.7        10.4         7.3        4.9        10.5
Net Surplus (Deficit)                  4.3         5.9         1.7        (2.8)      (7.5)        1.5
Distribution of Key Cost Items as Percentage of Total Working Expenses
(b) Total Working Expenses               100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0        100.0      100.0
Staff                                 54.2       55.2        55.1       54.6          53.0      53.0
Fuel                                  18.6        19.0        18.4      19.9          21.5      21.5
Material, Supplies and Stores         27.2        25.8        26.5      25.5          25.5      25.5
* Provisional
Source: Mission Estimate
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Changes in Average Fare and Freight Rates in Relation to Prices of Major Inputs of IR's Costs
1970/71 to 1981/82
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77   1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82 1/
Average rate per passenger km             100        102.0      102.8       108.4       130.8       138.4       138.8     140.8       139.6       146.8       158.8       173.6
Average rate per ton km                   100        103.3      105.7       108.5       131.9       149.5       163.2     159.1       162.1       177.5       193.4       254.0
Average annual cost per employee          100        105.7      109.2       118.7       152.3       178.9       185.9     190.1       201.2       223.3       248.2       270.3
Index Number of wholesale prices
based on 1970/71
Coal                                      100       102.2       110.8       121.7       143.0       184.2       197.6     198.8       212.2       293.6       340.6       424.4
High speed Diesel                         100       104.9       105.9       119.5       194.3       206.4      213.9      214.1       216.7       243.8       279.6       385.9
Electricity                               100       102.5       105.7       111.3       137.2       158.1       171.6     182.5       209.1       225/6       239.7       277.0
Iron, Steel and Ferrous alloys           100        105.8       117.6       142.6       171.3       184.5      186.9      188.2       212.5       258/2       272.4       318.1
Cement, Lime and Plaster                  100       105.4       109.5       112.3       147.8       170.7       173.5     176.6       196.2       229.1       232.6       261.7
Machinery and Transport equipment         100       105.3       112.1       122.7       156.4       172.6       170.1     172.6       183.9       215.9       238.8       257.6
Foodgrains                                100       103.4       119.5       141.9       195.8       174.1      152.7      170.4       172.6       185/4       216.6       237.4
All commodities                           100       105.6       116.2       139.7       174.9       173.0      176.6      185.8       185.8       217/6       256.9       280.5
Cost of living index number
(working class)                          100        103.2       111.3       134.4       170.4      168.3       161.8      174.2       178.0       193.6      215.6       242.5
1/  Provisional.
Source: IR
September 1982



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
IR REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE 1981-82 TO 1986-87
SCENARIO II
IR's 1981-1982             (Figures in Current Rupees Million)
(Revised                       BANK GROUP FORECAST
Estimate)      1982-83    1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87
REVENUES
Passengers                       9,840          11,942      12,320      12,7.30     13,140     13,550
Other Coaching                   1,279           1,398        1,440      1,440       1,520       1,560
Goods                           23,448          26,904       27,369     27,842      28,323      28,813
Sundry                             851             876          910        940         970       1,000
Total Revenues:                 35,418          41,120       42,039     42,952      43,953      44,923
WORKING EXPENSES
Personnel                        14,388         15,953       16,229     16,509      16,794      17,084
Fuel                              5,836          6,472        6,584      6,697       6,813       6,930
Stores                           6,922           7,675        7,807      7,943       8,080       8,220
Total Working Expenses:         27,146          30,100       30,620     31,149      31,687      32,234
Appropriation to DRF              3,500          5,000        5,000       5,300      6,500       6,800
Appropriation to PF                 985          1,480        1,750       1,900      2,150       2,300
Total Operating Expenses:        31,631         36,580       37,370      38,349     40,337      41,334
Net Operating Revenues            3,787          4,540        4,669       4,603      3,616       3,589
Net Miscellaneous Credits           433            400          450         500        205         311
Net Revenue:                     .4,220          4,940        5,119       5,103      3,821       3,900
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge    3,702           4,051        4,290       4,430      4,660       5,010
Net Surplus/(Deficit)               518             889         829         673        (839)    (1,110)
Note:  Rate of Dividend on Capital-at-Charge:  Or Capital provided by the Government 5.5% to March 31, 1964;
and 6.0% after March 31, 1964.
Source: 1981-82 IR's Estimate; 1982-83 to 1986-87 Mission Estimate.
September 1982
oq ar
(D H
o X
Fh



-68-
Table 18
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR and Revenue and Expenditure Forecasts - Assumptions
1981-82 to 1986-87
1.        The FY82 figures represent IR's revised estimates.  Subsequent
years FY83 to FY87 are Bank Group estimates based on the higher freight
rates as proposed in the Railway Budget for FYF3 presented to Parliament
on February 23, 1982, and on traffic levels forecasted (by the Bank Group)
in paragraph 2.35 'Scenario II'. Correspondingly it is assumed that small
improvements in operational efficiency as a result of the proposed project
would be achieved and is reflected in the total working expenses. Further
breakdown and assumptions used in forecasting revenues and expenditures
are discussed in subsequent paragraphs.
2.        The estimates, therefore, take a-count of the three major influences
which have occurred since the appraisal of the First Modernization Project in
1978 that is over the past three years:
(a)   the revision of tariffs which resulted in increases in both
freight rates and passenger fares during the period 1979-82,
and the increase allowed from April 1, 1982;
(b)   increased costs of fuel and coal, repairs and maintenance and
consumable stores; and
(c)   the wage awards and dearness allowances sanctioned by GOI, the
latest being effective from April, 1982, and the productivity-
linked-bonus allowed to the railway staff for the year 1979-80
onwards.
3.        Revenue forecasts for 1982-83 onward reflect the increase in traffic
anticipated during the period (para 2.35 Scenario II), but do not take into
account any further adjustment in tariff and fare levels, though further upward
adjustments are expected to take place in view of the recommendations of the
Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee.
4.        The total working expenses are based on the detailed analysis of the
current costs, related to freight and passenger traffic forecasts. The ratios
between the three main elements of the costs are as under:
Personnel                            53.0%
Fuel                                 21.5%
Other costs and stores               25.5%



-69-
Table 18
Page 3 of 3
5.        Provision for Appropriation to Depreciation Reserve Fund for the
years 1981-82 and 1982-83 are based on the interim recommendations of the
Railway Convention Committee, and provisions for subsequent years are
provisional as the final recommendations in this regard have yet to be given
by the Railway Convention Committee.
6.        Appropriation for Pension Fund are based on estimated expenditure
on this account.
7.        Total revenues are projected to increase by 26.9% during the period
1981-82 to 1986-87, increasing from Rs 35,418 million to Rs 44,923 million.
Total working expenses are expected to increase from Rs 27,416 million in
1981-82 to Rs 32,234 million in 1986-87 which in percentage terms is about
18.7%. This points to high level of variable costs and the need to further
adjust the freight rates and passenger fares. Total operating expenses are
anticipated to increase from Rs 31,631 million in 1981-82 to Rs 41,334 million
registering an increase of 30.7%. The higher rate of increase in expenditure
is due to step up in appropriation for depreciation.
8.        For the year 1981-82, average receipt per ton km of freight is
anticipated to be paise 13.2 and average receipt per pass.km is anticipated
to be paise 4.42.
9.        The revenue and expenditure forecast is based on IR's preliminary
estimate of investment plan for the period 1982-83 to 1986-87.
Source: IR and Mission Estimate
September 1982



-70-
INDIA
Table 19
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINtENANCE PROJECT II
IR Forecast Balance Sheet as of March 31. 1982-87
(Figures in Current Millions of Rupees)
IR's Revised
Estimate        -----------Bank Group Forecast----------
1982   _      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
As sets
Fixed Assets                                   76,987        83,145   89,650   96,802  102,117   106,677
Floating Assets                                 4,200         4,536    4,854    5, 145    5,402        5,618
81,187        87,681   94,504  101,947  107,519   112,295
Receivables                                     4,818         4,866    4 916    4,967    5,025         5,087
Cash and Deposits with Government
Cash                                            1,231          1,231    1,231    1,231    1,231        1,231
Deposits                                        5,454         6,019    6,761    7934        5,868      4,603
Total Assets                                   92,690        99,797   107,412 115,494  119,643   123,216
iCaptal and Reserve Fund
Investment financed from
Government Capital-at-Charge                 66,400        72,780    76,465  80,150   86,650    93,150
Temporary Loan Government - DF                  2,242         2,242      2,242   2,242    3,052        3,913
68,642        75,022    78,707  82,392   89,702    97,063
Rai;Lway Sources
Depreciation Reserve Fund                       6,216          7,716      7,716   8,016   10,216    10,216
Development Fund                                6,255         6,245       6,375   6,475    7,175       7,175
Open Line Works                                 2,632         2,642      2,682   2,725    2,735        2,735
Accident Compensation Fund                        398            398        398      408      428         428
Less Financed from Temporary
Loan from Government                         (2,242)       (2,242)   (2,242) (2,242)  (3,052)   (3,913)
81,901        89,781    93,636  97,774  107,204   113,704
Railway Funds
Depreciation Reserve Fund                       1,527          1,631      1,766   1,931         52    (1,700)
Development Fund                                     -             -          -        -         -          -
Revenue Reserve Fund                                 4             4          4        4         5          5
Pension Fund                                    3,492          3,894     4,440   4,825       5,275    5,825
Accident Compensation Fund                        431            490        551      589        536       473
5,454         6,019      6,761   7,349       5,868    4,603
Current Liabilities                                5,335         3,997      7,015  10,371       6,571    4,909
Total Capital and Reserves                       92,690         99,797   107,412 115,494   119,643  123,216
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



-71-
Table 20
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
IR Forecast Source and Application of Funds 1981-82 to 1986-87
(Figures in Current Millions of Rupees)
---------------------Forecast------------------
1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87  Total
Source of Funds
Net Revenue                                       4,940     5,119      5,103       3,821    3,900    22,883
Less Dividend on Capital-at-Charge                4,051     4,290      4,430       4,660    5,010    22,441
Surplus/Shortfall                                   889        829        673     (  839)  (1,110)        442
Contribution to DRF                               5,000      5,000     5,300       6,500    6,800    28,600
Capital Works Charged to Revenue                    110        150        193        200       200        853
Increase in Pension Fund Excluding Interest         170       280        340         200       210      1,200
Accident Compensation, Safety and Passenger
Amenities Fund                                     86         87        87          80        74        414
Interest on Fund Balances                           388        387       512         248       305      1,840
Railway Cash Generation                           6,643      6,733     7,105       6,389    6,479    33,349
Capital Funds Received from Government            6,380     3,685      3,685       6,500    6,500    26,750
Temporary Loans from Government - DF                  -          -          -        795       973      1,768
Total Sources of Funds                          13,023    10,418    10,790        13,684   13,952    61,867
Application of Funds
Capital Works Charged to Revenue                    110        150        193        200       200        853
Replacement Work DRF                              5,230     5,000      5,591       7,500    7,500    30,821
Works Charged to DF                                 320        450        455         650      650      2,525
Works Charged to RACF                               170        170        144         150      150        784
Additions Charged to Capital                      6,044      3,367     3,394       6,243    6,284    25,332
Total Capital Expenditure                        11,874      9,137     9,777      14,743   14,784    60,315
Increase (Decrease) in Inventories                  336        318       291         257       216      1,418
Repayment of Temporary Loans - RRF                    -          -          -           -        -          -
- DF                113         87          -           -         -       200
Interest on Temporary Loans  - DRF                    -          -          -          -         -          -
- DF                134        134        134         165       217        784
12,457      9,676    10,202      15,165   15,217    62,717
Increase (Decrease) in Fund Balance                 566        742        588     (1,481)  (1,265)   (  850)
Total Application of Funds                       13,023    10,418    10,790       13,684   13,952    61,867
Funds Flow
Opening Balance                                   5,450      6,016      6,758       7,346    5,865
Closing Balance                                   6,016      6,758      7,346      5,865    4,600
Increase (Decrease) in Fund Balance - DRF           104        135        165     (1,879)  (1,752)
- Pension        403        546        385         450       550
- DF               -          -          -           1         -
- RRF              -          -          -           -         -
- ACSPF           59         61         38         (53)      (63)
Temporary Loan
Temporary Loans Balances
Outstanding - RRF                                   -          -          -           -         -
- DF                              2,129      2,042      2,042       2,837    3,810
Dividend Liability
Balance Outstanding Dividend
Liability at Beginning of Year                    3,736      3,128      2,753       2,626    3,465
Dividend due for the Year                         4,051      4,290      4,430      4,660    5,010
Lees Dividend paid during the Year                4,051      4,290      4,430       3,821    3,900    20,492
Deferred Dividend paid during the Year              608        375        127           -         -
Balance Outstanding Dividend
Liability at End of the Year                      3,128      2,753      2,626       3,465    4,575
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
September 1982



-72-
Annex A
Page 1
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Selected Documents Available in the Project File 1/
Transport and Railways
1.   Report of the National Transport Policy Committe, Planning Commission.
GOI, May 1980
2.   The Main Report of the Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee (Five Volumes).
GOI, June 1980
Motive Power
3.   Study of the Relative Economics of Diesel and Electric Traction on
Indian Railways. IR, June 1978
4.   Report of the Committee on Motive Power.  IR, December 1978
5. Modernization Project for 1500V DC Banking Locomotive. IR, June 1979
Rolling Stock
6.   Report of the Committee on Capacity Augmentation for Coach Production.
IR, January 1979
7.   Interim Report on Techno Economic Study of New Coach Building Factory.
IR (ICF), October 1979
8.   Project Report of Box "N" Wagon.  IR, January 1981
Workshops and Maintenance
9.   Master Plan Study for Workshops.  Inception Report.  RITES, April 1980
1/ Additional documents pertaining to most components of this project are
available in the Project File for Credit 844-IN and are listed in
Annex A of Report No. 2020-IN (SAR dated July 24, 1980).



-73-
Annex A
Page 2
10.   Master Plan Study for Workshops:  Volume I, POH System; Volume II, MRUE
and Related Systems; Volume III, Inventory of Facilities and Activities.
RITES, November 1980
Remanufacturing
11.   Detailed Project Report for a Diesel Loco Remanufacturing and Component
Works (Three Volumes). RITES, May 1979. Supplementary Report. RITES,
July 1979
12.   Review of the Project Report for a Diesel Loco Remanufacturing and
Component Works. IR, November 1980
13.   Project Report for Diesel Component Works, Patiala.  IR, January 1981.
Supplementary Report. IR, April 1981
Management Information System
14.   Real Time Computer System for Freight Operations Control and Passenger
Reservations. IR, August 1979
15.   Installing Operating Information and Telecommunication System on Indian
Railways. Robert McAfee and John Albertson (Consultants), May 1980
16.   Freight Operations Management System.  IR, March 1982
Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee
17. Estimates of Financial Impact Arising from Implementation of RTEC
Recommendations.
18. Schedule Showing Adjustment of Freight Effected Compared to Recommended
Freight in RTEC Report.



-74-
Annex B
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Summary Timetable for Preparation of Operating Information
System and Related Telecommunications
During the negotiations, the need and implementation of an
operating information system (OIS) and related telecommunication network
was discussed. A schedule for preparation of a project to achieve the
agreed upon objective has been prepared as shown below. GOI has confirmed
that steps 1 through 3 will be accomplished by the dates indicated in the
schedule. Steps 4 through 9 represented best estimates of these dates.
Tasks                                       _ Target Completion Dates
1. Completion of preliminary OIS and
telecommunications feasibility studies by
CANAC and TRANSMARK.                                       January 1983
2.  Select OIS Collaborator.                                   April 1983
3. Develop integrated OIS and Telecommunications
Project Plan (i.e., implementation strategies,
schedules, staffing and costs).                            June 1983
4.  Develop CPU specifications.                                July 1983
5.  Identify reporting stations and make reporting
volume estimates.                                          September 1983
6.  Develop computer terminal specifications.                  September 1983
7. Develop communications control centre equipment
specifications.                                            September 1983
8.  Complete microwave network specifications.                 December 1983
9. Complete detailed OIS Study, including
identification of and detailed plans for:                  December 1983
a. application program modifications;
b. system program modifications;
c. required changes to IR coding systems; and
d. detailed training and implementation schedules
and staffing requirements.
September 1982



-75-
Annex C
Page 1
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
RAILWAY TRAFFIC FORECASTS
I. Macroeconomic Considerations
1.01    The growth of the country's economy during the Fourth Year Plan
(1968/69-1973/74) was slower than predicted. Instead of the targetted
5.5%, GDP grew at a real rate of about 3.4% per annum. The end of the
Plan period was marked by a number of adverse events, internal (the
1972/73 drought) as well as external (the Bangladesh conflict and the
steep rise in world grain and petroleum prices of 1973). After a period
of difficult adjustment, however, the GDP (at factor cost) grew at an
annual average rate of 5.3% between 1975/76 and 1978/79. This performance
was slightly below the Fifth Year Plan's target of 5.5% p.a., 1/ but it
compares very favorably with a long-term trend of growth rate of GDP at
3.7% p.a. from 1950/51 to 1978/79.
1.02    1979/80 was a year of serious economic decline, underscored by a
severe drought which produced a fall of about 16% in agricultural produc-
tion, and by a deterioration of industrial production, which registered a
decline of 1.4% after four years with an average rate of growth of about
7%. The decline in industrial production was largely due to shortfalls in
the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as
constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and tran-
sportation. GDP declined by about 5%. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the Indian
economy after 1975 gave way to a sudden rise in the level of prices after
1979/80.
1.03    During 1980/81, the economy started to recover.  Weather was
normal, which allowed a recovery in agricultural production, which rose by
more than 15Z. Close attention to the performance of infrastructural
services and the availability of basic goods improved their supply begin-
ning in the middle of the year, resulting in a growth in industrial
production by 4%; GDP rose by 7.5%.
1.04    During 1981/82, the economy largely completed the recovery phase,
resulting in a year of solid growth on top of the rebound of 1980/81.
Even though the 1981 monsoon withdrew early and foodgrain production was
only 2%-3% higher than in 1980/81, production of other crops was better.
1/ The Fifth Plan was originally envisaged to cover the period
1974/75-1979/80, but it was cut short by the defeat of the Congress
party during the elections of 1978.



-76-
Annex C
Page 2
The total agricultural output grew by about 4%. Industrial output con-
tinued to recover from the supply problems which earlier had constrained
the economy and grew by over 8%. GDP grew by around 5.5%. Inflation is
clearly decelerating as wholesale prices rose by about 10% on average
annual basis, compared to 17% in 1979/80, and 18% in 1980/81.
1.05    In the 1980's, the country's economy is shifting from a situation
of resource surplus which characterized the last half of the 1970's, to
one of resource scarcity. The economy is facing basic infrastructural and
supply constraints whose relaxation requires substantial domestic invest-
ments and an unprecedented mobilization of foreign resources. In the
current Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85) the GOI gives high priority to
expansion of irrigation and rural development and to investments in the
energy sector. The share of investment in the transport sector dropped
from 14% of the total in the Fifth Plan to 12.7% in the Sixth. The
financing of this ambitious Plan relies heavily on raising the domestic
savings rate from its already high level and in reducing a rapidly rising
import bill while boosting the traditionally weak export sector. To
attain these targets, India must avoid imports that can be produced
economically at home, must accelerate exports, mobilize and then utilize
aid at a faster rate than hitherto and borrow more on non-concessional
terms.
1.06    The final size of the public sector outlay under the Plan has been
fixed at Rs 975 billion (US$108.3 billion equivalent) at 1979/80 prices
but this figure could be raised during the mid-term Plan review). This
is, in real terms, 80% higher than the outlay in the Fifth Year Plan. The
mobilization of the large volume of domestic and foreign resources
required to finance this plan will no doubt take some time to materialize.
The Plan advocates an average annual growth rate in GDP of 5.3% between
1980/81 and 1984/85. The Bank Group's Economic Report 1/ projects a real
growth rate of 6% in 1981/82, followed by a 5% per year for the period
1982/83 to 1984/85.
II. Traffic Forecasts
(a) Freight
2.01    Railways and road transport account for about 96% of India's
freight traffic. Traffic carried by these modes increased from 50 to 269
billion ton-kms between 1950/51 and 1979/80, or by 5.4 times during this
1/ Economic Situation and Prospects of India, Report No. 3872-IN. April
7, 1982; Table 2.4. For brevity, this report will be referred to as
WB's Economic Report in the rest of this Annex.



-77-
Annex C
Page 3
period. The change in the share of each of the two main transport modes
in the total and the comparison of their growth with that of GDP at factor
cost (at 1970/71 prices) is shown below:
Land Freight Traffic (Billion TKms)    GDP in            TKms per
Year         Rail   %       Road    %      Total    billion Rs   Unit GDP (f-g)
/a             /b    7c      7d     7e       /fW/                       /h
1950/51      44.1   89      5.5    11       49.6      175.36          0.28
1955/56      59.6   87      8.9    13       68.5      208.70           0.33
1960/61      87.7   71    35.0    29    122.7         255.34          0.48
1965/66     116.9   68    55.0    32    171.9         290.23          0.59
1970/71     127.4   66    66.9    34    193.4         367.36          0.53
1975/76     148.2   67    73.0    33    221.3         426.33           0.52
1976/77     156.8   67    76.0    33    232.8         432.48          0.54
1977/78     162.7   68    77.0    32    239.7         469.73           0.51
1978/79     154.8   62    93.6    38    248.4         497.23          0.50
1979/80     156.0   61   101.0    39    257.0         469.48           0.54
1980/81     158.5                                     504.80
1981/82     174.0                                     533.26
Sources:  1950/51-1977/78 traffic figures:  Report of the National Transport
Policy Committee, Planning Commission, May 1980. Table 2.2.
1978/79-1979/80 traffic figures: Indian Railways and Planning
Commission. GDP figures: WB's Economic Report, Table 2.1(b).
2.02    As has long been established, there is a close correlation between
growth of ton-km and GDP for most countries. In the case of India, the
ratio of ton-km to GDP shows considerable stability over time, par-
ticularly after 1965/66. This indicator of the link between economic
development and the transport sector has been used as a criterion to
establish a boundary to expected future growth in railway traffic. This
criterion is used in this analysis as one of the guidelines in estab-
lishing expected rail traffic.
2.03    Given the uncertainty which traffic forecasts entail, and par-
ticularly bearing in mind the state of transition of the country's
economy, three scenarios have been tested to obtain estimates for the
Eighties. The first one assumes an economic rate of growth of 3.7% p.a.,
in line with the historical trend. The second scenario assumes an annual
rate of growth of GDP of 4.5%, as expected in WB's Economic Report (see
para 1.06 above), but extended to cover the period 1980/81 to 1990/91.
The third alternative contemplates an annual growth of GDP in accordance
with the Sixth Plan (5.2% p.a.), also used as an average for the entire
decade. Basic assumptions used to establish an upper boundary in traffic
volumes are that: (i) the share of rail traffic in the transport sector



-78-
Annex C
Page 4
would be around 60%, prevalent value for the last few years (energy con-
servation policy and latest improvements in operations support the assump-
tion of no further decline of railway share); and (ii) the ratio of ton-km
to GDP (at 1970/71 prices) would remain at 0.53, the average for the
period 1965/66-1979/80. Given these assumptions, the forecast of total
overland and railway traffic would vary as follows:
Estimated GDP in         Total Overland              Rail Traffic Share
billion 1970/71 Rs      Transport (BTKMs) /a   %           BTKMs /a
Year        S1       S2       S3      S1      S2      S3             Si    S2      S3
1981/82   533.26  533.26  533.26   282.6  282.6  282.6   61.0   173   173   173/b
1982/83   553.0   557.3   561.0    293.1  295.4  297.3   61.0   179   180   181
1983/84   573.5   582.3   590.2    304.0  308.6  312.8   61.0   185   188   191
1984/85   594.7   608.5   620.9    315.2  322.5  329.7   61.0   192   197   201
1990/91   739.5   792.5   841.6    391.9  420.0  445.7   61.0   239   256   272
Notes:  Si - Scenario 1; S2 = Scenario 2; S3 = Scenario 3.
/a  BTKms = Billion ton-kms.  In this Annex the analysis has been focused on this
parameter as the relevant unit of traffic rather than originating tons, or
equivalent four-wheeler wagons or other similar units used by IR.
/b Provisional value given by IR for 1981/82.
2.04    Since 1965/66 until 1977/78, the railway share of traffic has been
almost invariably around 67%. After that, (see Section H of Chapter II)
IR has had several problems that severely affected its production with a
consequent drop in its traffic share at the level of about 60%, but in the
last two years the recovery has been significant. The NTPC report
forecasted a possible share of railways in the order of 70%, but this
figure seems to be optimistic. The assumed 61% seems to be realistic,
possibly on the conservative side.
2.05    A more accurate forecast, of course, entails a detailed examina-
tion of growth estimates for the main commodity groups moved by the rail-
ways. As indicated by Table 4, in 1981/82 seven groups of commodities
made up 80.4% of revenue tonnage and 75.0% of revenue ton-kms. These
commodities are coal, steel inputs and products, foodgrains, POL, iron ore
for export, cement and fertilizers. A detailed forecast per commodity
group follows.
(i) Coal
2.06    Coal constitutes the main domestic source of commercial energy in
India.  The country's potential for hydroelectricity is estimated to be
100,000 MW of which 70,000 MW is economically exploitable. Only about
11,000 MW is currently developed. Production of coal kept pace with



-79-
Annex C
Page 5
planned targets and was well ahead of demand between 1973/74 and 1975/76.
However, output increases could not be sustained after 1976/77 and coal
production stagnated around 100 million tons for the next three years,
falling behind the reduced demand for these years. During 1979/80 coal
production increased by 2% to 104 million tons and in 1980/81 the total
production was 114 million, a significant 10% annual growth. In 1981/82
the production is estimated to be about 124 million.
2.07    WB's Economic Report finds GOI coal demand estimates generally
sound, although the assumed production targets, especially for steel and
cement, appear optimistic. GOI's estimates indicate an average annual
growth of demand of 10.1% for the period 1980/81-1985/86 and of 7.9% for
the whole period 1980/81-1989/90. On the supply side, GOI's coal produc-
tion targets assume a 12.5% average annual growth during the
1980/81-1984/85 period (from 112.71 to 179.19 million tons) and 9.7%
between 1984/85-1989/90 (up to 260.45 million tons). These production
targets are also deemed to be ambitious, particularly for the
1980/81-1984/85 period. IDA's Economic Report forecasts that for the coal
sector as a whole, output in 1984/85 should be in the region of 160-165
million tons 1/ which represents an annual growth of 8.8% as compared with
1980/81 production. Accordingly, it has been conservatively assumed that
coal availability would yearly grow by about 4.1%, 6.0% and 8.8% until
1984/85 and 7.5% thereafter during the period 1981/82 to 1990/91, and that
the railway share would remain fairly constant, taking into consideration
IR plans to increase the number of high capacity wagons (see para 3.29)
(historical growth from 1970/71 to 1979/80).
2.08    Average haul distances are expected to increase during the Sixth
Plan period due to the location of some new mines which are expected to
come into operation in the next few years, and the location and tonnage of
additional users, particularly the new cement and power plants in western
India, several of which are expected to be operating by 1984/85. However,
towards the end of the decade, the new high-power thermal stations are
expected to be in operation. Since they will be located closer to the
coal fields than previous ones, the average lead for coal will decrease.
Future traffic has been estimated to range between 49.4 and 56.4 billion
ton-kms in 1984/85 and between 62.9 and 87.0 billion ton-kms by the year
1990/91 (see Table 5).
(ii) Steel Plant Traffic
2.09    From 1970/71 to 1979/80 the average increase in output of both
ingot and saleable steel was over 3% per annum. However, the variations
1/ See para.5.90 of WB's Economic Report.



-80-
Annex C
Page 6
in production throughout the decade were erratic with a very low increase
between 1970/71 and 1974/75 (1.1% for ingot and 2.1% for saleable steel)
followed by an upsurge in 1974/75-1976/77 of 16.0% and 19.2% annual rates
of growth for ingot and saleable steel, respectively, which gave way to a
decline of 5.1% p.a. for ingot and 13.5% p.a. for saleable steel between
1977/78 and 1979/80. Production tonnages of pig iron, ingot and saleable
steel stood at 1.1 million, 8.0 million and 6.0 million, respectively,
during 1979/80. Current indications are that overall output for 1980/81
remained at about the 1979/80 level but a significant annual growth of
about 14% is expected for 1981/82. Consumption of finished steel during
the seventies grew faster than production, at a rate of about 5.5% p.a.,
the deficit being compensated by curtailing exports (India has been a net
exporter on and off for a number of years) and stepping up imports.
2.10    Total ingot steel capacity in integrated plants (the public sector
accounts for about 82% of large plant capacity in India) is expected to be
raised from 11.4 million tons in 1979/80 to 14.6 million tons in 1984/85
and 22.6 million tons in 1989/90. The growth during the Sixth Plan period
would be from expansion, modernization and rehabilitation of existing
plants, while growth in the second half of the decade would stem mostly
from the addition of two new plants of 3.5 million tons and 3.0 million
tons at Vishakapatnam and Paradip, respectively. WB's Economic Report
(paras 3.39-3.40), however, considers these production targets difficult
to achieve in view of the constraints of power shortages and decline in
the quality of coking coal in India, combined with a number of technical
difficulties relating to the quality of raw materials and the choice of
production processes, all of which affect productivity. As a result, it
is likely that net imports of steel will be required through the end of
the Eighties.
2.11    The transport requirements for steel plants comprise raw materials
and finished products. Coal used for steel production process has already
been analyzed in paras,2.06-2.08 of this Annex. Iron ore for steel
production is included in the present analysis, while iron ore for export
is discussed in para.2.18 below. The average haul for raw materials has
remained fairly constant, while that for finished products has increased
gradually in the last two decades. Until the new plants begin operations
towards the end of the eighties, however, no major variations are expected
in average haul. The transportation requirement of the import/export
trade of finished steel has also been taken into account; assuming,
however, that a major portion of the imported steel would be destined for
the urban centers and industrial areas around the main ports (Bombay,
Calcutta and Madras), which would be transported by road. Further, it has
been assumed that modal shares for steel plants would remain fairly
stable. Based on these assumptions, the traffic estimates for 1984/85
range between 16.5 and 17.5 billion ton-kms, and for 1990/91 between 18.5
and 20.5 billion ton-kms, respectively.



-81-
Annex C
Page 7
(iii) Foodgrains
2.12    Agriculture is the mainstay of India's economy, employing over
two-thirds of the labor force. Foodgrains, in turn, dominate the
country's agriculture. The supply/demand balance of foodgrains in recent
years suggests a reduced and possibly eliminated need to import large
quantities of foodgrains, and if present trends continue, India could
become a significant foodgrain exporter. These developments have already
had a profound effect on the country's transport sector, mainly by
lengthening the average haul distances.
2.13    Production of foodgrains between 1967/68, a year of high yields,
and 1977/78, an unusually good year, grew at 2.37% per year. A longer
term trend (1960/61-1978/79) indicates an annual growth of 2.74%. The
Sixth Plan targets imply a substantial acceleration of the growth rate to
about 3.8% per annum. Assuming that the export/import element in the
foodgrain global picture continues shrinking gradually, average haul
distances are expected to continue growing faster than total tonnages due
to a combination of long hauls from the production centers in the North to
all deficit areas including the South, and to a larger proportion of short
to medium loads being captured by road transport. If, as it is also
assumed here, the policy of self-sufficiency for the various regions
continues to meet with success, a reversing trend would occur towards the
second half of the decade--average travel distances would tend to decrease
due to self-sufficiency at regional and national levels, while export of
foodgrains in significant volumes of diversification of agricultural
production, or both, may take place. As a consequence, total traffic
volumes are expected to stagnate. Accordingly, assuming a growth in
foodgrain production ranging from 2.5% to 3.0% p.a., traffic projections
(assuming a decrease in railway share of about 0.5 percentage points per
year) lead to estimated traffic volumes varying from 29.8 to 30.2 billion
ton-kms in 1984/85 and from 33.5 to 35.1 billion ton-kms in 1990/91.
(iv) Petroleum Products (POL)
2.14    Demand for petroleum products rose quite rapidly in India (8.9%
p.a.) between 1950 and 1973, the time of the oil price hike. A substan-
tial increase in the real domestic price of POL after 1973 has moderated
the growth in demand to an average annual rate of 5.1%, between 1973/74
and 1979/80. In 1980/81, consumption was constrained by the labor
petroleum in Assam, which resulted in a loss of production of about 3.5
million tons of crude. During 1981/82 demand grew by about 7%. Estimat-
ing future demand, however, is uncertain because, as individuals and firms
adjust their habits of POL consumption, historical relationships no longer
apply. On the other hand, it is difficult to sharply reduce demand in the
near future because most POL products are used as intermediate products.



-82-
Annex C
Page 8
World Bank estimates a growth of about 7.6% p.a. between 1979/80 and
1984/85.
2.15    The transport picture is also going to be affected by the struc-
ture and regional pattern of production and supply and by the availability
of alternative transport modes. India is largely unexplored regarding
hydrocarbons. The exploration activity undertaken during the Seventies,
however, paid off in the discovery of one giant oil and gas offshore field
(Bombay High) and several smaller commercial fields, both offshore and
onshore. The number of good prospective areas exceeds the number that the
state-owned organizations can reasonably explore during the next five
years; therefore, the Government has recently decided to open selective
prospective areas to foreign exploration firms under production-sharing
contracts. These arrangements will considerably accelerate exploration of
hydrocarbons, although exploitation of any commercial reserves is not
likely to happen until the second half of the eighties at the earliest.
2.16    Crude production in 1981/82 was about 16.4 million tons which
represents a little less than one-half of Indian POL demand. India's
refining capacity, on the other hand, was of 31.8 million tons of through-
put capacity (mttc) in 1980. This is enough to process about 29 million
tons of crude into 27 million tons of petroleum at 90% capacity utiliza-
tion and 93% outturn of products from crude. There is a new refinery
under construction at Mathura, which should being operating in 1981,
adding 6 mttc. Moreover, the Government plans to meet the growing demand
both by expanding existing refineries and by building new ones. The new
refineries would be located at Mangalore (6 mttc) and Karnal (3 mttc).
Altogether, India is expected to have 13 mttc more than at present by
1984/85.
2.17    Concerning transport facilities, in addition to road transport and
existing pipelines, a new pipeline is expected to be commissioned in the
near future, from Bombay High to Mathura, and more pipelines are planned
to be built during the sixties. The share of POL by rail will thus be
reduced, and fairly moderate increases in transport volumes are estimated,
except in the third alternative, where, in addition to an annual rate of
growth of demand of about 7.6% p.a., a smaller reduction in the share of
the railways is assumed. Traffic forecasts range between 11.5 and 12.6
billion-ton-kms in 1984/85 and between 12.4 and 19.4 billion ton-kms by
1990/91.
(v) Iron Ore for Export
2.18    Despite occasional surges in export volumes in a few years in
response to world market conditions, iron ore has presented a stable
pattern of traffic with relatively minor fluctuations from one year to the
next. After experiencing a world-wide slump in demand of iron ore, the



-83-
Annex C
Page 9
market is beginning to recover. On the supply side, a switch of produc-
tion has been completed from lumps to fines to better suit the world
market. Accordingly, a moderate traffic increase has been estimated,
ranging from 7.5 to 7.6 billion ton-kms in 1984/85 and from 7.7 to 7.9
billion ton-kms in 1990/91.
(vi) Cement
2.19    During the past 20 years, India has suffered an almost chronic
shortage of cement. As a result, cement is rationed administratively.
The annual rate of growth of installed capacity averaged about 8.9% during
1950/51-1971/72 and declined to about 2.1% between 1971/72-1978/79 due to
restrictive Government pricing and licensing policies. Production growth,
meanwhile, averaged about 3.7% per year as a result of increases in
capacity utilization between 1971/72 and 1977/78. Thenceforth, capacity
utilization declined, however, from 88% in 1977/78 to less than 75% in
1979/80 and 1980/81. The most critical constraints on the operation of
cement plants were coal and power shortages. In 1981/82 the total produc-
tion was 21.5 million tons an increase of 15% over the previous year.
2.20    India is planning a major expansion of its cement industry from
32.7 million tons of installed capacity in 1981/82 to about 42.5 million
tons in 1984/85. About 80% of the additional capacity will be in new
production units and the remaining 20% will result from expansion of
existing plants. If the investment targets are met, the planned expansion
would roughly meet the projected demand for cement in the next four years,
although shortages are likely to continue for some time.
2.21    These shortages, combined with the necessity to supplement the
domestic production through imports, the concentration of consumption in
the country's northern region, and an increasingly rapid erosion of traf-
fic in the shorter distances, are expected to continue aiding to the
average haul of cement by the railways. Of the three alternatives tested,
the first two (with growth/rates of 3.0% p.a. and 4.0% p.a.) straddle the
average growth in production of cement during the 1971/72-1977/78 period.
The third alternative assumes a jump in production of 7% p.a. between
1980/81-1984/85, followed by 5.5% p.a. through the end of the decade.
Assuming a decrease in railway share of tonnages of about 3% per year, the
total traffic moved by the railways is expected to range from 8.8 billion
ton-kms to 9.9 billion ton-kms in 1984/85 and from 10.5 to 13.7 billion
ton-kms in 1990/91.
(vii) Fertilizer
2.22    The consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers in India increased at
an average annual rate of 22% in the decade 1962-72.  In the next three



-84-
Annex C
Page 10
years, consumption declined. However, as a result of improved agricul-
tural coiLditions and a reduction in the price of nitrogen, consumption
picked up again, resulting in a growth of about 15% p.a. between 1975 and
1980. Phosphatic and potassic fertilizers followed a consumption pattern
similar to nitrogenous fertilizers, but did not begin to recover until
1976/77. By 1981/82, India's total fertilizer consumption was 5.9 million
nutrient tons, of which 67% was nitrogen, 22% phopshates and 11% potash.
2.23    India produces nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers.  Installed
capacity has grown from 0.15 million nutrient tons per year in 1952 to
about 6.8 million in 1981/82. The utilization of available capacity has
been relatively low, however. Although it showed substantial improvements
between 1974/75 and 1978/79, it has declined sharply in 1979/80 and
1980/81, largely as the result of shortages of power, fuel oil and naph-
tha, coupled with equipment and operating problems, particularly in
several of the older public sector plants. In 1981/82 the utilization
improved but the level is still low about 60% of installed capacity. In
1981/82, India produced 3.1 million tons of nitrogenous fertilizers and
0.9 million tons of phosphatic fertilizers.
2.24    The high rates of growth in consumption of fertilizers of recent
years are not sustainable in the long run. Consumption in 1980/81
increased at a more moderate rate of about 6% as a result of price
increases. The installed capacity is expected to increase from 6.9 mil-
lion tons in 1981/82 to 8.5 million tons in 1984/85. Additionally, the
Government is placing considerable emphasis on measures to increase
capacity utilization of existing plants. Even after taking into con-
sideration the large projects underway at Thal and Hazira and those firmly
planned, fertilizer consumption is expected to exceed domestic output
significantly. To estimate future transport demand, fertilizer consump-
tion has been estimated to grow at annual rates of 8.5%, 10.1% and 12.5%
in line with the analysis provided in connection with the Hazira Fer-
tilizer Project. 1/
2.25    Bearing in mind the location of existing and projected plants, and
assuming that the railways' share would continue decreasing by about 3%
annually as the main inter-regional flows are concentrated along the
principal railway corridors, while road transport handles intra-regional
distribution flows, in line with the modal-point transport strategy being
developed by GOI/IR, 2/ railway traffic volumes are projected to reach
1/ Staff Appraisal Report, March 6, 1981. Para.4.08.
2/  Under the Fertilizer Industry Credit, financed partly by IDA, Rail
India Technical and Economic Services Ltd. has carried out a study to
optimize rail fertilizer moverents.



-85-
Annex C
Page 11
between 10.7 and 11.3 billion ton-kms in 1984/85 and from 12.5 to 16.0
billion ton-kms by 1990/91.
(viii) Other Commodities
2.26    In line with a historical pattern of concentration of railway
traffic in the main seven commodities discussed above, the remaining
traffic is estimated to continue decreasing in tonnage. As road transport
continues capturing the shorter distance traffic in these other com-
modities, however, the average haul will increase, leading to a stagnation
or even a small decrease in ton-kms from 41.1 billion in 1980/81 to a
range between 38.0 and 38.3 billion in 1984/85 and their growth between
39.6 and 43.4 billion by 1990/91.
(b) Passengers
(i) Suburban
2.27    The following table summarizes the growth in population and in
suburban railway passenger traffic for the three largest urban centers in
India. 1/
Population              Passengers                 Pass-Km
(Million)               (Billion)                 (Billion)
Year    B       C    M     T      B     C     M      T     B      C     M     T
1951/
1952  3.11  3.30  1.82  8.23  0.28  0.09  0.04  0.41  3.96  2.42  0.45  6.83
1960/
1961  4.15  4.83  2.32 11.30  0.42  0.20  0.06  0.68  6.36  4.61  0.80 11.77
1970/
1971  5.97  7.03  3.17 16.17  0.85  0.27  0.10  1.22 15.12  6.44  1.42 22.98
1977/
1978  7.87  8.19  3.92 19.98  1.32  0.45  0.16  1.93 25.77 11.29  2.37 39.43
Note:  B = Bombay; C = Calcutta; M = Madras; and T = Total.
Source:  Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee, Ministry of Railways.  April, 1980.
Main Report, Volume IV. Statement (Appendix) 6.1.
1/ These statistics, regarding passenger traffic, must be viewed with
some caution since ticketless passengers are not included and their
proportion varies from one city to another and through time, as law
and order deteriorated, particularly in Calcutta.



-86-
Annex C
Page 12
2.28    As shown above, while the population of Bombay, Calcutta and
Madras grew by 3.5% annually between 1951/52 and 1977/78, the total subur-
ban traffic moved by the railways in the three cities increased by 6.1%
per year in terms of number of passengers and by 7.0% annually in terms of
passenger-kms. When analyzed decade by decade, the traffic in passengers
and passenger-kms grew by 5.8% p.a. and by 6.2% p.a. in the fifties, by
6.0% p.a and 6.9% p.a. in the Sixties and by 3.1% p.a. and 8.0% p.a.
between 1970/71 and 1977/78. In 1979/80 the traffic decreased by 10%
(passengers) and 11% (passenger-kms) in the face of fare increases, which
took place in July 1980. The fare increases included a raise of 5% on
passenger traffic up to 100 kms and of 15% on quarterly and monthly season
tickets. Preliminary estimates for 1980/81 indicate a recovery of traffic
growth of about 5% in number of passengers and of 4.8% in passenger-kms
(see Table 3 for total traffic statistics after 1977/78).
2.29    As a result of the spread of urban centers, average lead for the
three cities has increased from 17.3 kms in 1960/61 to 17.8 kms in 1970/71
and then to 20.4 kms in 1977/78. A careful study of the various
parameters having a bearing on suburban passenger traffic (urban popula-
tion, service sectors, land use pattern, per capita income and prices for
railway services) was carried out by the Rail Traffic Enquiry Committee
and they concluded--based principally on urban population growth--with a
projected rate of growth of about 5.8% annually between 1977/78 and
1999/2000, which would increase to around 6.7% annually if the population
increase in the three cities continues growing at the average rate of the
Seventies. Assuming a gradual increase in average lead from 20.4 kms in
1977/78 to 25.1 kms in 1999/2000, the study concludes that the growth in
traffic demand in terms of pass-kms would range from 6.8% annually to 7.9%
annually throughout this period.
2.30    A closer look at the price elasticity of suburban passenger
travel, based on the 1980 experience, suggests that the high growth in
demand could be dampened, by implementing a gradual increase in fares.
Alternatively, it would be necessary to limit the available capacity on
the main suburban corridors, to avoid excessively large investments.
Assuming either of the two solutions, growth in suburban passenger traffic
has been estimated at about 4.5% per year in terms of passengers or 5.1%
per year in terms of passenger-kms, during the period 1980/81-1990/91.
This would generate a total number of around 2,380 million passengers in
1984/85 and 3,100 million passengers in 1990/91 and of 49.5 billion
pass-kms in 1984/85 and 66.8 billion pass-kms in 1990/91.
(ii) Inter-urban
2.31    Inter-urban passenger traffic has grown at an average of about
2.0% per year (in terms of number of passengers) and at 3.3% per year (in



-87-
Annex C
Page 13
passenger-kms) during the last three decades. The rate, however, has
increased gradually, decade after decade. Thus, in the Fifties total
number of passengers and passenger-kms increased by 0.5% p.a. and 1.0%
p.a., respectively; in the sixties they went up by 2.8% p.a. and 3.7%
p.a.; and in the seventies by 2.5% p.a. and 5.3% p.a., respectively.
Hence, only the growth in the total number of passengers decreased some-
what from the sixties (2.8% p.a.) to the Seventies (2.5% p.a.). This
increasing trend reflects mainly the increase in the country's population
throughout the period (the population roughly doubled from about 360
million to some 644 million in these 30 years), the increased economic
activity of the various regions and of the country in general (growth in
GNP) and the ratio of increases in income per capita to increases in
passenger fares. Of all these variables, the Rail Tariff Enquiry Commit-
tee (RTEC) found the best correlation in the case of population and the
service sector.
2.32    Using the population projections for India presented in Table A.9
of previous WB Economic Report, which assume a net reproduction rate of
one in the year 2000, and using the growth rate relationships established
by the RTEC (Appendix 6.7 to Volume IV), the following estimates of
population and inter-urban traffic levels are obtained:
Inter-Urban Passenger Traffic Volumes
Population      Million Passengers            Billion Pass-Kms
Year       (millions)       Si       S2       S3       S1        S2        S3
1980/81       672          1,550*  1,550*  1,550*    159*       159*      159*
1984/85       739          1,720   1,833   1,946      187       202       224
1990/91       803          1,884   2,124   2,377      215       249       303
S1 = Scenario 1; assumes a growth rate relationship based on 1950/51 to
1977/78 long term trends.
S2 = Scenario 2; assumes a growth rate relationship based on 1970/71 to
1977/78 trends.
S3 = Scenario 3; assumes a growth rate relationship based on actual increase
in the relation between 1960/61-1970/71 and 1970/71-1977/78.
*    Provisional figures.
2.33    The figures in the preceding table represent an annual rate of
growth which ranges from 2.6% to 5.9% for total number of passengers and
from 4.2% to 8.9% for passenger kilometers between 1980/81 and 1984/85.
For the entire decade (1980/81-1990/91) these annual rates would vary from



-88-
Annex C
Page 14
2.0% to 4.4% for passengers and from 3.1% to 6.6% for passenger
kilometers.
III. Summary and Conclusions
3.01    Different studies carried out in India in recent years have
arrived at various railway traffic forecasts. As shown in Table B-1,
concerning freight, the 1984/85 World Bank estimates are lower than pre-
vious ones, although not significantly lower than IR's own estimates. The
railway traffic forecast based on macroeconomic considerations (paras.2.01
to 2.04) is somewhat higher, but as indicated before, the results of
applying that methodology are not so accurate. In any case they represent
a small increase in the order of 1-3%.
3.02    Comparing with the upper boundaries suggested by expected GDP
growth (see table in para.2.03 of this Annex C), the Bank's estimates vary
within reasonable limits. The resulting annual rates of growth in terms
of ton-kms range from 2.3 for the low, to 3.1 for the medium and to 4.4
for the high alternative, between 1981/82 and 1984/85. Between 1981/82
and 1990/91, the corresponding annual rates of growth are 2.2%, 3.3% and
4.4%.



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Comparative Projections of Rail Freight Traffic
(Billion Revenue Metric Ton Kilometers)
Reports Prepared For                        1982/83    1984/85       1987/88   1990/91-/       1992/93    1999/2000
1.  Energy Policy Working Group               200         215"         240         -             300          410
2.  National Transport Policy Committee   206-222    226-243"=  260-279            -           320-344      435-468
3.  Railway Corporate Plan                  205-210-/  211-216-    235-240         --                          -
4.  Operating Research Group                               -            -          -              -         368-903- 
5.  Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee             195         214-/        247         -             295          406
6.  Sixth Five Year Plan                        -         220           -          -                           -
co
7.  Indian Railways                            -          203           -         258                         380
8.  World Bank:  Scenario I                     -         175           -         200                          -
Scenario II                  -          179           -         220
Scenario III                 -          186           -         246
Source:  Figures from the report numbers one to five above were taken from the Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee,
Main Report, Volume IV, Statement (Appendix) 6.16; April 1980. All these sources based their
analyses on traffic data before 1978/79. Reports six and seven based their forecasts on more recent
information.
Notes:   1/  These figures have been interpolated to facilitate the comparison.                                               Ml
2/  Relates to 1989/90.
3/  The ORG prepared two alternatives, each consisting of four scenarios.  The figures in the
table indicate the maximum spread.



-90-
Annex D
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Cost Estimates and Principal Items
Included in the Project and Credit
Principal items included in the project and credit and their
estimated costs are summarized in Table D-1 to this Annex. For details
of all cost estimates, types and number of machinery and plant, material
and components, see reports in project files as listed in Annex A.
Additional cost details for DCW are provied in Tables 7 and 8.



-91-
Table D-1
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
---Rs Million --------            -------     US$ Million------------
Proposed
Local 1/  Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign   Total    Credit
Maintenance Improvements
I.    Diesel Component Works
(a) Component Overhaul Shops              50.4        76.5      126.9        5.6       8.5       14.1       8.5
(b) Component Manufacturing Shops        66.8        151.5      218.3        7.4      16.8       24.2      16.8
(c) Locomotive Remanufacturing Shops  35.1            45.0       80.1        3.9       5.0        8.9       5.0
(d) Service Shops                         19.6        32.4       52.0        2.2       3.6        5.8       3.6
(e) Construction and Start-up           211.5          4.0      215.5       23.5       0.4       23.9       0.4
(f) Working Capital                      82.5         82.3      164.8        9.1       9.1       LS-.2      9.1
(g) Technical Assistance and
Training                            4.2         8.4       12.6        0.5       0.9        1.4       1.0
(h) Contingencies
Physical                           34.0        25.0       59.0        3.8       2.8        6.6       2.8
Price                              75.5        80.7      156.2        8.4       9.0       17.4       9.0
Subtotal I                        579.6       505.8   1,085.4        64.4      56.1      120.5      56.2
1I.   Unit Exchange Components
(a) Locomotive Components             1,417.5       632.7   2,050.2        157.5      70.3      227.8      70.3
(b) Wheels and Axles                    562.5    1,340.1   1,902.6          62.5    148.9       211.4      47.7
(c) Price Contingencies                 270.0       337.5       607.5       30.0      37.5       67.5      20.5
Subtotal II                     2,250.0    2,310.3   4,560.3        250.0    256.7       506.7     138.5
III.  AC Locomotive Testing                202.5       405.0      607.5       22.5      45.0       67.5      45.0
Subtotal III                      202.5       405.0      607.5       22.5      45.0       67.5      45.0
IV.   High Capacity Wagons
(a) Material and Components             940.4    1,122.3   2,062.7         104.5    124.7       229.2    124.7
(b) Fabrication                       1,888.8          -     1,888.8       209.9       -        209.9       -
(c) Price Contingencies                 385.8        182.7      568.5       42.8      20.3       63.1      20.3
Subtotal                        3,215.0    1,305.0   4,520.0        357.2    145.0       502.2    145.0
V.    Technical Assistance
and Training
(a) Bogie Testing                         12.6        18.0       30.6        1.4       2.0        3.4       2.4
(b) Fuel Conservation and Train
and Operation Improvements         54.0        56.7      110.7         6.0       6.3      12.3       9.9
Subtotal V                         66.6        74.7      141.3        7.4       8.3       15.7      12.3
Total Project Cost                6,313.7    4,600.8  10,914.5         701.5    511.2    1,212.7    397.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan           -           27.0        27.0        -         3.0         3.0      3.0
GRAND TOTAL                       6,313.7    4,627.8  10,941.5         701.5    514.2    1,215.7   '400.0
1/ Taxes and Duties of about Rs 1,800 million (US$200 million) are
included in local costs.
Source: IR and Mission Estimates
Septembex 1982



Annex E
Page 1
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
DETAILS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. DCW
The capital and production financial costs have been adjusted by
excluding from the former, custom duties and price contingencies and by
deducting excise duties and sales taxes from the production costs. Also,
foreign costs have been estimated using a rate of exchange of
US$1 - Rs 10. These adjustments represent a reduction of 21.5% in capital
costs and 11.2% in production costs.
The economic benefits were derived by determining the CIF value of
equivalent imported parts and components to those which will be produced
by DCW with two adjustments: (i) about one-third of DCW's total produc-
tion, in value, has not been thus valued, since it will be used as input
into the remanufacturing of diesel locomotives; and (ii) the operating
efficiency of the plant in producing parts and components has been conser-
vatively assumed to be about 40% in the first year of operation, 60% in
the second year and 85% thereafter. A separate computation was carried
out to measure the benefits of locomotive remanufacturing. In this case,
it was estimated that the remanufactured locomotive would have a cost
equivalent to 70% of the border price of a new one. As explained in Table
D-1, this cost is lower than the price at which US remanufacturers sell
their locomotives (recent market quotations range around 80% of the price
of a new one). It is noteworthy that a remanufactured locomotive incor-
porates new technological improvements and it is normally guaranteed by
the remanufacturer as if it were new. Further, it was assumed that DCW's
operating efficiency in loco remanufacturing would reach 20% the first
year, 60% the second year and 85% over the remainder of the economic life
of the plant.
B. Unit Exchange System
The economic costs of this project have been determined by exclud-
ing custom duties and price contingencies from the financial costs. Also,
foreign costs have been estimated using a rate of exchange of
US$1 = Rs 10. This entails a reduction of 27% in total costs. Further, a
salvage value of 20% has been assumed at the end of the economic life of
main assets (10 years).
Although the nature of economic benefits to be expected from this
project element is relatively simple to establish, the magnitude of such
benefits is considerably more difficult to estimate. The concept of unit
exchange system has been introduced too recently to have reliable results.
Moreover, similar benefits can be obtained through better management of
maintenance and operations and through more advanced design of motive



-93-
Annex E
Page 2
power and rolling stock, all of which are expected to improve under ongo-
ing projects, including the proposed one. Accordingly, in the present
analysis, minimum improvements in maintenance and operations are assumed,
to obtain a base estimate of the economic merits of this project com-
ponent. The rate of return thus obtained is, therefore, an indication of
the minimum return which could be reasonably expected from from this
investment.
Benefits have been classified into three major categories: (i)
reduction in maintenance time of locomotives and rolling stock; (ii)
increased reliability of motive power; and (iii) better utilization of
rolling stock. The benefits due to increased availability of locomotives
and rolling stock have been based on an improvement of only two days per
year for locos and one day per year for rolling stock. Benefits due to
increased reliability would result in a average overhaul improvement in
utilization of rolling stock of about 4% and of motive power of 1%.
C. High Capacity Wagons
The economic costs were obtained by deducting customs duties and
price contingencies from the financial estimates. As in all other cases,
the foreign cost was estimated using an exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 10.
These adjustments result in an economic cost about 23% less than the
financial cost.
The main benefits consists of savings in total transport costs of
minerals owned by unit train. According to the information supplied by IR
and the updated economic cost data regarding transportation of coal and
other minerals, contained in the May 1980 Report of the National Transport
Policy Committee, the transport costs per ton-km without the project (e.g.
using the existing box wagons) would amount to about 19.0 Paise (USc
2.11), while economic costs per ton-km using the new high capacity wagons
would be about 15.21 Paise (USc 1.69). Furthermore, savings in faster
turnaround and decreased maintenance of wagons have also been incor-
porated. In this regard, it has been assumed that unit trains using the
new equipment would be assigned to the longer runs (650 km average lead)
and that turnaround time would be reduced to five days on average, from
the present seven to nine days.



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT II
Cost/Benefit Streams For Economic Rate of Return of DCW
(Rs Million)
CAPITAL COST                              PRODUCTION COST                          ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                             NET
Financial        Adjust-     Adjusted      Financial         Taxes &     Adjusted        Spares &        Remanufactured         TOTAL      ECONOMIC       BENEFIT
YEARS            Cost            ments         Cost           Cost          Duties         Cost       Assemblies         Locomotives           COSTS      BENEFITS        STREAM
1982/83          74.3             3.2          71.1           0              0             0              0                  0                  71.1         0            -71.1
1933/34         244.1           40.3          203.8           0               0            0              0                  0                 203.8         0           -203.8
1984/85         434.0          124.5          309.5         245.0           27.4         217.6           75.2               73.9               527.1       149.1         -378
1985/86         333.1           65.1          268           294.0           32.9         261.1          100.8              277.2               529.1       378.0         -151.1
1986/87           0              0              0           294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               261.1       520.0          258.9
1987/88           0              0              0           294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               261.1       520.0          258.9
1988/89           0              0              0           294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               261.1       520.0          258.9
1989/90           0              0              0           294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               261.1       520.0          258.9
1990/06           0              0              0           294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               261.1       520.0          258.9
2006/07                                      (85.2)         294.0           32.9         261.1          150.4              369.6               175.9       520.0          344.1
Economic Rate of Return:  24.0%
Notes
(1)  The financial capital costs have been adjusted by excluding price contingencies and custom duties, while foreign costs have been
estimated at US$ I = Rs 10. The overall effect is a reduction of 21.5Z in the total plant cost.
(2)  Excise duty and sales tax on operating raw materials and supplies have been eliminated, as has the generation tax on electric
power. The net effect is a reduction of 11.2% in production costs.
(3) Prices of spare parts, assemblies and subassemblies have been eliminated as the C.I.F. value of imported goods. The value of
parts and assemblies which constitute an input to the remanufacturing of locomotives have been excluded from the Spares and
Assemblies column.  They represent around 33% of DCW's total output valued at border prices.
(4)  For remanufactured locomotives, which are normally guaranteed as if they were new, recent prices in the USA from reputable  - 
industries (not owned by locomotive manufacturers or railroad companies) are around 80% of the manufacturers' new price
for the same locomotive. Therefore, conservatively the benefit of DCW's locomotive remanufacturing has been set at 70Z
of the C.I.F. price of an equivalent new locomotive.



INDIAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION CHART
|MINISTRY OF RAILWVAYSl
MINISIER FOR RAILWAYS
MINISTER OF STATE FOR RAILWAYS
RAILWAY BOAFRD
CHAIRMAN_
1. FINANCE
2. MECHANICAL
3. E LECTR ICA L
4. INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
.1. HEALTH
OFFICERS ON SPECIAL DUTY
1. PROJECTS AND PRODUCTION UNITS
2. COMMERCIAL
DIRECTORS                                ZONAL RAILWAYS                               MANUFACTURING UNITS              PROJECTS                           RESEARCH. DESIGNS AND
1 ACCOUNTS                              GENERAL MANAGERS                             GENERAL MANAGERS                 GENERAL MANAGERS                   STANDARDS ORGANIZATION.
2 CIVIL ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                      LUCKNOW
3. EFFICIENCY BUREAU                    1. CENTRAL RAILWAY, BOMBAY                   1. CHITTARANJAN-                 1. CONSTRUCTION,
4. ESTABLISHMENT                        2. EASTERN RAILWAY. CALCUTTA                   LOCOMOTIVE WORKS                  SOUTHERN RAILWAY.               1 DIRECTOR GENERAL
5. FINANCE (BUDGET)                     3. NORTHERN RAILWAY. NEW DELHI                 CHITTARANJAN                      BANGALORE
B. MECH. ENGINEERING                    4. NORTH EASTERN RLY., GORAKHFUR             2. DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE WORKS,       2 METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT
7. MECH. ENGG. IWORKSHOP)               S. NORTHEAST FRONTIER RLY.                     VARANASI                          PROJECT (RAILWAYS)
B. METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT                 MALIGAON (GAUHATI)                         3. INTEGRAL COACH FACTORY,          CALCUTTA
B. RAILMOVEMENT                         B. SOUTHERN RAIYLWAY MADRAS                    MADRAS                         3 WHEEL AND AXLE PLANT
10. RAILWAY PLANNING                     7. SOUTH CENTRALGRAILWAY,SECUNDERABAD                                           IIRWAL
11. RAILWAY STORES                       B. SOUTHEASTERN RAILWAY, CALCUTTA            .                                  BANGALORE
12. SAFETY AND COACHING                  B. WESTERN RAILWAY. BOMBAY                                                    4. WORKSHOP MODERNIZATION
13, SECURITY                                                                                                             ICOFMOWI
14. SIGNAL AND TELE. COMMUNICATIONS                                                                                      DELHI
15. STATISTICS AND ECONOMICS                                                                                           S. DIESEL COMPONENT WORKS
1B. TRAFFIC COMMERCIAL                                                                        AOCWT
17. TRAFFICTTRANSPORTATION                                                                                               PATIALA
lB. VIGILANCE
OTHE RS
1. ECONOMIC ADVISER
2. LEGAL ADVISER
World B-nk - 18812



ADI/                                                                       INDIA
/ sFFICEr                               A RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT 11
/ t   <<                        \    ~~~~~~DIESEL COMPONENT WORKS (DCVV) PROPOSED LAYOUT
t/g   /        I       S          i      hRO    I SHO
/ ///     _ |  ___ _L ___]        _J, CFNTRAL
/ / ~~HEAT-  '  I                         t- e    STORES\
t O < /)  /__  _______ ._  L            1__  J OFFICE               ~~~~CYL. LINER SHOP\
,                          ,    AUX  i    t   td X ;1          1     l>~~~~~~~L  CANK SHAFT 
SHOP  Dis                 I          BLOCK           My
PANT              0-                     SHI |TATONP  D        ABEVAIN
-- -- ROADX  OM   X I                                                       SOP         D SHOP                UBBLRTSHO
| |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. SHOP BIDNSxt   A.LBRTR
Es-   I                                       COM5COMUNSATON
T                                                       Wol Bank22B7



INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT 11
DIESEL COMPONENT WORKS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
RAILWAY BOARD
CHIEF
ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICER
MECHANICAL        l                    l    PERSONNEL    l l           STORES                         CIVIL                                   FINANCE
AND|ELECTRICAL                                AND STAFFING              PURCHASE                    CONSTRUCTION                              CONTROLLER
FINANCIAL ADVISER
CHIEF PROJECT OFFICER/                                                                                                                               AND
CHIEF MECHANICAL ENGINEER                                                                                                                              CHIEF
ACCOUNTS OFFICER
CONTROLLER OF STORES/
ADDITIONAL CONTROLLER
OF STORES
DEPUTY             DEPUTY               DEPUTY                 DEPUTYI/                                                TEPYTY                                  DVINANCIAL
CHIEF              CHIEF                CHIEF           CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE                                           CHIEF                                CHIEF ACCOUNTS
MECHANICAL         MECHANICAL           ELECTRICAL                OFFICER                                               ENGINEER                                  OFFICER
ENGINEER           ENGINEER             ENGINEER
I~~~~~~~~~~~I
SENIOR                               EXECUTIVE                        SENIOR
SENIOR              SENIOR             ELECTRIC                                           STORES            EXECUTIVE           ENGINEER                       ACCOUNTS
MECHANICAL  MECHANICAL       POWER SUPPLY                                         OFFICER,*          ENGINEER            DESIGNOFIE
MECHANICAL          MECHANICAI|| L                                                                                                                                OFFICER t
ENGINEER            ENGINEER           SUB-STATION                                        PURCHASE
SPECIFICATIONS
MACHINERY            LAYOUT                                                                                                      ASSISTANT
REQUIREMENT            PLANT                                                                                                      ENGINEER              FINANCE             ACCOUNTS
SPECIFICATIONS       ABSTRACT                                                                                                       DESIGN
ABSTRACT           ESTIMATES
ESTIMATES
CONSTRUCTION
1/ Office of Deputy Chief Administrative Officer also will be responsible for personnel and staffing                      SPECIFICATIONS
and will be exepnded after completion of process engineering                                                         ABSTRACT ESTIMATES
World Bank - 22871
May 1981



-9B-
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT 11
Implementation Schedule
1982         1983        1984         1985         1986
A.  2  3C     1 2  4  1     2 3 4   1  2  3 4  1  2  3  4
A. DCW/UNIT EXCHANGE
Diesel Component Works
Detail Process Engineering                     _ _         _   _   _  _
Final Project Report7
Plant Construction .
Procurement                                                                                                  -
Recruitment and Training
Equipment Installation
Production Build Up                                                     _
Unit Exchange
Locomotive Component Procurement                                   T
Wheels and Axle Procurement                                          i_
B. AC LOCOMOTIVE TESTINGJ
Purchase of Prototypes
Issue Request for Proposals                                        
Review Proposals
Recommendations for Purchase and
Place Orders
Receive Prototypes
Testing
Prepare Testing Proposal
Review of Proposal and Prepare
Final Test Plan
Place Orders for Test Equipment and
Test Car
Receive Test Equipment and Test Car
Testing of Prototypes
C. HIGH CAPACITY WAGONS
Specifications                                        _
Tendering
Contract Awards
Delivery
Fabrication
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
DCVV
Bogie Testing
Train Operation and Fuel Efficiency       _
J See Annex II of agreed minutes.
September 1982                                                                                                        World Bank-24329



,7Co        (,     .7   _                                        PO'                                                             sPA'
(                        '- 1.                        Aps<ioaisr Poise'
DEM. REP, OF             >         '-,                                           - as lndieA 0<
AFGHANISTAN X                              ,                                                     A<iWs,                                     INDIA
J   - S   V I 41irdtR A  I L W   A Y S
7              \ -   ~~~~~~~Appsss'nreI msl  of Cssiis  <.   J
9            '                                 f~~~'
X~~~~~~~~~~~os                               o- /E    ,-
T-  ItQ'               A
Amr tra
30'                                                            Kss                <                                       C   H   I N   A                           Appr-iasa 25<--                3C-
jX   . I  ,>  A,l,as reirudull                                                               as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ild-ct1d by Ijd,,
PAKISTAN                       .                            Hsss    7                 >
-2Cv bli o owcgh~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                 ,                                        Ak ssirsis Rdhs          j                 I)ceC        
Vlop    rsc ss3{- ii  Psop                            oN oV~i                        L o_ B S                                                                       S 
bombcv VT gb b tlwno-ll dX ode,l^mD~~'~                                            flt                            -a                      /              -
(ioss   ~   ~  Pr'<a~                      \-s.~s                                        (/'BHUTAN   - --
-aaa     5.Sh  Ns                        \ g .;v_   
2C'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ad-                                                                 '
-d    I-d u  t' Ga   -a                ss  >i       505<-                    p>
b-,,',~~~~~ To .b                                      6       T        Komc 
Mprm09 j>0+o^C9  TG<ntcy |  ./   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                o    Selected Stations
. Dcndl a H s-eao?                                             i&soIs<          I     rod Gauge
=  z. .~, .;  . .   -+s,\<Ch r 1  4   o \ Civdor                                           '   Meter Gouge
i 91.U. T;                                                               N 9e^ifurdo Narrowt,   Gajuge
-,   Ad^ascelorea   cs+f 9arga>  gTro e cra                     BROAD GAUGE               METER
2  7    /-        zo1arp-)f5   2    .  AisssisiAC 'JGAUGE
soE                             sss's _'                     ~ /oASecttons Electrified as of January 1981
/-         h   {       v     r\iss                           .                                            E>ectrificotion Schemes in Progress
Asissjoso                     Opj \   'sLor                                              .Cost-Cum,^ Fea=s sfbifi  Survey Completed
0  |   ~ ~ ~~~~lnaSu wrr 7~~~~~~~~~                                                   200         40            60            80
:     '                  i)     1~~~0  00    2Gf70      300       40O     500G-_
Thl                                                       ~~LANKA                                                  MILES                                                          <jA
Plhrdrps6rprta iat    \h  JaFlnm ssbs1tKdiNs   i 0t                                   ,os       ,o sT oe
ba  d4 shswthr mp D rPtIaly.spl tersspd h  ad8rc  /Aji          aN                  .sss                            C'i ,                                                  BURM                  r
cr,   Sa biddhsa'isi                 P. '<o ,'   a,  assrioi                       $,                       :                  :     rtt.;   a






IBRD 13490R1
70'     (-0-                                                                                         90-                         OCTOBER 1982
INDIA
DEM. REP. OF                                         r                                                    RAILWAYS
AFGHAN.STANI                                                    DEPOTS, SHEDS, WORKSHOPS,
MANUFACTURING AND REMANUFACTURING UNITS
3'      ~              Of . 't'f'l \  ppf           Appr-,  Garde,
-   -J                  m as /ndi'S ped by inala
A,  ema-db,  Chom~
(GAMRtTSAR                       M      bC
30'                                   PATIALA     KALKA                                C   H   I NO A A
PAKISTAN                                 On PAsTlcALwAI     *fKHANALAM                      NId,,,ted by IndiJ
/                        PURA        /          'N
MORADABAD)                                                                                     )
y.           SHAKA BASTIL DELHI  IZATNAGARN              &                                          b China  I5
S --IKANER          TUGHLAKA3AD- AC a                            
*JAIPUR                  GONDA        '- /                                   T       .L_,' 
LUCKNOW Be ALAMRAGH                                           NGAGDGRINEAON"--
JODHPUR          AJMER                   L        CHAROAGH  SGORAKHPUR                    JAL                   GAIGAN UHATI  .(
JHANSI     KSAMASTIPUR i
O KOTA                      VARANASI                   ,JAMALPUR.           ' -
OUDAIPUR                       A~~~~~~~(LeC  Ai A  ~      JMLU
'- >   R $   *UDAIPUR                            LMMUGHALSARAI                                                /
*ABU ROAD                                                                CHITTARANJAN-'N
OMORVI                ARATLAM          NEW KATNI is A            PATRATU,&  ASANSOL @ANDAKANCHRAL.r
OJAMNAGAB       ~ODHOND                                                          BURDWAN'JA   JANCHAPAR
DJAMNAGAR        PRATAPNAGAR          STARSI                               TATANAGAR t, L          LLBELIA-GHATA
* BHAVNAGAR                                          BILASPURE                   NIMPURA  0      CALCUTTA
JUNAGADH                                                                     1A      KHARAGPUR)
GNAGPUR      BRAIPUR
-20-                         NASIK,    MA"BHUSAWAL                    A ABHILAI                                                            BURMA
20'
BANDRA  e ATUNGA
-*^GPARELIim-P
KALYAN AWADI BUNDER
OKURDUWADI           AKAZIPET
WALTAIR A
iLALLAGUDA              55
SECUNDERABAD5
GUNTAPALLI a
VIJAYAWADA E
O HUBLI
A GOOTY
Proposed Reronufocturing Unit
O   Remonufacturing Units
e PERAMBURlessI                       a  Depots
BANGALORE a             G PERAMBURBFIcl
1-WA)                SOMADRAS                                   Workshops & Manufocturing Units
*MYSORE                                                   A   Diesel Sheds
A Electric Sheds
ERODE
A
105                                      GOLDEN ROCKQ
N                                                                     0        200       4D0       600        800
L         I         L 
KILOMETERS
S RI                            0      100     200     300      400     500
MILES
Th's map has been prepared bV M e Wartd Banks Staff ectaseev ha, the eaaeasnes  L A N K A
oft na readere of he reper! lo erb,h it a eresetted IOta dene,,et,oeati med sad she
he-edane-  bo-  an tth,,nap dep - s ePi,   thet ea a- f the W r. miskaert sd
a,-ep-e oeofanh bo-darrs                                 80g                                                90



