Report No. PIC476
Project Name        Albania-Tax Administration Modernization Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Public finance
Project ID                ALPA8272
Implementing Agency       Government of Albania
Ministry of Finance
Customs Department and Tax Department
Tirana, Albania
Contact: Vice Minister of Finance
Telephone:      355-42-283 73
Fax:           355-42-283 73
Date PID Prepared         January  1994
Appraisal Date            November 1993
Projected Board Date      May 1994
Objectives
1.   The project objective is to assist the authorities to sustain and
enhance revenue collection in the short-term and to improve tax and
customs administration in the long-term. This is to be achieved by
institutional and technological strengthening of administrative units in
charge of national taxes. The strategy includes defining the roles of
the departments involved in these tasks, strengthening collection and
taxpayer auditing areas, improving taxpayer services, preparing for the
implementation of a Value Added Tax (VAT), as well as improving the
efficiency of the Customs Department.
Description
2.   The proposed project is designed to address existing constraints
and to improve tax and customs administration. It would include
technical assistance to develop and implement procedures in critical
areas such as the collection system, detection and control of non-filers
and non-payers, improving of auditing procedures, developing of a Value
Added Tax (VAT), as well as customs control, transit and entry
procedures. The project would include the following components: (i)
technical assistance to the Tax Department; (ii) technical assistance to
the Customs Department; (iii) training; and (iv) purchase of equipment
and materials for both administrations. Technical assistance, the major
project component, would account for about 60- of project costs.
3.   Technical Assistance to the Tax Department.   The project would
finance experts to help implement agreed measures to sustain revenue
collection and to reorganize the Tax Department. It would assist in
refining the role and organization of tax administration, designing and
implementing a system to use tax identification numbers, simplifying the
payment of turnover tax, developing a ledger card system for the
different taxes, developing an audit plan, and developing and
introducing the VAT. The project would also support the implementation,
on a pilot basis, of a computer-based system for monitoring compliance



with basic filing and payment obligations for all taxes.     Under the
project, a pilot unit will be established in Tirana to focus on those
taxpayers liable to pay VAT and the first system application to be
developed will focus on VAT.
4.   Technical Assistance to the Customs Department.     This component
would include support to define the role and organization of the Customs
Department and of the Financial Police, introduce reporting procedures
for duty paid, improve customs entry processing and procedures for the
payment of duty, and expand and improve internal audit practices.
5.   Training.   Provision is made under the project for basic training
for tax officers, including audit training, VAT training and computer
training. Training for the Customs Department is being provided
primarily by EC-PHARE through a regional program. Some additional
training will be included in the project to complement this effort.
6.   Equipment.  A limited number of computers and office equipment will
be provided under the project for the Tirana pilot unit and for general
administrative purposes for the Tax Department. Vehicles will be
provided for the transportation of both Customs and Tax officials and
some detection machines and other equipment is included in the project
for the Customs Department.
Implementation
7.   The project would be implemented over three years.    The directors
of the Tax and Customs Departments would be responsible for implementing
those activities within their own jurisdiction, reporting to the Deputy
Minister of Finance. Both Departments would receive support from the
Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance in regard to
project administration and monitoring. In addition, the Government has
selected the IMF to manage and assist in the implementation of the
technical assistance and training components. This includes the
appointment of a resident advisor for the Tax Department and a resident
advisor for the Customs Department. A Project Preparation Advance of
US$0.5 million has been approved to finance these early appointment of
these advisors and to start preparations for the implementation of the
VAT.
Cost and Financing
8.   The project cost is estimated at US$4.4 million equivalent, of
which the Association would finance about US$4 million equivalent.
About 18% would be used for technical assistance to the Customs
Department, and about 40% to the Tax Administration.    About % would be
used for vehicles for both administrations.   The balance (about 17%)
would be used for equipment, primarily computers for the Tax
Administration. About US$0.2 million, under the umbrella of this
project, is expected to be provided by the EC for training for the
Customs Department.
Environmental Aspects
9.   Environmental assessment Category C.   This technical assistance
-2 -



project is unlikely to have any environmental impact.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:      This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



