Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20599
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26460; PPFI-P8370)
ON A
TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.83 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
December 21, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 11/99)
Currency Unit = Albanian Lek
Lek 100 = US$ 0.75
US$ 1.00 = 134
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CD              Customs Directorate
DBA             Database Administrator
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
FP              Financial Police
GDT             General Directorate of Taxes
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
IT             Information Technology
MOF             Ministry of Finance
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
TAMP            Tax Administration Modernization Project
TIN             Taxpayer Identification Number
VAT             Value Added Tax
Y2K             Year 2000
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ilene Photos



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                              1
2. Principal Perfonnance Ratings                                             1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry   2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                      3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                        9
6. Sustainability                                                           10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                            11
8. Lessons Learned                                                          12
9. Partner Comments                                                         13
10. Additional Infonnation                                                  13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                        14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                        15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                        17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                        18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components        19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                           20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                       21
Annex 8. Government Contribution to ICR                                     22
Annex 9. Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission                                        27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008272                                       Pro ect Name: TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.
Team Leader: Ilene Photos                                 TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-26460;
PPFI-P8370
CountryIDepartment: ALBANIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/15/93                                Effective: 10/15/94           01/25/95
Appraisal.  09/15/93                                  MTR: 05/01/96              05/14/98
Approval:  07/26/94                                Closing: 06/30/97            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIAIMINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Christiaan Poortman                       Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager.      Pradeep Mitra                             Kemal Dervis
Team Leader at ICR:   Ilene Photos                             Hiran Herat
ICR Primary Author:  Ilene Photos
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Albania Tax Administration Modernization Project (TAMP) was to assist the
authorities to sustain and enhance revenue collection in the short-term and to improve tax and customs
administration in the long-term. This was to be achieved through institutional and technological
strengthening of administrative units in charge of national taxes, with a focus on the establishment of Value
Added Tax (VAT) collection nationwide. Expected results were:
Establishment of two VAT pilot units in Tirana and Durres.
Registration of domestic VAT taxpayers: originally estimated at about 2000 in Tirana
and 500 in Durres.
Training of tax agents to implement the VAT.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's original objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Component                   Cost          Rating
Directorate of Taxes        $1,836,000.00    S
Customs Directorate          $908,000.00    S
Establishment of pilot units  $1,680,000.00    S
3.4 Revised Components:
The main components of the project were not revised. Rather, once the original activities of the
project were completed, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed (approved in July 1998), to allow
the use of project savings for other priority activities which had been discussed during earlier missions with
both the Bank and the Fund. The following additional activities had been planned when the project
restructuring was approved by the RVP in July 1998.
Refurbishment of six District Tax Offices (Shkoder, Elbasan, Korce, Lushnje, Fier, and Vlore).
Upgrading of VAT software application
Purchase of hardware and installation of VAT software for the six selected district offices
Training of staff in district offices to use computerized system
Construction of annex to Tirana branch tax office
Purchase of additional hardware for large taxpayer unit
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (i) successful experience and lessons
learned under the pilot operations, and (ii) the demonstrated capacity of the irnplementing agency which
was able, in the last year of the project and with minimal external support, to implement the VAT systerns
rollout and related training to six district offices.
Project preparation was Bank-led, but the process had the full involvement of Government
officials. Overall project design was satisfactory, based on a realistic assessment of the capacity of the
Albanian counterpart. At the start of the project, three resident advisors were financed to support project
implementation and train counterparts, particularly at the start-up when Albania did not have much
experience in donor-assisted projects.
A QAE review was not conducted at the time of project preparation.
-2-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the TAMP's objective is judged to be satisfactory.
The credit was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on July 26, 1994, and became effective
January 25, 1995. As noted above, the project objective was to assist the authorities to sustain and
enhance revenue collection in the short-term and to improve tax and customs administration in the
long-term by providing technical assistance, training, and equipment to the Tax and Customs Departments.
This was to be achieved through institutional and technological strengthening of administrative units in
charge of national taxes. Major expectations of the project included implementation of the VAT, supported
by modem tax administration procedures and computerization in the two pilot offices, disbanding the
financial police and integrating them into the tax and customs administrations, and implementation of
control measures for customs and development of plans for its modernization, including computerization.
The Albanian Government set out to accomplish in a very short time what normally can only be achieved
over a much longer period, i.e., to create a modem tax administration. Moreover, external factors, such as
the civil unrest after the crash of the pyramid schemes and the temporary isolation of the country during the
Kosovo crisis, were to intervene, seriously impeding project implementation. The Government however
persisted, and, although much remains to be done, has succeeded in implementing the first stages of a
modem revenue service, and in fact exceeded expectations of piloting the VAT by implementing the new
procedures and automated systems in eight rather than two district offices as originally planned.
The Tirana and Durres VAT pilot units have operated on a functional basis, implementing a
computer-based system for monitoring compliance with basic tax obligations, and at the end of the project
succeeded in serving as the model for expansion of the VAT systems and procedures to the six other
districts. The VAT was to be the first tax to be collected under the new model, after which the plan had
been to extend the system to other taxes in the two pilot units. The expansion of the system to cover other
major centers was to be decided after evaluation of the results achieved in the pilots. After successful
establishment and operation of the pilot units, however, the IMF and the Bank supported the Government's
decision in 1997 to expand the VAT systems to six other large districts in Albania. The original plan to
expand the system to other taxes at the pilot units was set aside because the Government wanted to
continue rapidly with its modernization effort, and it would not have been able to automate other taxes in
the short term for several reasons, not the least of which were the fact that new legislation would have to be
drafted and software for the other taxes would take time to design. It was also clear that a greater revenue
collection effectiveness was to be expected from broadening the base of the systems-supported collection of
VAT. At that time it was thought that the rollout of the VAT systems would take no more than 12-18
months, however disturbances in 1997 and 1999 diverted Government attention and slowed project
implementation, eventually requiring extensions of the credit closing date (see details in Part 5).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Directorate of Taxes: Tax Administration Reforms and VAT
The reform of the Albanian tax system was based on the principles on which lasting tax reforms
are built: simple and transparent legislation, taxpayer self-assessment, timely and accurate taxpayer
information, simple procedures, dedication of the majority of resources to high revenue transactions and the
large taxpayers, fair penalties, and the provision for taxpayer appeals. The institutional strengthening
activities for the General Directorate of Taxes (GDT) defined under the project (Schedule 2 of DCA) were
(i) to define the role and organization of the tax department and its relationship to the financial police; (ii)
- 3-



to design and implement a system to use social security numbers for tax administration; (iii) to improve the
ledger card system; (iv) to develop an audit plan; and (v) to introduce the Value Added Tax.
i.    Role and organization of the GDT. Advisory services assisted the GDT to define its role and
organization based on the principle that an effective tax administration requires coordination of a number
of closely linked tasks within a single tax administration. An important aspect of this was the need to
disband the Financial Police (FP) which numbered 1200, larger than the combined resources of the tax and
customs services. Major coordination and communication problems existed as well as overlapping and
duplicated responsibilities between the FP and both tax and customs administrations. Moreover, the
operations of the FP could be seen by foreign investors as inconsistent with the development of a market
economy, and at the same time as undermining the authority of the tax and customs agencies. In 1995, the
Government decreased their number to 900, disbanded the FP as an independent agency and created Tax
and Customs Police whose field activities are under the direct supervision of the GDT and the Customs
Department. The Government is considering a proposal to change the current arrangement. The IMF is
working with the Government to clarify the role of the FP under this new proposal.
U.    Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). The original plan had been to use the social insurance
identification number for tax identification purposes, however the Institute of Social Insurance did not
allocate identification numbers to employers rapidly enough for the introduction of the VAT. For this
reason, a TIN was introduced in May 1995 for the tax and customs administrations' use for the VAT, with
the intention of using it eventually for other taxes. The use of the TIN has not been expanded as yet to the
other taxes which continue to use the fiscal code.
W.    Manual Ledger Card System. At the start of the tax reforms, it would have been impossible to
develop computer programs in the short term. For this reason, a ledger card system was developed as the
basis for accounting of turnover, withholding and profits taxes and excise revenues received. The system
also allowed tax offices to implement stopfiler and delinquent account action, and, when computerized,
would facilitate the analysis for selection of returns for audit. The ledger card system was introduced in
1995, on a computerized basis in six offices and on a manual basis in the others.
iv.    Audit. An Audit Plan was developed under which VAT audits were undertaken by the audit
section in the VAT units. An audit manual was developed and training on the guidelines for VAT auditing
was provided to auditors. Monthly reports from the district offices allow the Head Office to monitor the
audit program. When the VAT was first introduced, auditors conducted advisory visits, as part of the
taxpayer education campaign, aimed at providing advice on invoicing and bookkeeping, and VAT
filing/payment obligations. In 1999 it was decided to combine all direct and indirect audit activity under a
single section in the district offices, but dissatisfaction with this structure has resulted in the VAT unit
reverting to separate audits, with the rest of the tax administration likely to follow suit. Although the
auditors have tertiary qualifications in financial or business studies and the credit financed training
seminars by international specialists in 1998 and 1999, the quality and skills of the auditors remain
relatively low. A significant continuing education effort to increase auditors' skills will be needed.
v.    Introduction of the VAT: See component 3 below.
- 4 -



Component 2. Customs Directorate (CD)
The institutional strengthening activities for the Customs Directorate defined under the project
(Schedule 2 of DCA) were (i) to define the role and organization of the customs department and its
relationship to the financial police; (ii) to introduce reporting procedures for all goods imported into the
Borrower's territory; (iii) to improve customs entry procedures; (iv) to introduce a guarantee system for
transit of goods; (v) to expand and improve internal audit; and (vi) to prepare the computerization of
customs procedures. A brief description of achievements appears below. In 1997, the Minister of Finance
asked the Bank to focus its assistance (and the project) on tax administration because other donors were
stepping in to assist Customs. In any case, the measures foreseen under the TAMP had, for the most part,
already been implemented by this time.
i.     Role and organization of the Customs Directorate. The Customs Directorate implemented a
new organizational structure, including a functional organization, simplification of customs procedures,
development of a customs procedures guide, strengthening of the internal audit and internal control function
and a clear definition of the new organization within Customs responsible for enforcement. (Government
actions with regard to the financial police were described above.)
ii.    Reporting procedures. A control system was introduced which requires that goods be reported, in
all cases, to a customs office. Goods are not released from customs control until a declaration is lodged
with payment of duties and taxes or, for goods in transit, a guarantee is lodged with Customs.
iii.    Customs entry procedures. A self-declaration process is in place. Customs legislation provides
for penalties to be applied for intentional misdeclarations.
iv.    Guarantee system for transit of goods. A well-functioning guarantee system was put in place on
June 10, 1994. A further recommendation had been made to develop and implement a financial guarantee
system for customs brokers, to replace the brokers personal guarantee system that has been established.
v.    Improvement of internal audit. Control checks are carried out by the headquarters departments
responsible for their particular areas of responsibility (e.g., nomenclature and valuation). Each customs
office has an audit control department responsible for reviewing all declarations, but no independent
internal audit organization reporting to the General Director was established.
vi.    Preparafion for computerization of customs procedures. Rationalized manual procedures were
implemented, although further simplification would be required to support computerization. Funding had
been secured from EU Phare for the development and implementation of the ASYCUDA system, but the
collapse of the pyramid schemes and the civil disturbances interrupted that plan. In June 1997, the EU
Customs Assistance Mission started operations in Albania to assist Customs to improve its collections in
the short term and, in the medium term, to support Customs' modernization and rehabilitation effort.
Throughout the project period, Customs has continued to use the PC Trade system it had at the
start of the project. In preparation for VAT introduction, the credit had financed adjustments to the
software to allow data entry of the new Taxpayer Identification Number that the software could not
previously accommodate.
The project recently became involved again with Customs in response to a request sent jointly by
the General Directors of the Tax and Customs Departments. The Customs Directorate produces outputs
- 5 -



which it has delivered to the GDT on floppy disk since the introduction of the VAT because electronic
transfer was not an option. The issue was raised that the PC Trade software was not Y2K compliant, which
meant that future data from Customs would not be easily merged into the GDT database, which was Y2K
compliant. Per the Government's request, improved software was procured under the project which not
only meets Y2K requirements, but also uses a more modem software platform. The package was installed
and users trained.
Component 3. Introduction of the VAT
Introduction of the VAT on July 1, 1996, was a major accomplishment for the Government. In the
preparation phase, the Government took the laudable policy decision as recommended, to draft legislation
which provided for a broad based, single rate tax with few exemptions, which differed greatly from the
tumover tax regime it replaced. The VAT rate, however, was set at a low 12.5%, when according to
estimates, an 18-20% rate was needed to preserve the desired level of revenue. A second issue was the fact
that the threshold above which the taxpayer would pay VAT, rather than small business tax, was set lower
than recommended, at 2 million lek. The low threshold resulted in the situation where collections from 50%
of VAT taxpayers were less than 2% of total collections, spreading the administration's resources thinly
and clearly going against the principle of focusing on large taxpayers and high revenue transactions.
Despite this, revenues in the first three months of 1997 were double those in the same period the previous
year, reflecting the inadequacy of the turnover tax with its many exemptions. In early 1997, an IMF FAD
mission visited Albania and found that, "Even with a low VAT rate, the reform has resulted in significant
revenue increases [...] mainly due to the broad coverage of the VAT and the establishment of modem
systems for its administration. Without a doubt, these reforms have resulted in significant steps toward the
modernization of the tax system." Later that year, the Government raised the threshold to 5 million lek and
took the politically difficult decision to raise the VAT to 20%, a rate more in line with that in other Central
Eastern European and Balkan countries (e.g., Croatia - 22%).
Preparations for introduction of the VAT had required:
Operational systems and procedures to be designed, including design of the registration
system, the return and payment processing system, the audit system, the design of
appropriate forms and software development.
Manuals and training of officials. The seven-member VAT Development Unit established
within the GDT prepared the overall training concept, and organized training on the
VAT procedures and systems for managers and initial trainers who later were
responsible for training the main body of tax and customs officials.
Publicity and Taxpayer information campaign outlined the benefits of a value added tax.
A 'Registration Guide for VAT' was developed for businesses and a 'VAT Guide' for all
registered VAT taxpayers explaining the law and operating procedures. Seminars for tax
administration managers and training sessions for accountants were offered, and an
advisory visit campaign to all VAT taxpayers was established.
The major accomplishments of VAT introduction can be summarized as follows:
The successful implementation of a single-rate value added tax, supported by
modem tax administration procedures and computerization in two VAT pilot offices.
- 6 -



Registration of domestic VAT taxpayers: at VAT introduction, about 2000 in Tirana
and 500 in Durres. Currently, about 8500 VAT taxpayers are registered nationwide.
Establishment of procedures and the system for payment of the VAT at branches of the
National Commercial Bank in Tirana and Durres.
Rollout of the automated VAT systems and processes to an additional six large district
tax offices in Korce, Elbasan, Shkoder, Vlore, Fier and Lushnje.
Establishment of the Large Taxpayers Unit in the Tirana Branch Tax Office to provide
all services (advisory, collections, audit) to the country's largest taxpayers.
Upgrade of systems to be Y2K compliant and to accommodate additional modules
and reports requested by the GDT management and the Government.
Training Initiatives
The GDT's focus on continuing education for tax officials is one of the measures which should
over time ensure the sustainability of established processes and procedures, as well as the success of future
activities of the GDT. Training originally foreseen under the project included training for the tax and
customs administrations (especially for implementation of the VAT) and training of the financial police, all
of which was implemented as planned under the guidance of the IMF resident advisors. The possibility of
specialized seminars and training abroad had also been anticipated. Later in the project, the credit financed
a number of other training initiatives proposed by the GDT: (i) specific training courses related to new
legislation, (ii) the 'Train-the-Trainers' program on various tax topics, (iii) training in special information
technology subjects for the GDT IT staff, and (iv) hands-on training of database administrators and
operators for the newly automated district offices.
i.     Training related to new legislation. Per the Government's request, the credit financed two
courses held in-country, through which over 100 tax administration staff were trained. This was initiated
because the redrafting of the 'income tax law' required rapid retraining of tax administration staff who
would have to apply it. The second course in auditing was also urgently needed due to the low capacity of
tax officials. An additional benefit was the fact that the GDT was able to enlist as course instructors the
consultants who had assisted in redrafting the income tax law. In this way, the participants benefited from
the consultants' personal knowledge of the new law and a good understanding of the Albanian context
which they gained during the drafting process.
ii.    'Train-the-Trainers' Program. This program was inspired by the success of the above
in-country courses and was created rapidly during the last six months of the project at the request of the
Government, with a view to training instructors who could develop tax administration capacity in the short
run. The program was generally well-received and about 12 tax officials attended the full 5-course series.
There had been some concern that it might not be possible to free the program participants from their
regular responsibilities in order to train others. Should that not have materialized, the program would have
had a very limited impact. These concems were short-lived, however, as the GDT has already employed the
trainers to offer courses outside the capital and has plans to continue sending the trainers to the districts.
iii.    Technical training for IT Department. As already mentioned, the credit financed a number of
highly specialized technical training courses for the staff of the IT department related to the Oracle
database software on which the automated VAT system operates. The training until now was much needed
- 7 -



in order to develop and implement the new systems. The GDT will need to ensure that future training
possibilities are available to the IT staff if they are to stay abreast of developments in the field as they
apply to the tax administration's needs, to support the automated VAT offices as well as GDT
headquarters.
iv.    Training of district VAT personnel. In the summer of 2000, the Training and the IT
Departments of the GDT teamed up to ensure training of staff from the six newly automated district offices
in VAT procedures and operation of the new systems. This turned out to be a successful pilot effort which
could be replicated in the future, as current and new tax personnel require similar training.
Training under the project has been essential, contributing considerably to upgrade the skills of tax
administration staff in their day-to-day work and to improve the efficiency of the tax administration. The
experience has also established a basis for and created an awareness of the need to continue the training
effort on a continuing basis.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Albanian Government has successfully implemented the first steps in creating a modern tax
administration. Although much remains to be done, impressive results have been achieved. Institutional
development as a result of the TAMP is reflected in numerous decisions and measures the Government has
taken.
For the Tax Department
The law and procedures for VAT, the law on income taxes (personal and corporate), the
law on Profit Tax and the law on Tax Procedures were drafted.
A new organizational chart for the tax department was established and the department
restructured.
In order to contribute to the development of tax administration capacity in the short run,
instructors were trained who travel and offer instruction to staff in district offices.
A single-rate value added tax with few exemptions is being implemented by tax officers
trained in modern tax administration procedures.
After automated VAT systems and processes were successfully piloted in Tirana and
Durres the systems have been rolled out to an additional six large district tax offices.
The IT Unit is highly trained and capable of supporting GDT HQ and automated VAT
office needs, and revising software.
For the Customs Directorate
A new organizational structure was established with a functional organization.
Customs procedures were simplified and a customs procedures guide developed.
The internal audit and internal control function responsible for reviewing all declarations
were strengthened.
-8 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
1997 Civil Crisis. The project was implemented for the most part during a period marked by great
turmoil in Albania. The Government implemented the VAT on July 1, 1996, during a year characterized by
macroeconomic backsliding, increased political instability, and the mushrooming of fraudulent pyramid
schemes. The collapse of these schemes in late 1996 and early 1997 triggered massive civil unrest and
resulted in a loss of the progress realized to that point in improving revenue collection. Compliance control
by both the tax and customs administrations suffered dramatically, office facilities were destroyed,
although the GDT managed to protect project investments. Notably, the Tirana and Durres pilot units were
able to continue operations. In some regions and at most borders, however, revenue collection had come to
a complete halt. It took quite some time for the revenue administrations to get back to normal operation
and even longer for revenue collection to get back to levels prior to the disturbances. Overall, the 1997
crisis caused a significant setback for project implementation and revenue collection which would be
repeated on a smaller scale during the Kosovo crisis.
1999 Kosovo Crisis. This crisis also strained Albanian institutions, although the overall economic
impact on Albania was not as devastating as that of the 1997 crisis, owing to generous external assistance
and Albania's admirable management of the influx of refugees. For the project, however, the effect was
essentially equal to a six-month suspension of activities (including Bank supervision mnissions). The
negative impact on smooth operation of the revenue agencies is evident in the data: from 1998 to 1999,
total tax revenue increased by only 0.2% and VAT revenues, normally the highest revenue earner,
decreased by 0.5%. As a point of comparison, from 1997 to 1998, total tax revenue had increased by 2.5%
and VAT revenues by 1.6%.
As a result of these disturbances, the Albanian revenue administrations were, for a good part of the
project implementation period, struggling with the day-to-day business of sustaining revenues, which
diverted them not only from implementing both immediate and longer-term project activities, but also from
focusing on fundamental tax reforms, on which they are now beginning to concentrate as they start the next
phase of modernization.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
Intense politicization of the Government led to frequent changes in the MOF leadership and in the
GDT. Six Ministers of Finance and as many Directors of the GDT presided over the project
implementation period. These changes brought additional instability and adversely affected the project
because, after each change, it would take some time before the new managers would get acquainted with
the project. Moreover, the changes in Government brought with them political changes in tax
administration personnel down to the level of the district tax offices.
The general problem of low public sector salaries at times rendered TAMP implementation difficult.
For example, the IT Unit was unable to hire contractors with specialized skills (computer programming)
even on a short-term basis to support the GDT. Qualified candidates to fill the Database Administrator
positions in the newly automated district offices were difficult to identify. Qualified and experienced staff
could easily find jobs in the private sector. Immigration also took its toll on the GDT: four highly
qualified staff left the IT unit over the last two years, including two heads of the IT department, at times
endangering project completion and sustainability.
-9-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MOF did not always provide sufficient attention and support to the management of the PIU,
which was at times seriously understaffed and poorly equipped and housed. These issues were resolved,
however, and the PIU, now responsible for four IDA projects, has three full time staff and adequate office
space to do its work. In the last one to one and a half years of the project the PIU had developed to an
exemplary level of performance, handling not only a large ICB procurement, but, for the first time,
procurement and supervision of small works in three regions of the country.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$4.2 million equivalent at appraisal, with an IDA credit of
US$4 mnillion and a Government contribution of US$0.1 million. The EU Phare contributed US$0.2
million to Customs for technical assistance and equipment.
In January 1998, the Government requested, and was granted, a reallocation of project cost
savings which included the allocation of an estimated US$500,000 for the construction of an annex to the
Tirana Branch Tax Office. The Government was unable to acquire the rights for the property on which it
wished to build the annex despite almost a year of negotiations. This accounts for most of the approximate
SDR 494,000 (about US$650,000) cancellation. The Governnent was also able to find other sources of
funding for much of the technical assistance it received for drafting various tax legislation. IDA funds
allocated for these activities were either cancelled or reallocated.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The project is likely to be sustained. The Government counterparts have seen the benefits of the
TAMP, and enhancing revenue collection continues to be a critical objective. Users of the VAT systems
have reported that the establishment and operation of the pilot offices in Tirana and Durres have been
instrumental in bringing about improvements in the overall tax administration. According to one tax
official, it was the experience of the pilot project which convinced the administration of the need to improve
legislation on income tax and fiscal procedures. The practice of self-assessment has become the foundation
of a new mentality of the taxpayer and the tax official. It has also been reported that tax inspectors are
happy that the transparency of computerized processes precludes the possibility of negotiation or discretion
and that the systems have allowed the tax branches to become more effective and thorough in their work.
Although much remains to be done to improve the tax administration, the consensus among tax officials
appears to be that the VAT pilots have been a catalyst for changing attitudes of both tax officials and
taxpayers.
Over the last year of the project, a special effort was made to focus on sustainability and institution
building. The role and participation of the Bank office in Tirana were enhanced to this end. Specific areas
being discussed or where action has already been taken include the role of internal audit, efforts to
improve/increase taxpayer registration (especially small businesses), implementing new regulations for the
income tax law, and influencing the decision by the Tax Directorate to establish a new organizational chart
and restructure the tax department. In addition, a number of topics and proposed initiatives are also under
discussion, such as improving audit through hiring specialized accountants, further taxpayer education, and
assistance in improving the GDT's statistical capacity.
The GDT is working hard to sustain and build on the results of the TAMP. Training in tax
administration topics and technology skills, both past and future, will be a major contributing factor to
- 10-



continued success of initiatives begun under the project. The Training Department of the GDT has been
and will continue to be pro-active in arranging training opportunities, and the GDT's 2001 training program
is under discussion. Other donors are also stepping in to assist the Government. The UK's DFID has
committed Euro 1.2 million to assist the tax administration, and the Government recently invited the IMF's
Fiscal Affairs Department to assist in defining the next steps in the GDT's modernization effort which may
include, inter alia, development of audit capacity, improvement of the VAT refund system for exporters
and investors, and establishment of a more modern appeals system. The organizational structure of tax
offices will have to be reformed in order to support the extension of modern tax administration procedures
to the whole tax system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project design took into account IMF recommendations and Borrower capacity. Close liaison with
the IMF contributed to suitable project design. The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle
was satisfactory. There were no significant deviations in Bank policies or procedures in project
preparation. The project received about 48 staff weeks for project preparation through Negotiations.
7.2 Supervision:
The project received 84 staff weeks for supervision. In the first year of supervision, due in part to
staff turnover, the project had three task leaders. The task leader who took over the project in May 1995,
remained with the project until closing. In the first two years of the project, Bank missions were jointly
held with the IMF. From 1997 some supervision missions had had to be delayed due to civil unrest and,
once calm was reinstated, were not always sent out to the field immediately in order not to overwhelm the
Government counterparts with Bank staff. The GDT and the PIU, however, continued to implement project
activities, and supervision was handled with fax/phone communication, and more recently email as
frequently as necessary. As circumstances changed, and especially during the periods of disturbances, the
Bank exhibited flexibility and allowed the restructuring of the project and reallocation of cost savings
(approved in 1998). There were no major deviations from IDA policies and procedures on financial
management, procurement or disbursement.
Quality Assurance Reviews. The project was subject to a Rapid Supervision Assessment (RSA3)
in 1999 and a full Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA4) in 2000. In the RSA the project received an
overall rating of 2, with some processes not being rated fully satisfactory, while under the QSA4 the project
was rated satisfactory for all key elements.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. Especially over the last 18-20 months of
project implementation, the Bank worked very closely with the GDT's IT unit and the PIU to facilitate
implementation and assist the GDT to meet tight deadlines.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was Bank-led due to the Government's inexperience at the time in preparing
technical assistance projects. The IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department had worked with the Albanian
Government since 1991 to formulate major tax policy and administrative proposals. The Government
- 11 -



considered reforns in tax and customs as a priority to mobilize resources, to reduce deficits and to ensure
fiscal sustainability. In 1993, the short and medium term strategy for tax and customs administration
reform which had been developed served as the basis for the TAMP.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Cooperation, at the start of the project was mixed as the revenue agencies experienced great
uncertainty when faced with the major changes proposed under the project. Eventually collaboration was
satisfactory, and the agencies' staffs demonstrated willingness to learn and the desire to implement the
reforms. Despite political uncertainties and a series of political changes in the GDT leadership, the
Government stayed commnitted to implementing the project and meeting the project objective. However, the
institutional weaknesses, and the social and political turmoil caused delays in project implementation and,
three one-year extensions of the credit closing date were requested and approved.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The periods of civil unrest, coupled with changes in the Govermnent and GDT leadership, had a
negative impact on project implementation, and at times progress lagged for substantial periods of time.
The small IT department did an admirable job in meeting the support needs of GDT headquarters and the
Tirana and Durres pilot units, and in completing the complex task of expanding the automated VAT
systems and training staff in the six new districts. The GDT's decision to engage an extemal informatics
expert to assist the department made it possible to make up some of the time lost and to complete
implementation of the expanded project.
Early in the project implementation, purchase was made of some vehicles that had not been
approved. The full amount was eventually reimbursed to the Special Account.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was located within the Ministry of Finance. At the start of
TAMP implementation, its staff was relatively experienced having been responsible for other Bank
financed projects, but the staff of the GDT and the Tirana and Durres offices took time to become familiar
with procedures of IDA financing. In 1996, a new Director of the PIU was named who, after training and
gaining necessary experience, ensured smooth operation of the PIU, efficient and transparent procurement
actions, and contributed to successful achievement of the project objective. This was especially apparent
when the GDT was facing extremely tight deadlines in the last 18 months of the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Overall, Borrower performance can be assessed as satisfactory. Although the country went
through periods of political instability and turmoil, the project objectives were achieved, and some of them
significantly surpassed.
8. Lessons Learned
Continuity of project leadership. Continuity in project leadership and those implementing a
project is essential. During project preparation and implementation, the Director of the Tax Department
changed six times. It has been very fortunate that in the last two years of the project, the GDT has benefited
from continuity of its top officials, without which it is quite possible the project would not have reached its
satisfactory conclusion.
Project management. The Ministry of Finance did not always provide sufficient attention and
support to the management of the PIU, which was at times seriously understaffed. The work achieved in
the last 18 months stresses the value of retaining professional PIU staff who were able to assist the GDT to
implement the last phase of the project, including ICB and small works procedures, under very tight
- 12 -



deadlines. At the GDT management level, priorities will need to be managed with care in order to ensure
that, given the limited human and financial resources, the most important activities are implemented.
Project scope. Focusing implementation of the new functional organization, procedures, and
automation on a single tax, the VAT, contributed to the success of the GDT by limiting the task to
objectives that would stretch, but still be within the capacity of a relatively new tax administration.
Certainly the concepts promulgated were very new for this administration. Moreover, the Bank's approval
of the use of cost savings to expand the VAT systems to new locations gave the GDT the chance to test its
capacity to manage and implement this activity and to succeed in so doing with much less external
assistance than it had had for the pilot offices.
Lack of competitive salaries. Engaging and retaining qualified personnel is a problem,
particularly experienced IT staff who can easily find employment in the private sector at much better
salaries. Although offering higher salaries may not be possible in the short run, other incentives and
rewards must be sought such as challenging work, further training and setting reasonable priorities for
work.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In his cover letter forwarding the Borrower's contribution to the ICR, the Minister of Finance
expressed the Government's satisfaction with the Bank team's assistance and collaboration, which
contributed to successful project implementation. The Borrower's contribution, which appears in Annex 8
of this report, details the information technology developments supported by the project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                     projected in last PSR                  ActuaL         EstiMate
Establishment of two VAT pilot units in  Original VAT pilot units have been    same
Tirana and Durres.                     operational since July 1996.
Registration of domestic VAT taxpayers:  Registration of VAT taxpayers actually  same
about 2000 in Tirana and 500 in Durres.    exceeded original estimates.
Training of tax agents to implement VAT.    Tax agents were trained in time to implement same
VAT.
Refurbishment of six District Tax Offices    Offices refurbishment was complete and  same
(Shkodra, Elbasan, Korca, Lushnja, Fieri,   satisfactory.
and Vlora).
Upgrading of VAT software application.  VAT software application was upgraded.    same
Purchase of hardware and installation of  Six additional VAT automated units were    same
VAT software for district offices.      established.
Training of staff in district offices to use  Staff in district offices was trained by the  same
computerized system.                    combined effort and cooperation of the GDT
IT staff and the GDT Training Department.
Purchase of additional hardware for large    Hardware was purchased and installed in    Hardware was purchased and installed in
taxpayer unit.                         current premises.                       current premises. GDT is looking to expand
office space available for LTU.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                     Proctd in as :                         Actul/      t Estimate
End of project
The last PSR was that of the Completion Mission in September 2000 by which time almost all project activities
had been completed.
- 14-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Directorate of Taxes                                   1.84            1.74            99
Customs Directorate                                    0.90            0.87            61
Establishment of pilot units                           1.68            1.46            93
Total Baseline Cost                                    4.42            4.07
Total Project Costs               4.42            4.07
Total Financing Required               4.42            4.07
About SDR 495,000 (est. US$649,500) were canceled.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Mthod'         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other'
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      1.01          0.00          0.59          0.00         1.60
(1.00)        (0.00)       (0.55)        (0.00)       (1.55)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          2.61         0.20          2.81
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.45)        (0.00)       (2.45)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.01         0.01
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      1.01          0.00          3.20          0.21         4.42
(1.00)        (0.00)       00) 0)        (0.00)       (4.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Mto
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB       Otthero          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.65         0.00          0.65
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.53)        (0.00)       (0.53)
2. Goods                      1.02          0.00          0.70          0.00         1.72
(1.02)        (0.00)       (0.70)        (0.00)       (1.72)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.26         0.00          1.26
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.26)        (0.00)       (1.26)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.14          0.00         0.14
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.14)        (0.00)       (0.14)
- 15 -



5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                            1.02            0.00            2.75            0.00            3.77
(1.02)          (0.00)          (2.63)          (0.00)          (3.65)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b  Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                Appraisal Estimate              ActuallLatest Estimate         _       _       _
Bank       Govt.      CoF.       Bank        Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt   Coi .
Directorate of Taxes        1.84       0.10                   1.64       0.10                 89.1   100.0
Customs Directorate         0.90       0.12       0.20        0.55       0.12       0.20      61.1   100.0  100.0
Establishment of pilot units    1.68                          1.46                            86.9
About SDR 495,000 (est. US$649,500) were canceled.
- 16 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 17-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/93                          2   TM, Tax Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/93                         4   TM, CE, OpOff, Tax Spec.,
Info. Spec.
Supervision
9/94                          2  TM, OA                                 S                 S
3/95                           1  TM /b                                 S                 S
11/95                         3  Pr. Econ, OA, Tax Spec.               S                  S
4/96                           3  TM, CE, Info. Spec.                   S                 S
7/96                          2  TM, Project Officer (RM)              S                  S
5/98                          2  TM, Info. Spec.                        S                 S
1/99                          2  TM, Tax Spec., PTL                    S                  S
12/99                         2  TM, Info. Spec.                       S                  S
5/00                          2  TM, Info. Spec.                        S                 S
ICR
9/00                          2   TM, Info. Spec. /c                    S                 S
a/     TM - Task Manager, Tax Spec. - Tax Specialist, CE - Country Economist, Info. Spec. -
Informatics Specialist, OpOff - Operations Officer, OA - Operations Analyst, Pr. Econ - Principal
Economist, PTL - Program Team Leader
b/     The Country Economist, also Task Manager for the TAMP, visited Tirana in the context of
another project. A forn 590 was not filed.
c/     The IMF Fiscal Affairs Department fielded a mission at this time to review progress in the GTD
reform program and make recommendations for the next phase of modernization.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               23.1                        79.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    25.2                        75.4
Supervision                              83.8                       228.0
ICR                                       7.9                        34.6
Total                                   140.0                       417.1
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El SectorPolicies                        OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Physical                              OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
F Institutional Development              O H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
ElEnvironmental                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
Social
l Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Li Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
Fi Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Ol Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
F Overall                                             OHS OS   O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
N Preparation                                         OHS OS   O U   O HU
M  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
1 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   OU  O HU
N Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P-624 1 -ALB
* Development Credit Agreement, No. 2646 ALB
* Completion Report of "Train-the-Trainers" Program
* TAMP Supervision and Audit Reports
* Preliminaiy plans for construction of Annex to Tirana Tax Office Branch
* Plans for refurbishment of six district offices
* Report of engineer - Supervision of district office refurbishment
- 21 -



Annex 8. Government Contribution to ICR
THE STATE AND PROSPECTS OF THE COMPUTERIZATION OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATION AT NATIONAL LEVEL
1.    Achievements in the computerization of the tax administration
The computerization of taxes commenced in 1995 with the computerization of VAT as was part of the
Project for the Modernization of Tax Administration. (TAMP), funded by an IDA credit. Apart from the
computerization process the project involved technical assistance for drawing up the VAT legislation.
The first stage of VAT computerization involved the following elements:
-     System analysis was performed by an expert from IMF.
-     The application was developed by a four-member team from the General Directorate of Taxes
(GDT) along with three Albanian programmers hired on a contract basis. They received a month's training
at Oracle, Hungary, before taking up the job. This stage lasted one year and a half.
-     Implementation of pilot systems in Durres and Tirana in June 1996 with the introduction of VAT.
It aimed at pointing out potential errors in the system during the 6-month period and gaining the necessary
experience in dealing with such complex systems. A number of problems were resolved by the informnation
technology staff.
-     The system was envisaged to be implemented in six other districts of the country during the first
half of the year 1997 but it failed due to the civil unrest of that time in Albania. During this period
(beginning of 1997 - April 1998) 3 out of 4 staff members from the General Directorate of Taxes
[Information Technology (IT) Department] left the country.
At the request of the Albanian government concerning the funding for VAT computerization in six districts
of the country, in March 1998 a World Bank Mission visited Tirana and had meetings with tax directors
and the staff of the tax computerization. At the end of the visit the mission recommended that the funding
should continue. It was agreed that the second stage of the project should involve some other issues which
were not envisaged in the original request.
The second stage of TAMP project, the funding of which was completed on June 30, 2000, involved
the following aims:
a)    Modification of VAT system to make it Y2K compliant
This became top priority because the VAT application software could not function after December
31, 1999. There was also a need to migrate the VAT application to newer Y2K compliant versions
of Oracle database and tools which in turn created the need for new hardware, capable of running
the new software. This objective was achieved in six months and completed in the following steps:
-     make the development environment in the GDT compliant.
-     procure a new database server (funded by GDT) and software (Network Operating System, Oracle
database, Oracle development tools)
-     modify the VAT application logic to make it Y2K compliant and convert the code to the new
version of the Oracle development tools
- 22 -



-      procure the hardware and software for the Tirana and Durres office
-      deploy the VAT software in Tirana and Durres
In this context the updating of the PC Trade software was funded by the project. This software is being
used by the General Directorate of Customs for the registration of imports.
b)    Resolving the identified bugs in the VAT software and adding new functionality.
During the time that the system has been in place some problems have emerged in the program
(bugs) as in any information system. Also new functions have to be created so that the information
gathered from the system should be used effectively. Sixty bugs have been resolved. The new
functions have been deployed in Tirana and Durres offices.
c)     Extending the VAT computerization in Elbasan, Korce, Fier, Lushnje, Vlore and Shkoder,
which includes:
-      procuring hardware and software for the offices in the various districts
-      selecting and training the information technology staff for the offices in the districts
-      training the inspectors of the offices in the districts on using the system
-      installing the hardware and software in the districts
-      installing the VAT application and priming the database
In this context, procurement of hardware and software for the offices in the districts was carried out
through ICB in association with PIU. The company that won the bid has completed the installation and
configuration of the system in the districts.
*     The selection and training of the information technology staff for the offices in the districts: The
selection of the staff (two operators and a system administrator for each district) was done in a transparent
way, by announcing the job vacancies and relevant standards in the press and TV. The candidates were
interviewed by a special panel and the whole process ended with the announcement of the winners. We
must point out that for the position of the administration the candidates were found with difficulty, which
led to the delay of the process.
The information technology staff for the offices in the districts received a week-long training in the
computerized districts (Tirana, Durres). The system administrators also received a week-long training in
Tirana by a certified instructor from Novell in the administration of the Novell network, as well as a
week-long training in database administration at Oracle University in Budapest.
Trainers were trained to extend training to inspectors of the VAT offices in the districts, who would use the
information technology system. To this end, a three-day training course was organized in the VAT office in
Durres, which was attended by VAT chief and two inspectors. Anyway, based on the experience of the
existing system in Tirana and Durres, it would take several months to get accustomed to the new system in
the districts. Errors are expected to occur during this period and a continuous support will be needed from
the information technology staff in the Directorate [headquarters].
Initializing the database in the districts is planned to be completed by end December 2000.
d)     Providing the Information Technology Department in the General Directorate with the
necessary technology for the further development of the application, setting up a local network in the
- 23 -



General Directorate so as to enable a larger number of the Directorate staff to have access to the
information kept in the Directorate. In this context, an information system has been installed in the
General Directorate, which provides access to one copy of the information in the VAT office in
Tirana.
This information is updated on a monthly basis. Work is in process so that information from VAT office in
Durres and other districts which are being computerized could enter the system. This system aims at
providing access to the information on imports and on the Register of VAT taxpayers and importers. In this
context, 59 PCs and a number of printers and other accessory equipment were purchased with the funds of
the General Directorate of Taxes to help set up this system. Also, a separate system has been set up in the
General Directorate for upgrading and testing the applications. The necessary software for moving into a
web-based architecture have been acquired.
e)    Training the information technology staff in the General Directorate in Oracle tools used at
work and in software expected to be used in the near future.
In order to increase the effectiveness of work and enable the staff for the new tasks to move ahead, the staff
of the Information Technology Directorate has been trained at Oracle University in Ljubljana, Budapest
and London.
I)    Providing the necessary equipment for the tax offices which will not be computerized for
running an accounting program purchased from a local company which is in operation for some years
now in the tax offices in Durres and Tirana.
This equipment, which is procured in the context of the open intemational bid, is being delivered. The
contract for the increase of the number of licenses for the accounting program is expected to be awarded.
Resolving the initial problems will require the commitment of the information technology staff for a period
of several months, which should be taken into account in carrying out the tasks in the future.
The impact of the computerized systems
There are already in operation the VAT computerized systems in Tirana and Durres, Fieri and Lushnja,
registratiorn subsystem in Elbasan as well as the computerized system of the General Directorate of Taxes.
The VAT systems involve:
-      registration of VAT taxpayers and modifications to the register
-      declaration and payment of VAT. In this context the system monitors the deadlines of the
declaration and payment and provides automatical reminders, announcement of obligations, penalties for
the non-taxpayers.
-     assessment of the tax declarations
-      auditing and reassessment
-      delinquency monitoring
The General Directorate of Taxes consists of:
-      The VAT National Register which contains records of VAT taxpayers in all the districts, provides
the taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) to the non-computerized districts as well as the imports lists to
- 24 -



these districts. Unfortunately the transfer of files is still done on diskettes due to the absence of a telephone
line.
-      The development system which is used for improving the existing applications, developing new
ones, and introducing the staff to the new technology.
-      The data mart system of VAT which contains information from the operational system in Tirana to
help the staff of the General Directorate.
II.    The Further Development
The General Directorate of Taxes has the following objectives in terms of computerization:
-      develop and deploy a computerized system for cross-checking of VAT invoices. The system would
be effective within the month of September 2000 in the tax office of Tirana. The system will serve as a
pilot system. It will be installed in the other districts based on the experience gained so far. The system in
Tirana went into production at the end of September.
-      providing a data mart for the VAT in the General Directorate with information from the VAT
operational systems in the districts
-      improving the security of VAT operational systems in the districts
-      initializing the VAT systems in Vlore, Korce, Shkoder
The development strategy of the computerized systems is as follows:
General aspects
-      making best use of the open technologies
-      developing applications based mainly on our own resources, maintaining property/ownership on
them and the source code
-      organizing work on a project basis (specific tasks for the fulfillment of which teams are set up and
clear deadlines are set)
-      protecting current investments in the information technology systems from technological changes
and departure of personnel.
Technical aspects
-      an incremental development of applications
-      gradual introduction to a 'thin client' architecture
-      gradual introduction of open intemet technologies
-      gradual increase of the role of the system analysis and switching to a repository based analysis and
development system.
The goal of the General Directorate of Taxes is the complete computerization by 2004. The critical success
factors for the fulfillment of this goal are as follows:
a)     obtaining the necessary funds for computerization
b)     obtaining foreign technical assistance for improvement of legislation and tax procedures
c)    retaining the existing staff and its continuous training. There is a tendency for the specialists of
information technology to leave the country or move to the private sector because of the very low salaries,
which are much lower than those of the private sector. For this reason, it is almost impossible to hire new
personnel to meet the job criteria (standards). We can refer to the employment of some administrators in
- 25 -



some districts who could not meet these standards. Consequently, the current qualified staff goes to various
districts to resolve very simple issues.
d)     The continuous training of the tax inspectors in using the systems
To this end the following steps need to be taken:
1.     Setting the priorities by the tax management. The GDT has asked technical assistance from IMF
for a strategy of reform of the tax administration.
2.     Perforn a preliminary analysis
A working group led by a deputy general director was set up. The group comprises:
-      relevant tax expert
-      procedural experts
-      legislation experts
-      training experts
-      information technology experts
The goal of this group will be taking concrete steps, as follows:
defining the needs for foreign technical assistance, i.e., finding qualified specialists in the field of
tax computerized systems and in the field of legislation
-      improve legislation and tax procedures in conformity with the requirements of a computerized
system.
3.     A detailed analysis of the system, which should be conducted by foreign experts as mentioned
above, because Albania lacks experts with experience in this field. At this stage technical specifications are
produced for:
-      changing and extending the existing database
-      procedures and functions of the application
4.     Developing the system. This will be achieved pursuant to the above mentioned specifications by the
DSTI experts; programmers will be also included on a contract basis if necessary. At this stage it is
necessary to train the infornation technology staff and to exchange experience.
5.     Procurement of pilot system
Based on the experience with the World Bank and following the procedures of the World Bank,
procurements conducted by a specific unit such as PIU are much quicker and more efficient, due to the
clear requirements and qualified personnel.
6.     Implementation of the pilot system. At this stage, the necessary experience will be gained and
potential problems of the system will be identified and resolved. Prior to this stage is required training of
end users.
7.     Switch on the production system
- 26 -



Annex 9. Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission
ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Completion Mission
September 18 - 22, 2000
Aide-memoire
1.    From September 18 to 22, 2000, Ms. Ilene Photos (Mission Leader), and Mr. Friedrich
Konigshofer (Senior Informatics Specialist) visited Albania for the completion mission of the Tax
Administration Modernization Project (TAMP, Cr. no. 2646-AL). The mission team met with officials of
the General Directorate of Taxes (GDT) and the Customs Department of the Ministry of Finance, the
Korce District Tax Office, the Elbasan District Tax Office and the staff of the Project Implementation
Unit, and worked closely with the IT team of the GDT. The mission would like to thank all involved for
their collaboration and kind hospitality especially during this, the final mission for the TAMP.
Introduction
2.    According to users of the VAT systems, met by this and previous missions, the establishment and
operation of the pilot offices in Tirana and Durres have been instrumental in bringing about improvements
in the overall tax administration. According to one tax official, the pilot project has led to recognition of the
need to improve legislation on income tax and fiscal procedures. The implementation of self-assessment has
begun the establishment of a new mentality of the taxpayer and the tax official. It was reported to the
mission that tax inspectors are happy that the transparency of computerized processes precludes the
possibility of negotiation or discretion and that the systems have allowed the tax branches to become more
effective and thorough in their work. Although much remains to be done to improve the tax administration,
the consensus among tax officials appears to be that the VAT pilots have been a catalyst for changing
attitudes on the side of both tax officials and taxpayers. The Tax Directorate and all involved should be
congratulated on this first step toward establishing a new taxpaying culture.
Assessment of VAT system implementation
3.    The computer equipment has been delivered to the six new sites (Elbasan, Shkoder, Lushnje, Fier,
Vlora and Korce) and to GDT headquarters, LAN wiring was completed and configurations tested. There
is one remaining technical problem with the software for the line printers to be used for printing tax forms,
after which the cut-over into production of the tax processing modules may be effected as soon as the data
is ready for migration. The contractor is working on a fix for the printers.
4.    Database administrators (DBAs) have been recruited for all new VAT system sites. Most of them
have meanwhile received the required technical training in Novell and Oracle. Nevertheless, there has been
some turnover, meaning that a few DBAs left their jobs after receiving the technical training, while the
replacement recruits have unfortunately not received it.
- 27 -



5.     Besides the problem with the form printers, the greatest challenges in the way of achieving
production operation at the six new sites are (a) the difficulties the offices will have to overcome for the
loading of their new automated databases with the data currently on paper, and (b) the lack of adequate
office space, as in some offices the full office space agreed and refurbished under the project for the VAT
sections has effectively not been assigned yet for the VAT staff and computer equipment. The first of these
problems is exposing weaknesses in the paper files, such as large amounts of records of now defunct firms.
The GDT and the automated district offices must find ways to correctly eliminate these firms from the
records.
6.     As to the problems of lack of agreed space, the mission learned that except for the offices in
Lushnje and Viora, at least one of the agreed and refurbished rooms for the VAT section and its computer
staff and equipment has not yet been made available for this purpose in each of the other four new sites.
The mission recognizes that this problem might have aspects offorce majeur, as space may be too tight
overall at these offices. Some of the districts will receive additional office space soon, and are said to be
waiting until this happens before they will make available all space as agreed for the VAT sections. The
mission has emphasized the fact that the original design of the VAT sections is not arbitrary, but by
intention for, among others, security reasons. For instance, due to data security and integrity concerns, it is
mandatory that VAT section chiefs be in a separate room from the DBAs. The GDT must exercise the
most stringent control to ensure that the full space agreed for the VAT sections be made available soonest
at each district site.
7.     In addition to giving top priority to making available the agreed office space for the VAT sections
in all six offices, GDT management must also ensure that the IT Department of the GDT has uninhibited
access to the new 4WD vehicle, just as this purchase had been proposed (and cleared for procurement by
the World Bank) for the purpose of supporting the new installations by the specialist staff of headquarters.
Additional intensive support from the headquarters IT staff will be needed in the district VAT offices for
some time while the new systems are made operational.
8.     The most advanced office for making the VAT system operational appears to be the one in
Elbasan. There, the step of loading the initial database has already been achieved. Subject to the form
printer software fix, the office will be ready to move to full system implementation within a few weeks from
the date of the mission. However, the office in Elbasan is also among the ones suffering most from still
having one of the LAN-wired and refurbished offices occupied by another unit. In this case, at least three
workstations have been returned to their boxes and put in storage, while one workstation unit might even
still be at the warehouse. GDT management must find a satisfactory solution to this serious problem. In
the mission's opinion, the other five offices should become operational by the end of the year, and if they
do, this would be considered a good performance. This will be dependent on there being no further delays
due to lack of office space or lack of mobility of the headquarters IT group.
Site visits to Elbasan and Korce
9.     The mission carried out a site visit to the offices in Elbasan and Korce. At both sites, it found the
situation as already described, i.e., that one of the required and agreed rooms is not yet available for the
VAT section. On the positive side, it was found that all expected deliveries under the contracts had been
made and installed, i.e., furniture, copiers, air conditioners for the server/DBA and data entry operator
offices, and computer equipment (except the workstations repacked or still at the warehouse in Elbasan).
The refurbishment work for the rooms allocated to the VAT section had been made at both sites to
apparently pleasing standards, executed by different contractors. This fact attests to the excellent work
done by the architect who had developed the designs and bills of goods and works. As the completeness
- 28 -



and quality of the refurbishment work at the other four new VAT system sites had already been attested by
a local architect consultant engaged with Bank supervision funds, satisfactory contract performance has
been ascertained at all six sites.
10.    The mission would like to acknowledge the excellent and warm reception, and the hospitality,
which it received both at Korce and Elbasan. Despite the difficult and in each case different problems
related to making the full complement of rooms available for the computerized VAT operation, it was clear
that officials at both places were eager to accept the new system and fully cooperate in its introduction.
Capacity of the IT Department
11.    The IT Department recently lost another key veteran staff member to emigration, unfortunately
after she had participated in the highly specialized and rather costly Oracle application and web
development training in London. A new competent staff member has been hired, bringing the group back
to a level of four IT specialists (including the chief of the department). The department is in the process of
recruiting one more specialist, and yet a further one who would work at the Tirana branch tax office.
12.    Despite a high staff turnover due to the ever-present pull of ernigration and the private sector, the
IT department under its leader has managed to keep technically strong and admirably responsive to
operational and management needs. Appropriate prioritization of tasks will be of high concern. Currently,
the IT team is working on multiple assignments. Management has directed the department to develop
methods of matching VAT invoices claimed by purchasers with the same invoices issued by sellers. The
department is obviously also giving priority to bringing the new VAT system sites into production mode.
Other plans are to make available for use the new statistics and management reports designed by the
intemational consultant, and commence development of the planned tax web site. Longer term plans
include the computerization of other taxes, especially the business profit tax, and the network
interconnection of the automated district tax offices, which would obviate the need for sending aggregated
data to headquarters on tapes and offer multiple other benefits. At some stage, a general improvement of
the VAT system installation at the Tirana Office will also need to be pursued as this installation is already
working at the limit of its capacity with a volume exceeding by far that of the other largest pilot office of
Durres. Given this long list of activities already on the agenda, it is clear that management will need to set
priorities carefully.
13.    The mission wants to stress that the Government is very well served by the IT department and
attached technical/DBA staff in Tirana, Durres and the new offices. The GDT looks like a sample
institution for what can be achieved in sensible automation in the Albanian Government, in terms of
application systems and strong staff skills. The GDT needs to do everything it can to maintain this
excellent situation by making technical training available to new technical staff, and continuing training of
existing staff, supporting modest updates to the computer equipment over time, and expanding the fine
technical library established under the project. With the current staff setup and working atmosphere, there
is no question in the mind of the mission that the achievements already gained will not only be sustainable,
but that there will be further expansion of the system capabilities and benefits.
New software procured for Customs Department
14.    The mission visited the Customs Department to discuss and receive a demonstration of the
software upgrade of the PC-Trade package as installed with technical assistance procured from the
software authors, Statistics New Zealand. While the mission has no doubt that the team from New Zealand
was totally dedicated to achieving a successful installation, including considerably extending its stay in
- 29 -



Tirana, not everything planned could be achieved. Due to the absence abroad during the mission of the head
of IT of the Customs Department, the actions planned to redress the remaining shortcomings could not be
discussed in depth, but it is assumed that these shortcomings will eventually find a resolution. Statistics
New Zealand is available and willing to answer any questions that may arise in the further implementation.
Training Initiatives
15.   The mission was pleased to discuss with representatives of the Tax Department a draft version of
the 2001 training program under preparation. The GDT's focus on continuing education for tax officials is
one of the measures which should over time ensure the sustainability of established processes and
procedures, as well as the success of future activities of the GDT. The Credit financed a number of training
initiatives proposed by the GDT, the most recent of which includes (i) the "Train-the-Trainers" program on
various tax topics, e.g., direct and indirect taxes, (ii) training in special information technology subjects for
the GDT IT staff, directly related to its support to the pilot offices for the VAT automation, as well as the
General Directorate of Taxes, and (iii) hands-on training of database administrators and operators for the
VAT automated district offices.
16.    Results of the "Train-the-Trainers" Program. This program was created rapidly during the last
six months of the project at the request of the Government. Despite time constraints, the program was well
received and about 15 tax officials received the training. There had been some concem that it might not be
possible to free the Program participants from their regular responsibilities in order to train others, and,
should that not have materialized, the Program would have had a very limited impact. These concerns were
short-lived, however, as the GDT has already employed the trainers to offer courses outside the capital and
has plans to continue sending the trainers to the districts.
17.    Technical training for ITDepartment. As already mentioned, the Credit financed a number of
highly specialized technical training courses for the staff of the IT department related to the Oracle
database software on which the automated VAT system operates. The training until now was much needed
in order to develop and implement the new systems. Just as computer hardware needs to be upgraded from
time to time, so will the IT team's capabilities, by making future training possibilities available to them so
that they can stay abreast of developments in the field as they apply to the tax administration's needs.
18.    Training of district VA Tpersonnel. The Training and the IT Departments of the GDT teamed up
to ensure training of staff from the six new automated district offices in VAT procedures and operation of
the new systems. Eighteen tax personnel were trained in Durres, three from each of the newly automated
offices. This turned out to be a successful pilot effort which can be replicated in the future as current and
new tax personnel require simnilar training.
Assessment of the Project Implementation Unit
19.    The mission reviewed the operations of the Project Implementation Unit and held detailed
discussions with its Procurement and Financial Specialists. The Bank team has been very pleased with the
performance of the PIU. The PIU Director is very knowledgeable in Bank procurement procedures, has
gained solid experience and successfully manages several projects with minimum guidance on procurement
procedures. He is meticulous in ensuring a suitably staffed evaluation committee to ensure a transparent
and appropriate outcome of the procurement process. The full time Procurement and Financial Specialists
keep accurate and complete books and files and are able to respond rapidly to requests, as reflected during
the ex-post procurement review and a check of disbursement summary sheets undertaken by the mission.
- 30 -



Ex-post procurement review
20.   The mission carried out an ex-post review of procurement decisions that did not require prior Bank
no-objection. All procurements of this nature had, however, been part of the Procurement Plan, estimated
as to prospective price, and most bidding documents and shortlists indeed had received prior Bank
no-objection. Therefore, the mission's ex-post review concentrated on the evaluation, selection and
cost/financing aspects. The mission selected five procurements for its ex-post review, representing more
than 50% of all procurement over the last year and a half which did not require prior Bank review. The
review was carried out at the office of the PIU. Paper and computer files were all found to be in excellent
order, and every procurement step was found well documented.
21.   The mission reviewed all remaining procurement actions in detail. It was found that they were
either complete or on course to be finished and paid within the grace period of the Credit, as agreed with
the Bank's Loan Department. As the last item, the emergency power generators had just arrived in Tirana
and were cleared through Customs during the week of the mission, for delivery and installation over the
coming weeks. All final invoices will soon be sent to the Bank's Disbursement Division for payment. Due
to exchange rate fluctuations and in order to ensure adequate financing for remaining project activities to be
completed, SDR 325,000 had been canceled as of the Credit Closing date, rather than the SDR 375,000
indicated in the Bank's letter of July 6, 2000. Once final payments are made, all remaining undisbursed
funds will be canceled.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
22.   The Borrower, represented by the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank each has its responsibility in
the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Bank will prepare its part of the ICR
along Bank guidelines and send it to the Borrower for comment.
Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation
23.   Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was discussed with the Director
General of Taxation and the other contributors (IT, training, PIU). The Bank team intends to have the
Bank's part of the ICR ready to be transmitted to the Government for comment by October 31, 2000. The
mission explained that the Borrower, in turn, should begin now to prepare its own evaluation report on the
project's execution and initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived from it, the Banks and Borrower's
performance of their obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the
loan were achieved. The mission was informed that for previous ICRs, the Borrower commented on the
Bank's submission but did not produce its own evaluation report. The mission, however, encourages the
GDT in this case to prepare a report of its own so that the project's successes could be clearly documented
and the lessons learned discovered. The PIU has received the Bank's guidelines for ICRs and relevant
operational guidelines. The following is a proposed outline for the Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
(i)     an assessment of project achievements -- this part will highlight accomplishments,
particularly those of the IT and Training Departments, as well as describing shortcomings of the
project
(ii)    an assessment of the Bank's performnance -- the Borrower will discuss aspects of the
Bank's perfornance, both satisfactory and unsatisfactory
- 31 -



(iii)   a self-assessment of the Borrower's performance -- the Borrower will describe what it
feels it did well and what, in retrospect, it might have done differently and why
(iv)    lessons learned -- a description of the lessons the Borrower learned from its experience,
especially those which would be useful in the preparation of future projects either in Albania or
elsewhere
(v)     actions being taken to ensure sustainabilitV -- for example, planned training, further
automation, review of other tax legislation, etc., that the GDT has in mind. This part might also
draw attention to actions already implemented, such as the extensive training of the IT team and
legislation already revised in the recent past.
The mission emphasized the fact that this was an opportunity not only to highlight the difficult measures
and activities implemented in the course of the project, but also to look back with pride on accomplishments
and forward to the nurnerous activities plarmed and underway.
Calendar for ICR Preparation
24.    To enable the timely submission of the final ICR, including both the Borrower's and the Bank's
evaluations, to the Executive Directors by December 31, 2000, as required by Bank guidelines, the
following calendar has been agreed.
October 31, 2000    the Bank will send the draft of its review of imnplementation (Part I
of the ICR) to the Borrower for comment
November 14, 2000  the Borrower will send its draft contribution to the Bank for
comment
November 30, 2000  the Borrower will comment on Part I of the ICR and send its final
contribution to the Bank
Coordination of ICR Preparation
25.    The following persons will coordinate the preparation of the ICR for the Borrower and the Bank:
For the Borrower    Mr. Kujtim Brovina, Director General of Taxation, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Rezar Turdiu, Director, PIU
For the World Bank   Ms. Ilene Photos, Task Manager
Tirana
September 22, 2000
- 32 -



