C/2 C;  y
Doc=nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rept No. P-6241-ALB
EORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.83 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A
TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
JULY 6, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6241 ALB
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipies only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contens may not otherwise be diseosd withoot World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNr
Currency Unit = Lek
(Average Commercial Rates)
June Dec March
1991 1922 1993 I199 194
US$1.00=    15.0  98.9   101.0  98.0  101.2
WEIGTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIp          -      Cost, isurance and freight
DT            -     Directorate of Taxes
ESAF          -     Enhanced Strucural Adjustment Facility
EU           -      European Union
CDP          -      Gross Domestc Product
ICB           -     liternational Competitive Bidding
IDA           -     International Development Association
IMB           -      nternational Monetary Fund
MoF          -      Ministry of Finance
PHARE         -     Poland/Hungary Assistance for Reformig Economies
PIU           -     Project Implementation Unit
PPF           -     Project Preparation Facility
SuI          -      Social Insurance Institute
TAA          -      Technical Assistance Agreement
VAT           -     Value Added Tax
REPUBIC OF ALBANIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBIIC OF ALBANIA
TAX AlDMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECr
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Republic of Albania
BenefIciarIes:        Ministry of Finance (Tax and Customs Directorates)
Credit:               SDR 2.83 million (US$4 million equivalent)
Termt:                Standard IDA terms
Financing Plan:                     Local             Foreign            Total
-(US$m milions)
Government   0.22                                 0.22
IDA             -                   4.00          4.00
EU              -                     202
Total         0.22                  4.20          4.42
Econic Rate
of Retum:             not applicable
Povery Category:    not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:               not applicable
TI  poWt was prepared by Mr. Hiu Hent (Financial Analyst, EC2CO), wih ontibutons fmm Ms. Doniqwe
DwFrcaut (Economis, EC2CO), Me. Rochele Hiton (Openso Officer, EC2CO) and Mr. Jean-Paol Bodin (Tax
SpeciWst-IMP). Mr. Luis-Jose Maji (LATPS) was the peea rovwer. The Task ManagW of the projct is Mr. Hium
(iC2CO). The Division Chief is Mr. Michel Nod5 (EC2CO) and the Depamnt Director is Mr. Kemal Denvig
(EC2DR).
This docment has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only iD the performa of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 2.83 MILUON EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommdation on a proposed
technical assistance Credit to the Republic of Albania of SDR 2.83 million equivalent to help finance a
Tax Admion Modernization Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms with a 40 year
maturity. Technical cooperation will also be provided by the European Union.
2.    Country/Sector Background. Albania has moved rapidly to participate in the economic and
political transformation sweeping Eastern Europe. The demise of communism over 1990-92 was
accompanied by economic and political chaos: output decline in Albania has been more extreme than
anywhere else in Eastern Europe. This resulted in a fiscal crisis of unprecedented dimensions in Eastern
Europe and monthly inèlation climbed to 10-15 percent. Despite these extremely difficult starting
conditions, the new Albanian Government embarked in mid-1992 on a successful stabilization program.
In 1993, macroeconomic stability was established and the first signs of a new, dynamic private sector-
based growth are emerging. GDP growth for 1993 is estimated at about 10.5 percent, mainly due to the
growth in agriculture.
3.    Until about two years ago, tax and customs laws, and their respective administrations were geared
to handle a centrally planned economy. As in all other centrally planned economies, the state enterprise
sector was the main source of tax revenues. In the mid-eighties, tax revenues amounted to 45-50 percent
of GDP. Tax revenues for 1993 amounted to about 20 percent of GDP, a drop of nearly 25 percentage
points from the mid-1980s levels. The major revenue earners have become the turnover tax (22 percent
of total), excise tax (19 percent of total), wage taxes (14 percent of total) and customs duties (16 percent
of totl). The high level of profit tax revenues (24 percent of total) is misleading as one third of this is
accounted for by the tax on Central Bank profits. This profit is in fact more than compensated by interest
payments from the budget to the Central Bank.
4.    The bulk in the decline of tax revenues between the mid-1980s and 1992 is accounted for by a
decline in the profit tax and in the turnover tax revenues. While the decline in the profit tax revenues
relative to GDP is explained by the low profitability of the state enterprises, the decline iii turnover tax
revenues relative to GDP reflects a structural transformation, namely the declining share of state
enterprise output in GDP. Because this decline cannot be expected to be reversed, a new tax base has
to be found, and a market-oriented tax system established. A move towards this began about two years
ago,with assistance from the IMF, the EU and other agencies. Progress, however, has been slow and
much remains to be done.
5.    Finding a new tax base is constrained by two considerations. First, short-term revenues cannot
be sacrificed to the long-term development of a sustainable tax base, in light of Albania's current difficult
fiscal situation. Second, the institutional capacity of the tax administration is very limited, affecting
collection performance, introduction of reforms and adoption of new taxes. In view of the urgency of
the budgetary crisis, the loss in income that is sometimes associated with the initial steps of tax reform



2
must be miniized. To the contrary, tax revenues need to be increased In the short term in order to
make up for the expected decline In revenues from the sale of food aid (from 25 percent of total revedues
in 1993 to less than 1 percent in 1996).
6.    The tax administion currently is composed of the Directorate of Taxes (DT), the Customs
Directorate and the Financial Police. All three agencies report to the Ministry of Finance. Their current
staffing Is approximately 400 in the DT, 320 in Customs, and 1,200 in the Financial Police. While the
DT and Customs respectively have Jay-to-day responsibilities for tax and customs collections, the
Financial Police have a broader mandate to ensure compliance with all fiscal regulations. The Financial
Police enjoy wide discretionary powers, apparently with limited accountability and judicial review of their
actions. The Financial Police not only undertake controls of taxpayers and importers separate from the
DT and Customs, resulting in duplication of work, but they also monitor the work of the staff of these
two other agencies.
7.    Neither the Tax nor Customs Directorate uses its resources effectively. Furthermore, both need
to develop modern procedures and improve allocation of staff to priority areas. The DT needs to improve
compliance by significantly improving basic collection procedures as well as the detection and control of
non-filers and non-payers. Audit priorities are inappropriate, with excessive staff allocated to the small
business sector and inadequate staff allocated to turnover tax and excise audit work. In the Customs
Directorate, control over goods entering the country is inadequate, transit procedures are deficient, entry
processing needs significant improvement, and greater control over refunds is urgendy required. These
weaknesses point to a need for actions to improve compliance with existing procedures, as well as the
introduction of new procedures.
8.    Although the Albanians have received technical support from a variety of sources, the authorities
have been unable to coordinate this effectively to focus on proper administrative reforms in both
tax/customs policy and administration. As mentioned in para 4, progress has been made in setting up
basic tax and customs systems that are suited to a market economy but much work remains to be done.
For Albania to move forward and develop modern tax and customs systems, critical decisions on the
organizational, policy and administrative issues must be made soon. Furthermore, given the limited
administrative capacity available in Albania, implementation of selected strategies will need to be phased
and implemented based on a clear set of priorities.
9.    In order to alleviate the problems mentioned above, the Government has developed, with the
assistance of the BMF and the Bank, a strategy with the short-term objective of implementing a limited
mb*er of priority measures to support the reform programs in both tax and customs directorates. This
strategy requires: decisions on the reorganization of both directorates; elimination of the current
overlapping responsibilities with the Financial Police; measures to secure tax and customs collections,
strengthen audit procedures, simplify the turnover tax procedures and improve customs entry processing;
the design of a Value Added Tax (VAT) to replace the current turnover tax; and the introduction of a
land tax at the local level. Implementation of these measures has been agreed with the IMF as part of
the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF).' Agreement was obtained during negotiations that
an action plan to clarify the relationship of the tax and customs directorates with the financial police will
be prepared and that satisfactory progress in its implementation will be achieved by January 1995.
1  Approved in July 1993. TMe mid-term rview of the First Annual Armgemet bas bee atisftorily
concluded and discussions for the Seond Annual Arrangement are underway.



3
10.   The Government has decided to introduce a VAT in Albania in 1995. Under the proposed
project, the VAT wil be used as a model for the introduction of modern methods of taxpayer registration,
filing, payment and control. Two pilot units will be established to implement a computer-based system
for monitoring compliance with basic tax obligations. Given the concentration of large firms in Tirana,
one unit will be established there. The second unit will be in a smaller city. In establishing these units,
the first system application to be developed will be the VAT. The system will then be extended to the
payment of excise, withholding tax on wages and social security contributions, as well as to the proft
tax for the largest taxpayers (e.g., taxpayers with an annual turnover above the VAT registration
threshold). Development of the VAT will also include a taxpayer education program. Extension of this
system to cover oiber major centers will be decided after evaluating the results achieved under the pilot
units.
11.   Country Assistance Strtegy and Rationale for IDA Involvement. A Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Albania was discussed by the Board on September 14, 1993, in the context of the
Technical Assistance Project for Social Safety Net Development. The proposed project fits in with the
objectives of the CAS by improving public sector administration and contributing to fiscal restucturing,
wihout which the reform process would not be sustainable. The Albanian Govemment has already begun
to strengthen its tax and customs administrations with the support of the IM and the EU. While the IMP
has the expertise to promote long-term fiscal reforms, it cannot provide the financal resources needed
to back them up. In addition, there ic a clear need for coordination of donor efforts, which in the past
have sometimes been inconsistent. The proposed project would strengthen tax and customs administration
and help sustain revenue collection that is crucial in view of the fiscal situation (see para 5). Finnci
resources needed to implement measures evisaged under the proposed project extend well beyond the
rources now avlable through the intational donor community (EU-PHARE). Support from IDA
would fill this gap.
12.   Project Objectives. The project's objecive is to assist the authorities to sustain and enhance
revenue collection in the short-term and to improve tax and customs administration in the long-term. This
objective is to be achieved by institutional and technological strengthening of administrve units in
charge of national taxes. The strategy includes defining the roles of the various entities (Tax, Customs
and Financial Police), the collection and taxpayer auditing areas, the improvement of taxpayer services
for the current tax structure, preparation for the implementation of the VAT, as well as measures to
improve the efficiency of the Customs Directorate.
13.   Project Description. The project will have five major components: (i) technical cooperation to
implement the proposed short/medium-term measures as agreed under the ESAF (see para 9), to sustain
revenue collection, and to reorganize the tax and customs administrations; (i) technical cooperation for
the development and implementation of a VAT that would replace the current turnover tax In 1995; (iii)
technical cooperation for the setting up of two pilot units to implement a compute-based sysm for
monitring compliance with basic tax obligations; (iv) tiing for both tax and customs officers; and (v)
purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials and any necessary refiurbishing of buildings to
accommodate the equipment for both tax and customs directorates. Given the limited aiminbuisive
capacity in Albania and the limited financial resources under the project, slpport for the overall
computerization of tax and customs procedures and implementation of the land tax at a local level will
be organized under a possible follow up operation. A detailed description of the project is provided in
the Technical Annex to this Memorandum. Attachment 1 to the Technical Annex provides a training
program.



4
14.   Project Cost and  mInandng. TMe project cost is estimated at US$4.42 million equivalent, of
which US$4.2 million is the foreign exchange cost. The proposed IDA Credit would finance 90 percent
of the total estimated project cost and 95 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The balance five percent
of the foreign exchange cost is expected te come from the EU-PHARE, which will provide training for
the Customs Directorate under the umbrella of the project. The EU has already allocated these funds for
taining customs officials in 1994, through their Regional Cooperation Program, of which Albania is a
beneficiary. IDA has taken into consideration all external assistance related to the tax and customs
administraions in the design of the proposed project. A breakdown of costs, and the financing plan are
contained in Schedule A. Attachment 2 to the Technical Annex gives a more detailed cost summary.
Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursement, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in
Albania are given in Schedules C and D respectively.
15.   Project Implementation. The project will be implemented over a two and one-half year period
and the Credit will close on June 30, 1997. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$500,000
has been approved to finance long-term consultants to help implement measures to enhance the efficiency
of revenue collection and start preparation for the implementation of the VAT. The project has been
prepared by IDA with the assistance of the IMF. There is a need for strong coordination and
managemem of the technical cooperation components, with special reference to the management and
supervision of consultants, the introduction of the VAT and creation of two pilots units, and training for
both tax and customs officials. The authorities have decided to engage the IMF to help them implement
the four technical cooperation components, given its long-standing relationship with both tax and customs
administrations and its special expertise in these areas. A Technical Assistance Agreement (TAA)
between the Albanian authorities and the IMF was signed on June 9, 1994, formalizing this arrangement.
The Technical Annex provides the proposed implementation schedule and the procurement plan for major
packages in Attachments 3 and 4 respectively.
16.   The first four project components would be implemented in accordauce with the TAA between
the IMF and the Albanian authorities. Under the terms of this agreement, the IMP will appoint the long-
term consultants with the approval of the authorities and the Association, and will be responsible for their
performance. One-long term consultant (tax expert) will work closely with the Head of the Directorate
of Taxes and one long-term consultant (customs expert) will work with the Head of Customs.
Appointment of these consuitants will be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The Heads of the two
Directorates report to the Vice Minister of Finance (MoF), who will be the project coordinator. The 1BE
will supervise the two long-term consultants and any other consultants appointed under the TAA, and
submit periodic reports on project implementation and progress to the Vice Minister and IDA. The VAT
Unit has been set up in the DT to prepare the introduction of the VAT.
17.   Monitoring and disbursements for the technical cooperation components to be provided by the
IMP will be handled by the Association, in line with similar arrangements established under a tax project
in Sri Lanka (IDA Credit 2128-CE). Financial control and routine implementation activities for the
equipment component, including providing assistance to the two Directorates in procurement and
disbursements would be managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the MoF for
the first IDA-fnanced project in Albania (Critical Imports Project).
18.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. Lessons from similar projects indicate the
need for a clear focus and limited scope in the project; commitment at all levels (political, managerial
and technical); and a sense of ownership of the project by executing agency staff. These factors have



all been taken into account in the design of this project. The project was conceived, based on a long
established collaboration between the Fiscal Affairs Department (FAD) of the IMP and the authorities.
The TAA (see para 16) between the IMP and the authorities will allow the IMP to closely monitor and
supervise project implementation. The specific tax reform measures (see para 9) to be implemented have
been agreed with the authorities, and two pilot units will be established to implement a computer-based
system. The Ministry of Finance has also indicated strong support for early implementation of the
project.
19.   Environmental Aspects. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (0D4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in Category 'C" and does not
require an environmental assessment.
20.   Benefits. The project will enhance the Government's ability to sustain and improve the collection
of revenues, and strengthen the Tax and Customs Directorates through the provision of expert advice,
strengthened institutions, training and provision of equipment. It will also improve the administrative
infrastructure which is necessary for more effective and efficient client services. Early education of the
taxpayer (see para 10) and measures to prevent evasion and improve compliance (see para 7) will provide
major benefits in terms of size and sustainability of tax collection. It will also offer donors such as the
EU a mechanism to channel their assistance in coordination with IDA, without overloading the
cpabilities of the Government.
21.   Risks. The project's major risks include: (i) the possibility of change in government strategy,
especily with regard to the future role of the Financial Police; (ii) weakness of institutional capacity to
implement the specific tax measures; and (iii) technical risks in computerizing basic tax obligations. The
risk of tax reform derailing is minimal because the Government has a strong interest in improving the
efficiency of the tax system in order to increase revenues. The proposed strategy (see para 9) with regard
to the Financial Police would clearly define the roles of the various entities and enable them to work with
a minimum of overlap. Extensive technical cooperation will be provided by the project to strengthen
mlanagementi capacity in the institutions involved, assist in the detailed design of strategic systems, and
ehance project implementaton. Technical risks of the project (e.g., computerization of basic tax
obligations) would be decreased by developing new initiatives on a pilot basis and replicating them upon
success.
22.   Agreed Actions. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that by
Jamnary 31, 1995, it will have made satisfactory progress in implementing an action plan satisfactory to
the Association, to clarify the relationship of the tax and customs directorates with the financial police.
The appointment of the long-term tax and customs experts will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



6
23.   R madon. I am satsfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Artcles of
Agreemnt of the Assoiation and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washingt  D.C.
July 6, 1994



7
Schedule A
REPIUBIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Adminisation Modernaton Project
Summary of Project Costs
Locl           Foreip          Totl       |
(US$Mmon)
Proec Componet
Consultat Services    0.02            1.22            1.24
Trang                 0.00            0.97            0.97
Computes              0.02           0.15             0.17
Office/Special        C.06           0.27             0.33
Refui~ishmt           0.01            0.10            0.11
hnmental Loca Staff  0.01             0.00            0.01
vehicles              0.08            0.80            0.88
Cotncies             Q. 0.69                        0.&I
Total Prqjec Cost                                     MA-
Loca           Foreg             Tota
(US$illion)
Financing Plan
IDA                               4.00              4.00
BU PHARE           -              0.20              0.20
Govrnnt           f..            -
TOTAL         ,4,2



RlEPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Procreent Method and Disburuement
Prcl ment Arrangements'
Project Eleinenls                  ICB            Othes              NBP               Toial
(US$inillion)
Technical Cooperation                              1.77                               1.77
(Consultants)                                     (1.61)                              (1.61)
Training & Study Tours                             0.84              0.20             1.04
(0.84)                             (0.84)
Goods                            1.01              0.59                               1.60
(1.00)           (0.55)                             (1.55)
Local Staff                                                          0.01             0.01
(0.00)
TOf'AL                            1.01             3.20              0.21             4.42
(1.00)           (3.00)                             (4.00)
F igures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA. These include total contigencies of 15%.
2 Includes Bank financed conislting services and training to be procured in accordancs with Bank
guidelines (UIS$2.45 million); intetnational shopplng (USSS00,000); local shopping (US$50,000).
NBF - Non Bankl Financed (EU-PHARE and local costs). Costs exclude customs duties and taxes,
Disbursments
Allocation of ID)A Credit
Categories                     Amount                         % to be financed
(US$million)
Goods                          1.27                           100% of foreign expedtures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
facotory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally.
Consultants' services and Training  1.83                      100%E
Refinancing of PPF             0.50
Unalloated0
TOTAL                          4.00
Estimated Il)A Disburseents
II)A FY                FY95                    FY96                   FY97
(US $ mi llion)
Annual                 1.75                    1.45                   0.80
Cumulative             1.75                    3.20                   4.00I



9
Scbeule C
REPUBLJC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Timetable of Key Project Processing Steps
(a)    Time taken to prepare:            4 months
(b)    Project prepared by:              Government with IDA/IMP assistance
(c)    First IDA mission:                July 1993
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:      November 15, 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                     June 9, 1994
(f)    Scheduled Board date:             July 26, 1994
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness:    October 1994
(h)    Relevant PCRs and PPARs:          None



10
Schedule D
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Status of Bank Group Operatlons In Albania
A. Statenent of IDA Credits'
(As of June 27, 1994)
USS Million
Credit   Fiscal                                                                     (Less Cancellations)
No.       Yen        Borrower                      Proiect                         Cleoi    Uneisbued
2404     1992      Republio of Albania  Critical Imports Project                   41.1        6.5
2461     1993      Republic of Albania  Rural Poverty Alleviation                   2.4        0.3
2492     1993      Republic of Albania  Technical Assistance for Economic Reforn    4.0        3.6
2499     1993      Republic of Albania  Transport/Infrastructure                   18.0       16.9
2524     1993      Republic of Albania  Agriculture Sector Adjustment              20.0       14.5
2534     1994      Repubtic of Albania  Housing                                    15.0       12.4
2543     1994      Republic of Albania  Social Safety Net                           5.5        4.8
2544      1994     Republic of Albania  Labor Market Development                    5.4        4.8
26102    1994      Republic of Albania  Dunes Water Supply                        IlA         11.
Total                                      123.0
Of which: Repaid
Total now held by IDA                      123.0
Total Amount Sold                            0.0
Of which: Repaid                        0.0
Total Undisbursed                                      7S.8
B. STATEMENT OP IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 27, 1994)
There are no IFC operations in Mbania
'The status of these projects is desoribed in a separate report on atl Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is
updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2 Not yet effective.



11
tEPUIBUC OF ALBANIA
Tax Adninistration Modernization Project
Technical Annex'
I.    Project Background
1.    Since 1992, progress has been made in setting up basic tax and customs systems in Albania that
are suited to a market economy, with the help of considerable technical cooperation. However, the tax
and customs administration are still very weak. Neither administration uses its resources effectively and
both need to develop modern procedures and better allocate staff to priority work. The tax offices need
to improve significantly basic collection procedures and the detection and control of non-filers and non-
payers. In addition, audit priorities are inappropriate, with excessive staff allocated to the small business
sector and inadequate staff allocated to turnover tax and excise audit work. The customs administration
suffers from inadequate control over goods entering the country and poor transit procedures.
Furthermore, entry processing needs significant improvement, and greater control over refunds is urgently
required.
Organiaton of F1scal Adndnistration
2.    The Directorate of Taxes (DT), Customs and Financial Police are separate agencies, each of
which reports to the Ministry of Finance. The current staffing of these agencies is approximately 400
in the DT, 320 in Customs and 1,200 in the Financial Police. While the DT and Customs respectively
have day-to-day responsibilities for tax and customs collections, the Financial Police have a broader
mandate to ensure compliance with all fiscal laws and related requirements in Albania, particularly in the
informal economy. The Financial Police enjoy wide discretionary powers, apparently with limited
accountability and judicial review of their actions. The Financial Police not only undertake controls of
taxpayers and importers separate from the DT and Customs, but also monitor the work of the staff of
these two other agencies.
3.    As regards tax work, there is already a major duplication of effort by the DT and the Financial
Police, particularly in the small business sector. In many tax offices, up to 50 percent of inspectors are
assigned to the collection of tax from small businesses, checking licenses and ensuring that basic
accounting records are maintained and invoices issued. The Financial Police perform the same tasks and
also ensure that social insurance taxes are paid.
1     This annex draws substantially on two documets that detail the backgromund situation of the Tax and
Customs Directorates and the proposed program of assstane - A September 1993 report by the IMP's
Fiscal Affairs Department, *Albania Strategies and Prionties for Tax and Customs Adminaon
Reforms," which was prepared by a June 1993 Fund (FAD) technical assistance mission, and a September
1993, Bank document, 'Albania: Building a New Economy, Proposals for Transition Policies". Both
documents are in the project file.



12                                 Tehnica Annex
Page 2 of 13
4.    Customs has primary responsibility for the clearance of goods crossing the land and sea borders
and for the collection of applicable duties, turnover tax and excise on those imported goods. However,
because of collection shortfalls and perceived weaknesses in customs clearance, assessment and collection
procedures, the Financial Police are re-checking trucks that cross at all border posts (after Customs) and
can be present at warehouses when Customs officers physically inspect goods for clearance purposes.
They also perform some post-clearance investigations in their role as an anti-smuggling agency. At the
moment, Customs officers do not do this work. The increased role of the Financial Police in customs
work has strong support at the political level, particularly from the Ministry of Finance. The Financial
Police also have been provided substantial assistance (training and equipment) under a bilateral assistance
program with the Italian Government. Continuing financial, material and training support is expected
under that program.
5.    At present, there are coordination and communication problems, as well as overlapping and
duplicated responsibilities, particularly between the Financial Police and Customs but also between the
Financial Police and the DT. Accountability and responsibility for revenue collection is dispersed among
these three agencies. Staff resources for tax and customs administration work in Albania are not being
used effectively, and with a third agency involved, the total cost of collecting taxes and duties increases
significantly.
6.    With a complement of 1,200 officers, the Financial Police is much larger than the combined
resources of the DT and the Customs service. Because of the scale of the Financial Police's operations
and the wide powers assigned to its officers, there is a serious risk that foreign investors (and perhaps
the Albanian public as well) may see the paramilitary operations of the Financial Police as inconsistent
with the development of a market economy in the country. Also, the more the Financial Police carry out
the work of tax and customs agencies, the greater is the likelihood that the authority of those agencies
and their officers will be undermined. A delicate balance must be found between the measures required
to combat corruption and tax evasion, and the maintenance of public and foreign investor confidence in
the government agencies that enforce these measures.
7.    The Government needs to take actions to improve the current relations and ineffective working
arrangements between the Financial Police and Customs. With the Financial Police now checking all
trucks at border posts and attending at warehouses for the unloading of goods, virtually the only Customs
work that they are not duplicating is the processing of entries (although information is taken from those
entries).
8.    As regards the work of the Financial Police in tax matters, the role and responsibilities of the
Financial Police should be clearly defined to minimize duplication of work with the tax offices. The
Financial Police have an important role to play in ensuring that people comply with basic economic
regulations and in controlling black market activities; their work should be concentrated in these areas.
In order to overcome the overlapping tax responsibility with the tax office, the work to be performed by
Financial Police should be clearly defined into four categories: (i) checking to ensure that small businesses
are properly licensed; (ii) checking to ensure that those small businesses maintain proper accounts and
issue invoices for sales; (iii) controlling the transport of goods (imports, goods in transit and domestic
products) in Albania; and (iv) following a written request from tax or social insurance officers, assisting
in the collection of arrears for tax and social insurance contributions. Under the project, assistance is
being provided (through a PPF advance) to help define this role. At the Government's request, the IMF



13                               Technical Anne
Page 3 of 13
(see para 21) will visit Albania in mid-1994 for this purpose, and to prepare an action plan satisfactory
to the Association to implement the program agreed to clarify the respective roles of the Tax and Customs
Directorates and their relationship with the financial police. Agreement has been reached with the
Government that by January 31, 1995, it will achieve satisfactory progress in implementing this action
plan, in accordance with the agreed timing and target dates.
Tax Adminstration
9.    The DT includes approximately 400 employees. Relative to the size of the country this is a small
number to administer the current manual system,2 but it would need to be reorganized and its staff
thoroughly trained if it were to absorb significant numbers of new recruits. However, an increase in staff
is not envisaged at this time since the directorate may be adequate to administer a computerized system
in the future. Simplifying and strengthening tax administration procedures in the very short term will
require more efficient collection through a lower frequency of tax payments, better tax return forms, and
systematic record keeping. In the medium term, measures will focus on improving audit and registration
procedures.
10.   Collection procedures are unnecessarily complicated for both tax payers and collectors. All taxes
but the turnover tax are paid monthly through the banking system or the post office; the turnover tax is
paid every five days. Payment of the turnover tax every 15 days would greatly simplify the work of the
DT without any serious impact on revenue flows to the Government. Tax return forms have recently
been designed for all the major taxes but have many deficiencies. In particular, they are not based on
self assessment principles. In the case of the turnover tax, for instance, an unreasonable volume of
information is required: description of goods, quantity, volumes, etc. In the case of the profit tax and
the small business tax, taxpayers must visit their tax office every three months to discuss their tax
liabilities on the basis of their balance sheets and their books of accounts. A large amount of DT capacity
is devoted to the assessment of the returns filed by these tax payers. New tax forms based on self
assessment must be designed. They should include basic data to allow a selection of taxpayers likely to
have understated their income and to determine who should be audited. Such a system based on
voluntary compliance and ex-post control would release valuable resources.
11.   The current manual registers maintained by the tax offices hinder the control of stop-filers. A
simple system of ledger cards should be set up where a single card would contain a taxpayer's basic tax
information. Because of the urgent need for such a system, and taking into account existing office
technology and staff expertise, initially the system would be manual and would be used to create a
computerized database as soon as technology and appropriate skills are available. In the meantime, two
pilot units will be established under the project to implement a computer-based system for monitoring
compliance with basic filing and payment obligations for all taxes payable by those taxpayers liable to
pay the VAT. One unit will be established in Tirana and the second will be set up in a secondary city
2     The capacity of the tax administation actually depends on the technology it uses, currently a manual one.
Once the tax admninistration is computerized, it may be large enough for Albania.



14                               Technical Anna
Page 4 of 13
to be selected.3 In establishing these units, the first system application to be developed would be the
VAT. In a relatively short period, the unit could be extended to payments of excises, withholding tax on
wages and profit tax (and in the longer term, social security contributions). As the next step, the
computer-based system would be extended to other important regional centers.
12.   The improvement in revenue collection to be expected from the above measures is very much
constrained by the absence of an effective Tax Identification Number (IMN) system. Local tax offices
have started to issue taxpayer numbers. However, these numbers are not suitable for computer
processing, there is no central registry, and taxpayers have not been advised of their numbers, which are
therefore not used in their declarations. At the same time, the newly set up Social Insurance Institute
(SI1) is in the process of establishing an automated social registration file and issuing social security
numbers to all of its payers and clients. In order to avoid duplication of work and to facilitate the
exchange of information between the social insurance and tax administration, the DT (see Box 1.2) is
expected to work with the SII in designing its numbering system and will require taxpayers to use the SU
numbers on payment advices and returns filed at the tax office. Use of the SII identification numbers for
tax purposes Is expected to be introduced as part of the proposed project.
Preparing for the Introduction of the VAT
13.   Currently, the largest tax yielded, at 22 percent of total tax revenues, is the turnover tax. The
general rate is 15 percent and applies to most non-food items at the wholesale level. The importance of
this tax requires that caution be used in dealing with its shortcomings, which are nonetheless substantial.
The tax contains a complex system of exemptions and differentiated rates and has no minimum threshold.
Applying the tax at the wholesale level results in a substantial element of cascading, as goods are
subjected to the turnover tax both when they are imported or manufactured and when they are sold by
a wholesaler. Moving to a Value Added Tax (see Box 1.1) would resolve the cascading problem of the
turnover tax. A program for the introduction of the VAT-now scheduled for 1995-is a major
component under the project. This program will also include the design and implementation of a tax
payer education program to help prepare for the introduction of the new tax. A VAT Unit has been set
up in the DT to handle the VAT program.
hnplementing a Land Tax at the Local Level
14.   The authorities are also considering the introduction of a land tax to be administered at the local
level. According to a study conducted by a United States Treasury consultant, the tax would be
administered on about 1,600,000 properties both in rural and urban areas, with the expected revenue not
likely to exceed 0.3 percent of GDP within a five year period after introduction. However, despite its
lack of productivity, as a local tax, the land tax could provide a new source of revenue for the fiscally
independent district councils that are envisaged. Given the limited administrative capacity of the
authorities and the limited financial resources under the project, technical cooperation for the
implementation of a land tax at a local level would be deferred to a possible follow-up project.
3     In Albania, 80 perent of the private companies are concentrated in two towns: Tirana (65 percent) and
Shkcoder (15 percent).



1S                                       Technica   e
Page 5 of 13
Customs Adminstration
15.    Customs offices are presently organized in headquarters located in Tirana and in 16 outfield
customs houses at land borders, sea ports, and inland locations. The staff at field customs houses are not
specialized, with each officer performing, in turn, acceptance of customs declarations, their review, and
the physical examination of goods-though large field offices have specialized sections dealing with
statistics, special clearance schedules, and finance. Under the proposed project, a standard organization
will be set up at all customs houses, whereby a chief would be responsible and accountable for
supervising authorizations and waivers up to a certain level. Higher value cases would be referred to
headouarters. Deputies would be in charge of supervising day-to-day work. The staff should be divided
in thi. e distinct sections-acceptance, reviewing, and goods examination-reporting directy to the Chief.
Box 1.1: A VAT for Albania
*     The introduction of the VAT would provide a sohaion to Om cascading caused by &*W twrver tax. It
would tax only the fnal oonsumer since at each stage of the production distribution chain, it is ooUectd only on
the difference between sales price and costs, i.e., wages plus profits. Each enterprinse subject to the VAT deducts
the VAT it paid on its inputs from the VAT it owes on its final product. In this way, only valu added is taxed.
*     A VAT adapted to Albania's circumstances would have to be uspk to administer with only one rate and
no exemptions - investments would be taxed, but the VAT paid on investments would of course be deductible from
the VAT owed. In fact, the VAT should avoid multiple rates and exenptions even in countries with a sophisticated
tax administion. New Zealand for instance has recently adopted a fonn of VAT very similar to that
recommended for Albania. Furthermore, in most ACCEDE counties tax reform has moved towards simplifying
the VAT, with a reduction in the number of rates and exemptions. In order not to overwhelm the tax
administration, the VAT would initially be applied only to enterprises with a turnover above a threshold set in such
a way as to capture the main tax payers at the wholesale and retail level.
*     The VAT would also provide a basis on whih to bui a modern ta colkecton system. Once the VAT
is introduced, the entire tax colloction system should be overhauled and streamlined. New and more formal
arwangements will have to be made between the tax administration and the banks for the collection of tax revenues.
*     It is often argued that the VAT is a regressive ta. Even if this is the case, a complex system of
multiple rates and exemptions would not be the best way to make the tax system more progressive. First, the loss
in revenues stemming from exemptions may be much higher than the income transfer that would be necessary to
compensate the poor for a loss in purchasing power resuling from the VAT. Second, multiple rtes and
exemptions are not only difficult to administer but also lead to tax evasions and create distortions. Most
importantly, what matters is not the regressivity of one tax instrument but that of the entire system of Government
revenues and expenditures.
16.    With 320 employees, the customs administration seems adequately staffed relative to the number
of customs entries processed at major locations. However, many officers are in need of training and
incentives. Furthermore, customs offices lack basic equipment, including detection equipment, and no
documentation is available to facilitate the work of customs officers apart from Instruction manuals
designed by an expatriate expert and recently translated into Albanian. There is no career plan designed
for officers of all ranks, nor the possibility to gain promotion through internal examinations. The
organization lacks a code of conduct warning officers of disciplinary action, possibly leading to dismissal
and/or criminal prosecution when serious breaches are detected.



16                                 Technical Annex
Page 6 of 13
17.   Computerization of customs operations is not a short-term priority. It is important, at this stage,
to ensure that the new procedures are working properly and that customs officers have achieved a good
command of their responsibilities. However, the procedures will be designed to ensure that they are
compatible with computerization which will be introduced at a later date.
18.   A monthly reporting system from field offices to headquarters was recently introduced but is not
functioning, despite commendable efforts by headquarters staff. Furthermore, the internal audit division
consists of only three officials, and therefore cannot conduct frequent and unannounced visits of field
offices. As a result, little or no control is exercised on the work of the officers and, when irregularities
are spotted, no serious action is taken against the offenders. Internal auditing should be expanded over
the next few months, partly through the transfers of Financial Police officers to the Customs
administration (see Box 1.2). Emphasis should be put on audits of the work of customs houses and the
review of samples of entry forms. The internal audit division should report directly to the Director
General of Customs.
Stategy
19.   In order to alleviate the problems mentioned above, the Albanian authorities have developed a
strategy (see Box 1.2) with the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. For the short term, the objective is
to establish a limited number of priority measures that will ensure that the reform programs in both tax
and customs administrations will be set on a clear path. This requires decisions on the reorganization
of both administrations, elimination of the current overlapping responsibilities with the Financial Police,
measures to secure tax and customs collections, and the design of a VAT to replace the current turnover
tax. Under the proposed project, the VAT will be used as a model for the introduction of modern
methods of taxpayer registration, filing, payment and control. Two pilot units will be established to
implement a computer-based system for monitoring compliance with basic tax obligations. In
establishing these units, the first system application to be developed will be the VAT. The system will
then be extended to cover other taxes and its expansion to other major centers will subsequently be
considered (see para 24). Given the limited infrastructure in Albania and the limited financial resources
under the project, technical cooperation for overall computerization of tax and customs procedures and
implementation of a land tax at a local level will be deferred to a possible follow up project.
I.    Project Description
20.   The proposed project is designed to address the above constraints and improve tax and customs
administration. It will include technical cooperation to develop and implement procedures in critical areas
such as the collection system, detection and control of non-filers and non-payers, improvement in auditing
procedures, development of the VAT, customs control, transit and entry procedures. Specifically, the
project will finance: (a) technical cooperation for implementation of agreed reform measures for both the
tax and customs administrations; (b) technical cooperation for the development and implementation of the
VAT; (c) setting up of two pilot units, one in Tirana and another at a selected location, to implement a
computer-based system for monitoring compliance with basic tax obligations; (d) training for tax and
customs officials; and (e) purchase of vehicles, equipment and supplies.
21.   In order to assist the Albanians to implement the first four components (a, b, c and d), the MoF
has decided to hire the IMF under the terms and conditions of a Technical Assistance Agreement which



17                                        Technical Annex
Page 7 of 13
has been concluded. The Association had no objection to this proposal and direct contracting for this
purpose has been approved. Under this agreement the IMF will hire consultants in line with Bank
procurement guidelines, with the approval of the MoF. These consultants will work closely with the
MoF, but report to the IMP. The IMP, in turn will be responsible for their performance and report to
the MoP.
Box 1.2: Strategy
Tax Adm tion
*     Define role and organization of DT with respect to the Financial Police.
*     Use the social insurance identification number to be issued by the Social Insurance Institute for tax identification
purpoSes.
*     Sitnplify tumover tax payment obligadons to require only two payments per month from taxpayers except the
largest ones.
*     Improve the ledger card system which is the basis for accounting for tumover, withholding and profits tax and
excise revenues received from state enterprises and legal entites, and implement stop-filer and delinquent
account action in tax offices.
*     Develop an audit plan to provide, on an annual basis, detailed audits of most excise taxpayers and 30 percent
of both turnover and withholding tax returns and allocate additional saff to undertake this work.
*     Proceed with plans for the introduction of a VAT by January 1995.
customs
*     Develop and implement a strategy to clearly define the roles of the Financial Police and customs authorities.
-   *  Introduce procedures to ensure that all goods taken into the country are reported to Customs and that they are
not allowed to be renoved or disposed of until a proper entry has been lodged, verified and cleared, and duty
paid or secured.
*     Improve Customs entry processing by ensuring that cnties are completed only by the importers, that the full
eight digit nomenclature is used and that once accepted and logged, entries are not retuned to importers for
corrections or cancellation. Apply penalties for misdeclarations.
*     Introduce a guarantee system to ensure the later payment of duty when goods have not yet been cleared.
Closely monitor refunds, which should be approved by headquarters above a certain level. Exercise tight
control over exemption claims.
*     Expand and improve internal audit with transfer of officers from the Financial Police.
Technical Cooperation
22.    Technical cooperation will be provided to the tax and customs administrations to help implement
the strategy described in Box 1.2. Specifically in the area of tax administration, it would assist in: (i)
refining the role and organization of tax administration; (ii) designing and implementing a system to use
social security numbers for tax identification purposes; (iii) simplifying the payment of the tunover tax;
(iv) improving the manual ledger card system; (v) developing an audit plan; (vi) proceeding with plans
for the introduction of the VAT; and (vii) establishing two pilot units to implement a computer-based
system for monitoring compliance with basic tax obligations. For Customs, it would assist in; (i) defining
the roles and responsibilities of the Customs Directorate and the Financial Police; (ii) introducing
reporting procedures for cargo; (iii) improving customs entry processing; (iv) introducing a guarantee



18                                 Technical Annex
Page 8 of 13
system for goods moving in transit; (v) expanding and Improving internal audit; and (vi) preparing for
the computerization of customs procedures. This component would include the financing of two long-
term consultants, one of whom would be a tax expert and the other a customs expert. Appointment of
these consultants would be a condition of effectiveness.
Development and hnplementation of the VAT
23.   The tax expert would lead the VAT Umt and be responsible for the development and
implementation of the VAT. This unit which has already been established and its head appointed, will
consist of a VAT expert, a systems expert and about five local staff (assigned from the DI) working full
time on policy coordination and control, drafting laws and regulations, and operating systems and
procedures. The major tasks of this unit wil be:
(a)    preparation of the legislation to be submitted to parliament; the law will include a
definition of the tax base (as broad as possible), the exemptions (as limited as possible),
the threshold for registration, the rate structure limited to a single rate plus a zero rate
for exports, payment and return obligations, invoicing and bookkeeping obligations, and
penalties for non compliance;
(b)    consultation with the private sector to test the design of the VAT, and ensure better
compliance;
(c)    administrative preparations for the VAT-such as designing of forms, developing
registration, reurn and payment procedures and systems, developing the VAT audit
system, drafting the VAT guide and mamnals, designing the VAT organization and
staffing, and training for the VAT staff; and
(d)    preparation and implementation of a taxpayer education program, and taxpayer
information to prepare taxpayers for introduction of the VAT.
Pilot Units
24.   Two pilot units will be established to implement a computer-based system for mciitoring
compliance with basic tax obligations. One unit will be established in Tirana, given the concentration
of large firms there; the second will be set up in a smaller city to be selected in consultation with the tax
expert (see para 19). In establishing these units, the first system application to be developed will be the
VAT. The system will then be extended to the payment of excise, withholding tax on wages and social
security contributions, as well as the profit tax for the largest taxpayers (e.g., the taxpayers with an
annual turnover above the VAT registration threshold). Extension of this system to cover other major
centers will be decided, after reviewing and evaluating the results achieved in the pilot units. The pilot
units will be established under the guidance of the tax expert, who will be assisted by a computer systems
designer and local counterparts. The tax expert will closely coordinate the work of the VAT team and
the pilot units.



19                                Technical Ann
Page 9 of 13
Training
25.   Training requirements for both tax and customs administration are shown in Attachment 1. This
program will be further refined by the long-term experts in consultation with the authorities and will be
closely reviewed during project implementation to adapt it as necessary to best respond to the emerging
needs of both administrations. Provision is made for a limited amount of overseas training particularly
to allow tax and customs officials the opportunity to visit and learn from other such administrations in
the region, who have more experience in adopting modern tax systems. The customs training component
would complement the training to be provided under the EU-PHARE's 'Eurocustomsw program.
Equipment and Supplies
26.   This component, for both the tax and customs administrations would consist of: (i) approximately
thirty vehicles for transportation of tax and customs officials; (ii) approximately twenty computers for
administrtive and budgeting purposes, a computer for the pilot unit, a number of copying machines, fax
machines, tax forms and miscellaneous items; (iii) detection/x-ray equipment for customs; and (iv)
refirbishing of both tax and customs offices to accommodate computers and fax machines. The
equipment list will be further clarified with the assistance of the long-term consultants to be appointed.
M.   Project Adndnistration and Implementation
Project Implementation
27.   The project would be implemented over a two and one-half year period, in accordance with the
atached implementation schedule (see Attachment 3). The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance,
would channel funds to the beneficiary agencies for the respective components. The Ministry, in
consultation with IDA, would also handle any future changes in the distribution of funds. The Vice
Minister of Finance has been designated to manage and coordinate all activities, to resolve any
implementation problems and to supervise the channeling of the funds.
28.   A PPF advance of US$500,000 has been approved to hire consultant to help implement the short-
term program and start the preparation for the implementation of the VAT. The MoF has appointed the
IMP to help them implement the first four project components (Technical AssistancC), as mentioned in
para 21. The obligations of the IMP in this regard are summarized in Box 1.3.
29.   The directors of the Directorate of Taxes and Customs Directorate would be responsible for
implementing those activities within their own jurisdiction and would report to the Vice Minister of the
MoW. In order to assist these directors, a long-term consultant for tax administration and a long-term
consultant for customs will be appointed. Terms of Reference for these experts have been agreed and
the tax expert has been selected. A suitable candidate for the Customs Directorate has been identified.
The VAT has been set up and the pilot units to be established will be under the tax expert, who would
be supported by short-term experts as needed, as well as by a dedicated Albanian team. The IMF will
be responsible for the performance of the consultants and for the submission of periodic progress reports.
30.   Financial control and routine project administration activities, including providing assistance to
the two Directorates in procurement, disbursement and reporting activities will be managed by the Project



20                                ITcnical Annex
Page 10 of 13
Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the MoF for the first IDA-financed project in Albania (Critical
Imports Project). To facilitaite record keeping for this project, some limited office refurbishing will be
provided under the project.
Box 1.3: Oblpgations of the IMF as Consultants
Design term  of reference and work plans for experts
Select the experts
Prepae briefing for experts
Provide backstopping (close supervision) and eventual debriefing of experts
Undetake inspection visits
Coordinate with respective area departments in both the IMP and the Bank
Submit periodic progress reports to the MoP and the Bank
Prepare relevant portions of the Implementation Completion Report
Project Cost, Flnancing, Disbursement, and Reporting and Auditing
31.   Project Cost. The total project cost (shown in Schedule A) is estimated at about US$4.42 million
equivalent, excluding taxes and customs duties from which the project is exempt. All costs have been
subjected to contingencies of 15 percent to cover price contingencies, in line with the Bank's present price
projections. The estimates for consulting assignments and training are based on typical current costs for
such assigments. A more detailed breakdown of project costs is given in Attachment 2.
32.   Flnaning. A summary of the project financing plan is shown in Schedule A. The foreign
exchange cost requirements are estimated at US$4.2 million. The local currency requirements (US$0.22
million) wIll be met by the Borrower from its own resources and from available grant funding. The IDA
Credit would finance 95 percent and the EU would finance five percent of the foreign exchange cost of
the project. If additional financing (particularly grant financing) becomes available for specific activities
or components, such resources could substitute for IDA financing. In this event, the proposed IDA
Credit would either be reduced by a corresponding amount or be used to increase support where needed
for other project-related activities.
33.   Disbursements. Disbursements of funds under the IMF-managed components will be handled by
IDA as per the Technical Assistance Agreement between the Albanian authorities and the IMF.
Disbursements for equipment and supplies will be administered by the PIU. The proceeds of the IDA
Credit will finance 100 percent of eligible direct foreign exchange expenditure, 100 percent of local
expenditure for ex-factory cost and 85 percent of local expenditure for other items procured locally for
equipment. Technical cooperation, consultants, training and study tours will be financed at 100 percent
of total expenditures. Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures against



21                               Technical Annex
Page I11 of 13
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent which will be made on the basis of certified statements
of expenditure detailing the individual transactions. The documentation to support these expenditures will
be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors
and IDA upon request.
34.   The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Credit is shown in Schedule B. The
uroject is expected to be completed by December 1996, and the Closing Date will be June 30, 1997. A
PPF advance of up to US$0.5 million has been provided to cover expenditures, primarily for the
appointment of advisors, to facilitate the early start up of the project.
35.   Speckal Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special
account in US dollars at a bank acceptable to IDA to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The
authorized allocation of this account will be US$0.5 million equivalent. At the request of the Borrower
and based on project needs, IDA will make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account, up to
the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account will be
submitted quarterly, or when one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications will follow the same procedure as
described in para 33. In addition, bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled by
the Borrower should accompany all replenishment requests.
36.   Reporing and Auditing. Assurances have been obtained from the authorities that the special
account, all project accounts, and statements of expenditure will be audited at the end of each fiscal year
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Such audits will be carried out in accordance with
international standards undertaken by auditors qualified for this task. Audit reports for the preceding
fiscal year will be made available to IDA no later than by the end of June of each year.
37.   The PW will furnish IDA with a series of reports on a regular basis. These reports will include:
(i) audited financial statements within six months after the close of each fiscal year; and (ii) records,
financial statements, other progress reports or other types of information that IDA may request from time
to time. Progress reports on project implementation for the technical cooperation components will be
provided periodically by the IMP. Based on information provided by the various beneficiary agencies,
the IMF will prepare its contribution to the Implementation Completion Report, within six months of the
Closing Date, covering all related activities during project implementation.
Procurement
38.   Procurement will be the responsibility of the PIU in consultation with the beneficiary agencies.
See Attachment 4 for the Procurement Plan and Schedule for major packages. The procurement
arrangements will be as follows:
(a)    Consultants'services: The IMF has signed an agreement with the Government to provide
technical cooperation for the first four components of the project. Appointment of the
IMP in this regard has been carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. Consultants
for technical cooperation and training to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit will
be recruited by the IMP from its panel of fiscal experts. The selection of the consultants



22                                Technical An
Page 12 of 13
under the technical cooperation agreement will be the responsibility of the IMF as the
lead consultants, and will also be consistent with Bank procedures and guidelines.
Procurenent Arrangements I
hQct E limen"                   ICB           Odthe             NBF              Total
_ 0(USsmillion)
Tedinifcooperatio1.77                                                            1.77
(Consultants)                                  (1.61)                           (1.61)
TaininW  & Study Tours                          0.84             0.20            1.04
(0.84)                          (0.84)
G1oods                         1.01             0.59                             1.60
(1.00)          (0.55)                           (1.55)
LOa Staff                                                        0.01            0.01
(0.00)
TOTAL                          1.01             3.20             0.21           4.42
(1.00)          (3.00)                           (4.00)
1     Figures in paehes  a  the amouts financed by IDA. 'Men include total contingencies of 15%.
2     Includes Bank financed consulting services and training to be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines (US$2.45 million); interational shopping (US$500,000); local shopping (US$50,000).
3     NBF - Non Bank Financed (BU-PHARE and local costs). Costs exclude customs dutes and taxes
fom which the project is exempt.
(b)   E:pmen  Vehicles for tax and custms administations will be grouped into two
packages totalling about US$1.0 million to be procured through intenational competitive
bidding (ICB), using the Bank's Stanc!ard Bidding Documents for goods. Detection
equipment, office equipment (including PCs), supplies and training materials estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 per contract (up to an aggregate cost of US$500,000), will
be procured through international shopping, based on comparison of price quotations
from a minimum of three vendors from three different countries. Remaining small value
items estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract (up to an aggregate cost of
US$50,000), may be procured locally on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three local suppliers. Albanian manufacturers competing for bids
under ICB will be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or the existing customs
duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is lower, over the CIF prices of
competing importers, provided they can demonstrate that the value added to the product
in Albania exceeds 20 percent of ex-factry bid price. Procurement documentation for
contracts with an estimated cost of US$200,000 and above, will be subject to prior IDA
review. Contracts below US$200,000 will be subject to selective post-award review by
IDA.
39.   Supervision. Although the project will require close supervision, this effort will be gready
facilitated by the involvement of the IMF, formalized in the context of its Technical Assistance
Agreement with the Government. In addition, we estimate the total staffweeks for project supervision



23                               Technical Annex
Page 13 of 13
as follows: FY95, 15 staffweeks; FY96, 15 staffweeks; FY97, 12 staffweeks. About 4 staffweeks are
expected to be provided by a procurement specialist and 4 staffweeks by the resident mission. About 12
staffweeks will be provided by an Information Technology specialist and the balance (22 staffweeks) will
be provided by the task manager. The first mission will be planned to coincide with anticipated Credit
effectiveness.



24                              Attchment L
Page 1 of 3
REPUBIUC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Training Program for Tax and Customs Staff (1994-199
Schedule                                    Number of Staff          DuratJon
1.  Training program for
Tax A tration
a. Basic training:
- manual processing of returns and payments           100            2 weeks
(edger card system,                                               Oct-Nov 94
collection procedures, action against stop-
filers)
- general audit training (selecton of returns,         40            1 week
audit methods, turnover tax and excise                             Oct-Nov 94
a;udits)
b. VAT training:
- VAT basic training (with the VAT guide:             200             1 week
finctioning of the VAT, registration for                           Sept-Dec 94
VAT, liaison with other taxes)
- VAT information training (taxpayer                    90           1 week
services, registration and information                            Oct-Nov 94
campaigns, advisory visits, seminars with
accountants)
- VAT administration training (with the VAT             40           3 weeks
administration manual: registration                               Sept-Dec 94
operations, VAT forms, VAT return and
payment processing)
- VAT audit training (with the VAT audit                40           3 weeks
mamnal: VAT auditor objectives, selection                         Sept-Dec 94
of VAT returns, VAT audit methods, liaison
with customs and profit tax, and VAT audit
reporting)



25                                   Attachmnt I
Page 2 of 3
Schedule                                           Number of Staff    Duration
c. Computer training:
- Pilot unit training (phase I: computerized                 20        2 weeks
processing of VAT returns and payments)                             Sept-Dec 94
- Pilot unit training (phase II: extension to other          20        1 week
taxes)                                                              Sept-Dec 94
- basic computer training week (office systems)              40        1 week
1995/96
- extension of the pilot unit systems to other               80       2 weeks
major centers (additional phases)                                   1996
2. Training program for Customs Administration
a.       Orientation                                        200        1 week
Oct 1994
overview of the mandate of customs
including revenue collection;
protection of the economy; and trade
facilitation
roles and responsibilities of the
Financial Police
b.       Customs procedures
cargo control; transit warehousing;                120       2 weeks
temporary importation; import                                Oct-Nov 94
declaration processing; export
declaration processing; and
accounting/cashier function
c.       Tariff and valuation                                40        2 weeks
Oct-Nov 94
-        Structure and application of the tariff;
-        valuation control



26                                 Atacbment 1
Page 3 of 3
Sdhedule                                     Number of Staff    Duration
d. Exemptions and refunds
- control of the granting and administration of        30        2 weeks
exemptions and refunds                                        Sept-Oct 94
e. Internal Audit
- roles, responsibilities and method of                10        2 weeks
operations                                                    Oct. 94
f. Computerization of external trade statisics
- data capture of import and export                    10        2 weeks
declarations                                                  Oct. 94
3.    Training program for Finanal Police
a. Orientation
- roles and responsibilities of Financial             900        1 week
Police, Customs and the Tax Directorates                      Aug. 94
b. Basic training to support Tax Directorate           50        1 week
Sept-Dec 94
c. Basic training to support the Customs              300        I week
Directorate                                                   Sept-Dec 94
- enforcement activities including techniques
of physical inspection; surveillance and
escorting; and, intelligence and investigation
- offenses and penalties
4.    TInnilSemlnars abroad
a. Tax/Customs                                                   60 man months
1994-96



27                                 Attachmen 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Admnistration Modernization Project
Detailed Cost Etimate
Part A: Directorate of Taxes
:__________ ___ _    Total  1994   1995       1996
Item                           $'000       '000       $'000      $'000
Foreign Cost
Tax Admin. Advisor             460         100         180        180
VAT Specialist                 190         100          90
System Designer                325          55         180         90
Traning                        370          90         140        140
Field visits                    40          20          10         10
Sub-total                    1385         365        60          420
Computers/Pilot                 S0          2S          25
Units
Sub-total                    1435         390        625         420
Contingencies                    5         100         165        100
Sub-total Foreign Cost       1800        490         790         520
Local Cost
Tax Admin Advisor                9          3           3           3
VAT Specialist                   6          3           3
System Designer                  4          1           2           1
Local Staff                      6          2           2           2
Equipment                                   3           2          -
Sub-total                      30          12         12           6
Contingencies                    6          _           2           2
Sub-total Local Cost           36          14          14          8
TOTAL (A)                    1836         504        804         528
'See Part C for the cost of equipment, other than VAT computers.



28                                  Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Part B: Customs Directorate
Total       1994       1995   |   1996
Item                          $'∞000      $'∞∞        $'000      $'∞O∞
Foreign Cost                   195         105         90
Technical Advisor.
Training2                      600         230        370
Field visits                    10          5           5
Sub-total                     805        340         465
Contingencies                   95         95
Sub-total Foreign Cost       900         435         465
Local Cost                       4           2          2
Technical Advisor
Local Staff                      2           1          I
Sub-total                      6           3           3
Contingencies                    2           1          1
Sub-total Local Cost            8          4           4
TOTAL (B)                      908         439        469
2 Includes $200,000 to be provided by EU-PHARE.



29                                 Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Adm       aon Modernization Project
Part C: Equipment
Total       I|          1995   |   1996
item                               $'000      $9000       $'000       $'000
Foreign Cost
Computers                          100          50         30          20
Office Equipment                   120          20         70          30
Special Equipment                  150          80         70
Refurbishment                      100          30         40          30
Vehicles                           800         200         400        200
Sub-total                        1270        380         610         280
Contingencies                      230          85          95         50
Subtotal Foreign Cost            1500        465         705         330
Loca Cost
Equipment                           70         35          30           5
Refurbishment                       10          5           5
Vehicles                            85          50         25          10
Sub-total                         165         90          60          15
Contingencies                       15          A           6           1
Sub-total Local Cost              180         98          66          16
TOTAL (C)                         1680       563         771         346
TOTAL (A+B+C)3                   4424        1506       2044         874
3The financing plan would be as follows:
TOTAL         LOCAL          FOREIGN
IDA                     $4.000.000                   $4,000,000
EU                      $  200,000                   $  200,000
GOVERNMENT              $  224,000    $224,000       $  224,000
TOTAL                                  S224.000
Costs exclude customs duties and taxes, from which the project wilH be exempt.



30                                       Attachment 3
_  -                                                                                Page 1 of 4
.-g 
)-l         __              _           _     __                  _               _
ji            eq _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _    T_l_l_l_
w       ~~I I                                                ___
-4__,__                                                                             15



31                                   Attachment 3
Page 2 of 4
0_
VII
ii,~~~~~~~~~~i
N                I
_I_                                      -   ___ _ _
0'       _ _ _    _ _ __ _           _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administraion Modernization Project
Project Implementation Schediue
Activity                                                     1996                                                                        1997
Tax Directorate                 -     2     3     4      5     6     7     8      9      10  I-    12       1    2      3    4      5    6      7     8     9      10    11      12
PHASE THREE
Develo2ment and ImPlementation (TA/TD)
(Sept 9-Se  97)
Evaluate systems for additional tunctions
Expand computer systems for other taxes
(Data entry, masterfile, filing,
accounring, non-filer and delinquent
detecdon systems)
Design output notices, bills and reports
Hardware acquisition
Develop/test software
Computer staff training
Expand conmterization in                 _                                                                                                               -     - _
other centrs 
'ti  rt
0 :3
M "
4>1 W



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Tax Administration Modernization Project
Project Implementation Schedule
Activity                                                    1994                                                                   1995
Customs Directorate                  1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9            10   11   12    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9             10   11   12
PHASE ONE
Oranization
(July-Sept 94)
Create Project Steering Committee (MoF)
Recruit interational expert (IMF/MoF)
Fnancial Police Issue
(Oct 94-Jan 95)
Develop a plan to clarify and delineate
the tasks of the Financial Police
and Customs (prepare law & regulations)
(RAIMP/oE)
Draft law and regulations concerning Financial
Police (MoP)
Pass law and regulations
Customs Internal Control (CA/CD)
(Oct. 94 -Jan 95)
Prepare a system of internal control
Implement the system
Measutes concermina customs collection and
S2Ml (CA/CD)
(Dec 94-Feb 95)
Cargo reporting and control procedurcs
Customs impont declaration processing
System to secure payment (transit)
Monitoring exemptions and refunds
Preoataion for the computerization of customs
urocedures in coordination with EC (CA/CD)
(Mar-Aug 95)
Assesstnent of the needs
Development of an implementation plan
Prepaation of a pilot project
0 3
P% "



34                                          Anachment 4
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
TAX ADMINISTRATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN AND SCHEDULE
For MaJor Packages
Total Cost                           Major Activities Schedule (Dates)
Nature of Package       Estimated    Method of
Ptourement    Issue of    Submission    Contract    Completion
Document   of Bids/Prop  Award/Sign   of Package
GOODS
Vehicles (1)             500,000        ICB          12/94         2/95         3/95          8/95
Vehicles (2)             500,000       ICB            3/95         5195         6/95         11195
CONSULTANT
SERVICES
Project Management*     2,450,000   Sole Source      11/93         11/93        6/94         12/96
~~~~~~~~~(IM)
4 A Technical Assistance Agreement was concluded between the Govemment and the IMP in June 1994. Under tis
Agreement, other consltant (including two long-tem advisors) will be appointed by the IMP, in accordance with
Bank guidelines.



