E-304
VOL. 9
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT III
KAIFENG-GONGJIAPENG ROAD
ZHENGYANG ROAD UPGRADING PROJECT
INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION
AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
HENAN INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION
March 2000






TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.   PROJECT  BRIEF .........................................................1
1.1       Project Description .........................................................1
1.2       Project Features .........................................................1
13        PProject Schedule .........................................................1
2.   ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING .......................................................3
2.1        Physio-Environmental Description .......................................................3
2.2        Eco-Environmental Description .........................................................4
2.3        Socioeconomic Description .........................................................4
3. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CLASSIFICATION AND RESULTS ............5
3.1       Applicable Standards ........................................................5
3.2        Classification Results ........................................................5
4.   POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS .................................................6
4.1        Standards Utilized .........................................................6
4.2       Environmental Impacts in Construction Stage ....................................6
4.3        Environmental Impacts in Operation Stage .........................................8
4.4        Conclusions ........................................................                     10
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION  PLAN .                                .......................................................  12
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN                                      ...................................... 12
5.1        Environmental Management Program ............................................... 12
5.2  Environmental Supervision Program .15
5.3  Environmental Monitoring Program .15
5.4  Environmental Cost Estimate .18
5.5  Personnel Training .18
6. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION    ..18
i






INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION (IEE)
1.    PROJECT BRIEF
1.1   Project Description
This report is oriented to the road upgrading project under the World Bank-financed
Henan Highway Project III in the poor parts of Henan Province. The project consists
of 11 components, which are separately described, by code and name, as follows:
1-1 Xiangcheng-Shangcai road from Shangcai County seat to the boundary of
Zhumadian and Zhoukou
2-1 Pingyu segment of Zhumadian-Xincai road
3-1 Shilihe-Zhangjiatucheng segment of G312 road
4-1 Guanji-Huabu bridge segment of G106 road
5-1 Zhaowanq bridge-Luoshan County seat segment of Kai-Gong road
5-2 Luoshan County seat-Gongjiapeng segment of Kai-Gong road
6-1 Guangshan-Mafan road
7-1 Shangcheng-Changzhuyuan road
8-1 Xinxian County seat-Hepu road
9-1 Dongjiahe-Tanjiahe road
10-1 Zhengyang road in Zhumadian Prefecture
This document is prepared as a supplementary to the IEE, which was completed in
November 1999, for these project components except for the last one.
Zhengyang road is Luhedian (k266+700) to Dalin (k294+700) in Zhengyang County,
Zhumadian Prefecture, covering a distance of 28 km. It is at Grade III in plain areas,
with a subgrade width of 7-12 m and a surface width of 7 m. When some segments
cut short under the upgrading project, it will have a subgrade width of 12 m and a
surface width of 12 m.
The before versus after technical grades and cost estimates are shown in Table 1-1.
The geographic locations of these roads are illustrated in Maps 1 and 2 attached
hereto.
1.2   Project Features
The project involves the upgrading of 11 components in rural parts of China.
Zhengyang road upgrading will be achieved by widening the subgrade and improving
the surface, which will increase the technical grade and capacity of existing road
without additional land use and large financial requirements.
Therefore, additional land acquisition and resettlement will not be involved in any
case.
1.3   Project Schedule
Upgrading of this component is scheduled to be commenced in 2000, and completed
and put into operation before cr after 2001, i.e. a construction period of 1 year.



Table 1-1  Summary of Road Upgrading Components
No.          Name            Length                      Existing Road                                  Upgrading Standard             lotal Cost Construction           Notes
(km)     Grade     Traffic  Subgrade   Surface   Degree of     Grade      Subgrade   Surface   Type of   ('0000       Period
Volume  Width (m) Width (m) Congestion                Width (m)  Width (m)  Surface   RMB)
I   Xiangcheng-Shangcai Road   43       III, IV    4317       12        6-7       1.46          11         12          9      Asphalt   4500      2000-2002  Present traffic volume refers to
from Shangcai to Boundary                                                                                                                                 standard moderate vehicles in
of Zhumadian and Zhoukou                                                                                                                                  1997.
2   Pingyu Segment of          31        III       2912       16         7         1.38         II         15          9      Asphalt   4500      2000-2002  Present traflic volume refcrs to
Zhumadian-Xincai Road                                                                                                                                     daily mixed traffic volume in
1998.
3   Shilihe-Zhangjiatucheng    34        III       2297       16         7         1.33         11          16        12      Asphalt   5040    2000-2002  Present traffic volIme refers to
Segment of G312 Road                                                                                                                                      standard moderate vehicles in
1997.
4   Guanji-Huabu Bridge        43         III      1342       16         9         1.19         II         16         12      Asphalt   5400    2000-2001  Present traffic volume refers to
Segment ofG106 Road                                                                                                                                       standard moderate vehicles in
1997.
5   Zhaowanq Bridge-Luoshan                        1669       16                   1.30         11          16        12      Asphalt   1650    2000-2001   Present traffic volume refers to
County Seat Segment of                                                                                                                                    standard moderate vehicles in
Kai-Gong Road                                                                                                                                             i997.
6   Luoshan County Seat-       49        IV        1699       16         7         1.30         III         16         7      Asphalt   1960    2000-2001   P resent traffic volume relers to
Gongjiapeng Segment of                                                                                                                                    standard moderate vehicles in
Kai-Gong Road                                                                                                                                             1997.
7   Guangshan-Mafan Road       32        IV        330        12         6        1.10         III         12          7      Asphalt    960      2000-2001  Present traffic volume refers to
standard moderate vehicles in
1997.
8   Shangcheng-Changzhuyuan   45    Unclassified   265        9         5-6        1.02         IV          9          6      Asphalt    900      2000-2000  Present traftic volume rccrs to
Road                                                                                                                                                      standard moderate vehicles in
_______          ~~~1995.
9   Xinxian County Seat-ilepu    48   Unclassified   487       8        3.5        1.22    Unclassified     8          7      Asphalt   2300    2000-2002  Present traffic volume refers to
Road                                                                                                                                                      standard moderate vehicles in
I                  1            ~~~~~~~~~~~1995.
10  Dongjiahe-Tanjiahe Road    36   Unclassified   350        9        None        1.01    Unclassified     9          7      Asphalt   2860    2000-2001  Present traffic volume refers to
standard moderate vehicles in
1995.
11  Zhengyang Road in          28         III      1078       12         7         1.10         1I         12         12      Asphalt   3590       2000-2001   Present traffic volume relfers to
Zhumadian Prefecture                                                                                                                                      standard daily vehicles in 1996
400                                                                                                       33600                                           l
Note: All of the  1 1 segments will be upgraded on the basis of existing roads, not involving any new  road, land acquisition or resettlement.
2



2.    ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING
2.1   Physio-Environmental Description
2.1.1 Geography and Topography
Among the 11 road upgrading components of the project, Zhengyang road in located
in Zhengyang County, Zhumadian Prefecture, in the flat and broad southern part of
Huang-Huai plain, adjacent to Xincai and Xi Counties in the east, Queshan County in
the west, Runan County in the north, and Luoshan and Xinyang Counties in the south.
It falls within the inclining plain area of the Dabie Mountain, with gentle slopes and
low mounts in the west and alluvial plains elsewhere. The land here declines from
northwest to southeast, with an average elevation of 78.8 m. Rivers in this region
includes Huai, Ru, Wenshu, Lu, Qingshui, Huangdagang and Tianbai. It generally
lowland, flat and open.
2.1.2 Climate
Zhengyang component is in Zhumadian prefecture, in the subtropical-temperate
transition zone where the continental monsoon climate is characterized by both
subtropical and temperate climatic features. There are 4 distinct seasons, including hot
summer and cold winter, with the rainy season coinciding with the hot one. According
to the long-term meteorological data from Zhumadian Prefecture, the climatic
parameters in the project area include: annual average temperature of 14.9°C (with the
maximum of 27.6°C in July and the minimum of 1.2°C in January), annual average
frost-free period of 228.7 days, annual sunshine duration of 2,171.9 h, and annual
precipitation of 941 mm, which concentrates in the summer and autumn, especially in
July. Due to the effect of air circulation, winds by north prevail in winter, whereas
winds by south prevail in summer. The annual average wind speed is 2-3 m/s.
2.1.3 Surface Water System
Zhengyang County, north of the Huai River, is free from any mountain and hill.
Rivers flowing through the county includes Huai, Ru, Qingshui, Lu, Tianbai, Wenshu
and Huangdagang. It is generally low plains, flat and open. Groundwater is locally at
a small depth. Cumulated water is found due to the blockage of surface runoff. The
proposed component is located in the Huai valley, which is briefed as follows:
The Huai River has its rise in Mount Tongbai in the west part of Henan Province and
flows through Henan, Anhui, Jiangsu and Shangdong. It is one of the major rivers of
China, the third largest in respect of main stem length and catchment area. More than
80% of Zhumadian Prefecture contributes to this river basin. The endpoint of the
project component is close to the main stem of the river.
Navigation requirement is posed on none of the major rivers in the project area.
The project will be focused on subgrade widening and surface improving, so as to
have a larger capacity of the existing roads. Not involving any bridge across the above
mentioned rivers, the project will not cause any impact on the surface water in these
rivers.
3



2.2   Eco-Environmental Description
Upgrading component No. 10-1 is located in plain rural areas, where the agricultural
ecosystem predominates in the regional ecological structure. Surface vegetation is
mainly artificial, crops are common species, and natural vegetation is mostly grass.
Biological variety in the project area is average, and the ecosystem composition is
relatively simple.
According to investigation results, there is no natural reserve in the project area, so
the project will not cause any impact to this effect.
Investigation results suggest that both fauna and flora in the range of 10 km on both
sides of the 11 roads are conmmon species, which generally do not require demanding
eco-environmental conditions. Neither rare and endangered species nor national
protection species is ever found in the project area.
2.3   Socioeconomic Description
The project component is in Zhengyang County on the north bank of the Huai River,
adjacent to Runan, Pingyu and Xincai Counties in the north, Queshan County and
Xinyang City in the west, Xi and Luoshan Counties in the southeast, with a total land
area of 1,889 km2 and a total population of 720,000. Zhengyang is a land-based
county, where industrial activities are less developed. In 1996, the GDP was 1.80279
billion RMB, i.e. 2,504 RMB per capita. The socioeconomy is obviously at a low
level. This is a large agricultural county, where agriculture plays an important role in
national economy. Grain crops are mainly wheat, soybean, corn and Chinese sorghum,
while cash crops mainly include rape, peanut, watermelon and sesame, etc.
4



3.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CLASSIFICATION AND RESULTS
3.1   Applicable Standards
Project components in Highway Network Improvement Program in Poverty Area can
be grouped into the following 2 categories according to their environmental impacts:
Category A: This category covers projects that do not cause any significant adverse
environmental impacts, including subgrade widening, surface improving and road
upgrading schemes. This category does not call for considerable land acquisition and
nearly does not involve new bridge/culvert construction. As stated in the World Bank
EIA guidelines, it is only required to have environmental action plans (EPA) for this
category.
Category B: This category refers to projects that may result in significant potential
adverse environmental impacts, including new highway projects, road widening and
upgrading projects which calls for considerable land acquisition, or environmental
improving projects intended to improve sensitive sites along highways. According to
relevant classification provisions, detailed EIA together is EAP is required for this
category.
3.2   Classification Results
Project component No. 10-1 is located in rural areas, not involving any special
environmental sensitive sites. It will be widened on the basis of the existing road, and
main works will go to surface improvement, not involving any additional land
acquisition. Better road conditions will result in reduction of traffic noise and exhaust
impacts. Adverse environmental impacts will only be encountered during
construction. According to the aforesaid classification standards, this component is
classified into Category A, for which EAP is required.
5



4.    POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The project component is oriented to subgrade upgrading, surface widening and
improving, without any additional land use, so there will not be any obvious biomass
reduction along the road. Moreover, both fauna and flora in the project area are
common species, which do not require any demanding ecological conditions. The
project will not cause any loss of species. Therefore, it is believed that the project will
not represent any significant ecosystem impacts.
Not involving any resettlement, the component will not cause by resettlement-related
environmental impacts.
Upon completion of the project, the road surface will be considerably bettered, which
will lead to lower dust content and higher driving speed. As a result, ambient noise
and air impacts by traffic noise and exhaust in the operation stage will be considerably
mitigated in comparison with the situation before the project implementation.
As investigated, there is no scenic spot, natural reserve, historical site, sanitarium or.
any other special environmental sensitive site in the range of 20 m on the roadside.
There will be no environmental impacts on such in the construction and operation
stages.
On the basis of what is described above, our environmental impact analysis is herein
focused on the environmental elements of acoustic environment and ambient air in the
construction stage.
4.1   Standards Utilized
The following environmental standards are herein applied to environmental impact
analysis:
Acoustic environment: "Standard for Ambient Noise Levels in Urban Areas"
(GB3096-93), 7OdB(A) for villages in the range of 200 m on roadside in day time
and 55dB(A) in night time,55dB(A) for hospitals and schools in day and 45dB(A)
in night time in this range;
Ambient air: Class II standard as clefined in "Standard for Ambient Air Quality"
(GB3095-1996).
4.2   Environmental Impacts in Construction Stage
The existing road has a subgrade width of 7-12 m and a surface width of 7 m. Due to
long-time disrepair, there are many pits in the surface, which considerably reduces the
capacity of the road. The upgrading project is to repair the surface and widen it to a
width of 9 m, which will achieve a better surface and a larger capacity. Without any
additional land acquisition, possible environmental impacts in the construction stage
will be mainly encountered in the following aspects.
4.2.1.1 Noise Impacts
Additional acoustic environmental elements due to the construction of this project
component includes:
a. Traffic noise during construction: Many trucks will be engaged in transporting
6



sand, stone, asphalt and cement among other building materials, which will result
in larger traffic volumes and higher traffic noise levels.
b. Construction equipment noise: Noise to be caused by asphalt concrete batching
plants, generators, spreaders and rollers among other construction equipment will
also pose some environmental impacts in the construction stage. According to
available analogue monitoring and forecast results, such construction equipment
will cause equivalent ambient noise levels higher than 7OdB(A) within 50 m
around the construction site, though the impacts beyond this range will be less.
c. Road surface construction will undoubtedly interfere with traffic and reduce
driving speed, and even cause traffic jam. Also, traffic noise impacts along the
alignment will be increased to some extent.
This road segment, just like rural roads in other parts of China, is in a serious situation
of mixed traffic. The road passes through Luhedian, Xiazhuang, Huangshan,
Gaozhuang, Wangzhai, Tongzhong, Xiaolizhuang, Baocitang, Liulijing and Dali
villages and townships, which are already fairs of different sizes. Among these,
Luhedian, Tongzhong and Dalin are the places of township governments. Houses in
the first row on both sides of the road have been converted to shops and restaurants,
few of them are resided. These shops and restaurants will act as construction noise
and traffic noise barriers. Construction activities, if suspended in nighttime, are
expected to only cause minor impacts, if any, on the local residents living behind.
There are hospitals and schools at the above mentioned 3 townships, but they are all at
a distance of more than 200 mm away from the road, essentially free from the noise
impacts by construction activities. Tongzhong Middle School is only 50 m away from
the toad, but the 2 m high fence between the teaching building and the road acts as a
noise barrier, so noise impacts during construction will be minor.
4.2.2 Ambient Air Impacts
Ambient air pollution subsequent to subgrade upgrading and surface widening will be
mainly in the following aspects:
a. Fugitive dust arising out of lime-soil mixing: In light of the available conditions
along the road, decentral lime-soil mixing (i.e. roadside mixing) will be employed
for subbase upgrading purposes. Such fugitive dust is not large in amount, but it
causes air impacts at many points at a long distance. Therefore, ambient air in the
immediate vicinity may be susceptible to such fugitive dust impacts. According to
monitoring results from elsewhere, fugitive dust from lime-soil mixing activities
affects the range 100 m leeward of mixing sites, especially the range 50 m
leeward, and TSP in ambient air is subsequently higher than the standard. As the
construction period of lime-soil mixing activities is generally short, their dust
impacts disappear as lime-soil mixing and subbase upgrading activities are
completed.
b. Dust from vehicles: During the road construction period, many specially-designed
machines will be engaged (e.g. roller and spreader). Also, higher dust contents
7



will result from road construction. Construction equipment will add to the content
of road dust due to normal traffic, which will worsen the ambient air impacts
along the road. According to previous monitoring data, the range of traffic dust
impacts during construction of roacls is generally not farther than 100 m leeward.
Such air impacts can be effectively controlled by road watering.
c. Dust and asphalt smoke from asphalt batching plant: The road will be paved with
asphalt to be mixed at central batching plants. As the road is proposed to be
divided into two lots, at least 2 batching plants will be provided in the
construction stage. A certain amount of dust will be produced by material hauling
and asphalt concrete mixing equipment. This part of dust will be collected and
discharged through air conduits, representing point-source pollution discharge.
Additionally, the existing asphalt concrete mixing equipment at these two sites is
equipped with any dust removing facilities, so there will not be any major dust
impacts in the leeward. Another characteristic pollutant from asphalt concrete
batching plants is asphalt smoke, 'which mainly stems from the asphalt melting
process and represents central point-source pollution discharge. As asphalt
melting is mostly carried out by low-temperature melting technologies, the
amount of resultant smoke is not large, and the concentration and rate of smoke
discharge meet Class II standard cof "Comprehensive Standard for Air Pollutant
Discharge" (GB16297-1996). According to previous monitoring results, asphalt
smoke from asphalt concrete batching plants affects the area 50 m leeward, but
such impacts beyond 50 m are minor.
4.2.3 Other Environmental Impacts
As this segment will be upgraded on the basis of the existing road, without additional
land acquisition, it will not cause any fuirther farmland damage or ecosystem impact
along the alignment.
Since bridges and culverts involved in the road are not many in number, and all of
them will be consolidated or widened on the basis of existing ones, without any new
bridge and culvert, there will not be any obvious impacts on surface runoff systems
and irrigation facilities during the construction stage.
The proposed road is located in plain areas with a small number of slopes, there is
thus less soil erosion. With a low subgrade structure and less slopes, soil erosion will
not be further aggravated in the construction stage.
4.3   Environmental Impacts in Operation Stage
Environmental impacts in the operation stage of this road will be mainly in the aspect
of traffic noise and vehicle exhaust. The wider and better road surface free from pits
will greatly reduce traffic noise. Assuming an equal traffic volume, traffic noise
impacts on both sides of the road will be significantly less in comparison with the
situation without the project. At the sanie time, higher speed will enable vehicles to go
at economical speed, low speed and even idling will be considerably reduced. As a
result, CO and other polluting materials; contained in vehicle exhaust will be cut down
to some extent, and ambient air impacts will be subsequently reduced. The improved
8



road surface will result in less dust on the road, and air impacts by fugitive dust will
be also reduced.
4.3.1 Traffic Noise Impacts
With the road upgraded, the induced traffic volume increase, plus the original traffic
volume increase due to economic growth, will be considerably lager than the present
volume. According to relevant studies and also forecast results of other Grades II and
III roads, when traffic volumes are larger than 4,000 vehicles/d (converted to standard
moderate vehicles), equivalent traffic noise levels in the immediate range on the
roadside (generally 50 m) during day peak traffic volumes and in night time may
exceed the standard, i.e. higher than 7OdB(A) and 55dB(A) respectively. The traffic
volume on this road will be increased to more than 4,000 vehicles/d from 2016, so
traffic noise levels exceeding the standard will not be encountered until that year.
As above mentioned, this is a township-village road subject to serious mixed traffic
where it passes through villages and townships, and buildings on both sides of the
road are used as shops and restaurants, which act as effective traffic noise barriers. As
a result, traffic noise levels are cut down by about I OdB(A), and ambient noise levels
at the houses behind do not exceed the standard values. Most of the traffic volume on
this township-village road happens in night time, so equivalent ambient noise levels at
the houses in night time will not exceed the standard, either.
Hospitals and schools except for Tongzhong Middle School are all 200 m beyond the
road, so they will be essentially free from traffic noise impacts in the operation stage.
The said middle school is on the east side of the road, at a distance of only 50 m, but
the 2 m high fence between the teaching building and the road will attenuates traffic
noise, so noise impacts during the initial operation stage, if any, will be minor.
However, major impacts will be encountered in the late operation stage. For the
purpose of noise impact control, it is recommended that the north fence be raised from
2 m to 3 m.
4.3.2 Ambient Air Impacts
Exhaust from vehicles will be the major air pollution source in the operation stage.
The improved surface will result in lower dust contents, so fugitive dust arising out of
vehicles and subsequent dust pollution will not be significant.
Based on ambient air impact forecasts from other highways in plain areas, CO hourly
and daily average concentrations under general diffusion conditions do not exceed the
standard. When the traffic volume is larger than 5,000 vehicles/d, excess of NO,
hourly average concentrations are sometimes found in the immediate range on both
sides of the road during day peak traffic volumes, but the range is generally not larger
than 50 m on both sides. The traffic volume on the proposed road will not be so large
until 2019, so NO, hourly average concentrations during day peak traffic volumes in
the range of 50 m will not exceed the standard until that year.
4.3.3 Other Environmental Impacts
With a low subgrade structure adopted, the upgraded road will cause neither adverse
impacts on the normal communication of the local residents, nor significant social
9



segregation.
With the road improved, the local communication will be more convenient, which will
be helpful for promoting the regional socioeconomic development and improving the
people's livelihood.
4.4    Conclusions
4.4.1 Construction Stage
The project component will be upgraded on the basis of existing road. Main works
will be mainly in the field of subgrade/surface upgrading and widening for the
purpose of a larger capacity, without any additional land acquisition and resettlement.
Thus, the environmental impacts in the construction stage will be mostly encountered
in the following aspects.
a. The vicinity of construction sites will be affected by noise from construction
equipment and hauling trucks. With half of the width remaining open to traffic
while construction proceeds on the other half, normal traffic noise on the road
will also cause some environmental impacts.
b. Due to the air impacts by fugitive dust and asphalt smoke arising out of lime-soil
mixing, building material hauling and asphalt concrete mixing activities, TSP
contained in the ambient air close to construction sites may exceed the standard.
c. Investigation suggests that there is neither scenic spot and natural reserve among
other special sensitive sites, nor rare and endangered species in the range 10 km.
d. Since bridges and culverts involved in the road are not many in number, and all of
them will be consolidated or widened on the basis of existing ones, without any
new bridge and culvert, there will not be any obvious impacts on surface runoff
systems and ecosystems during the construction stage.
Eco-environmental impacts during the construction stage, if any, will be minor either.
This component, as being located in plain and microhilly areas, will not cause any
considerable increase of soil erosion in the construction stage.
4.4.2 Operation Stage
a. When the roads are completed and put into service, the considerably better road
surface free from pits will greatly reduce traffic noise. Assuming an equal traffic
volume, traffic noise impacts on both sides of the road will be significantly less in
comparison with the situation without the project. At the same time, higher speed
will enable the reduction of pollutants contained in vehicle exhaust, which will
mitigate exhaust pollution to some extent.
b. Due to the normal growth and induced growth, the traffic volume on improved
road will be larger and larger from year to year, subsequently traffic noise impacts
on both sides of the road will be more and more serious. In this case, equivalent
traffic noise levels above the standards will be sometimes encountered during day
peak traffic volumes in the early and middle operation periods.
10



c. In the middle and late operation periods, NO, hourly average concentrations will
be found above the standard in some cases, but the duration will not be long, and
ambient air quality will not be obviously deteriorated.
d. This project component, when completed, will do good to promoting the regional
socioeconomic progress and improving the people's living standard and quality of
life.
11



ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
5.    ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
0  Basis of Preparation
a. State Council Order No. 253 "Regulations for Environmental Management of
Construction Projects"
b. "Circular Letter on Enhancement of EIA Management under International
Financing Organization-Financed Construction Projects" issued by the State
Planning Commission, State Economic and Trade Commission, People's Bank of
China and National Environment Project Agency in letter No. 324 (1993)
c. World Bank Operational Manual, OP, BP, GP4.01, January, 1999
*  Organization of EAP
a. Environmental management program: develop environmental impact mitigation/
offsetting measures
b. Environmental supervision program: prepare action plans for the implementation
of various environmental impact mitigation/offsetting measures
c. Environmental monitoring program: prepare environmental monitoring programs
for both construction and operation stages
d. Enviromnent protection cost estimate: prepare cost estimates required for the
various environmental impact mitigation/offsetting measures
5.1   Environmental Management Plrogram
5.1.1  Environmental Management Laws and Regulations
a. Law of Environment Protection, PRC
b. Law of Air Pollution Control, PRC
c. Law of Water Pollution Control, PRC
d. Regulations for Noise Pollution Control, PRC
e. Law of Soil Conservation, PRC
f. Tentative Regulations for Water Pollution Management in Huai Basin
g. Regulations for Environmental Management under Construction Projects
5.1.2 Applicable Standards
a. Standard of Ambient Air Quality (GB3095-1996)
b. Standard of Ambient Noise in Urban Areas (GB3096-93)
c. Noise Limits for Boundary of Construction Sites (GB12523-90)
d. Comprehensive Standard of Sewage Discharge (GB8978-1996)
e. Comprehensive Standard of Air Pollutant Discharge (GB16297-1996)
5.1.3 Environment Protection Action Plan for Feasibility Study State
Environment protection action plans for the feasibility stage mainly include IEE and
EAP. This task is undertaken by Henan Institute of Environment Protection as
commissioned by Henan Department of Transportation.
5.1.4 Environment Protection Action Plan for Design Stage
As prove by many facts, adequate attention to various adverse impacts in construction
and operation stages and provision of corresponding mitigation/offsetting measures in
the design stage is an economical, efficient and reasonable way to avoid or mitigate
the possible adverse environmental impacts subsequent to the project construction.
The following engineering measures are required to be incorporated into the design
12



stage of the project for which is report is prepared:
a. Longitudinal allocation of soil works will be properly arranged, in light of the
project features, to minimize borrow area operations. Where large quantities of
soil are required for subgrade upgrading purposes, soil materials will be taken
from side ditches, wherever possible, so as to minimize farmland damages.
b. Adequate attention will be given to surface drainage in the project design, with
side ditches improved together roads to ensure smooth drainage and avoid surface
drainage directly flowing into farmland.
c. For the roads in mountainous and heavy hillyland areas, slope protection of road
embankments will be properly handled and retailing walls will be considered for
road segments with large excavations, such that soil erosion will be reduced.
d. Afforestation for slopes and both sides will be designed together with the main
works, with plant species properly selected and afforestation costs ensured.
e. The designer will conduct detailed investigation of environmental features along
the alignment, with asphalt concrete batching plants properly selected (or lime-
soil mixers where central lime-soil mixing will be applied) and located far from
any residential site, hospital and school among other sensitive sites, at a distance
of more than 200 m on the leeward of such.
f. The annual precipitation in Xinyang is over 1,000 mm, so construction activities
will be arranged to escape the rainy season from June to September, whenever
possible.
5.1.5 Environment Protection Action Plan for Construction Stage
According to the mentioned environmental impact analysis as previous stated in this
document, environmental impacts in the construction stage will be mainly in the field
of noise and dust resulting from construction activities, so environment protection
measures will be accordingly as follows:
a. Any land for the use of camps and other temporary works will be identified in
wasteland or less cultivable land, wherever possible, so as to minimize the use of
farmland.
b. Construction schedules will be properly arranged to avoid construction activities
from 22:00 pm to 6:00 am where any residential site, hospital or school is at a
distance of less than 200 m, thus avoiding construction noise impacts on such
sensitive sites.
c. To minimize construction noise impacts on any school close to the road segment,
the fence on the side facing the road will be raised, as appropriate, prior to the
start of any construction activities.
d. The contractor for each lot will be obliged to carry out adequate education among
his personnel, and require them not to step on farmland and avoid vegetation
damage. During construction of the roads in mountainous and heavy hillyland
13



areas, the construction works will be ensured against hunting.
e. House refuse from camps will be gathered delivered to designated places for
proper disposal on a regular basis. Sanitary sewage from camps will be simply
treated before discharged, rather than directly led to surface waters.
f. Subgrades under construction, or earth roads for hauling trucks, or any other sites
giving rise to dust will be watered at least twice a day, once in the morning and
once in the afternoon, or more frequently in the dry season.
g. Bulk material hauling trucks will be covered, and stockpile areas will be located
adequately far from any residential site, hospital and school, or on the leeward of
such sensitive sites, with a distance of more than 200 m kept in between.
Materials will be covered in the event of rainy, snowy and windy days.
h. Lime-soil and asphalt concrete mixing will be performed in enclosed equipment,
whenever possible, and low-temperature melting technologies will be applied to
asphalt melting.
i. Close cooperation will be sought from highway administration and traffic police
departments, to facilitate normal traffic management, traffic accident prevention
and traffic jam reduction in the construction stage. This will mitigate traffic noise
and exhaust impacts along the roads.
j. Afforestation will be completed sinmultaneously with the main works.
5.1.6 Environment Protection Action Plan for Operation Stage
a. Vehicle management will be strengthened, and any vehicle failing to meet the
national traffic noise and exhaust standards will not be allowed onto the road.
b. Horning will be forbidden in night times, with marks to this effect provided 100 m
in front of residential sites, hospitals and schools. Lamps instead of horns will be
used for overtaking purposes in night times. Driving speed will be limited, as
necessary, at the above mentioned sensitive sites.
c. Separating facilities will be provided at residential sites, hospitals and schools
where there are frequent human activities, and pedestrian crossings will be
provided for the purpose of personal safety.
d. Trucks carrying any toxic, harmful and dangerous matters will be accompanied by
permits issued by public security and highway administration authorities, and
every possible measure will be taken for the avoidance of traffic accidents.
e. The provision of residential sites, hospitals and schools among other facilities
requiring high environmental quality will not be allowed in the range of 100 m on
both sides.
The sensitive sites where fences will be raised in the construction and operation
14



stages, together with the time for action, are summarized in Table 5-1.
Table 5-1   Summary of Sensitive Sites for Fence Raising
Component    Sensitive    Distance from                Measure               Time for
No.           Site         Road (m)                                       Action
10-1         Tongzhong             50       Raising  85  m   fence  on 2000
Middle School                  roadside from 2 m to 3 m      I
The above listed fence will be raised by 85 m. Assuming a unit cost of 70 RMB/m2,
the financial requirement is estimated at 60,000 RMB.
5.2    Environmental Supervision Program
To guarantee the earnest implementation of various environment protection measures
as proposed in the environmental management program, an environmental supervision
program is herein developed as shown in Table 5-2.
5.3    Environmental Monitoring Program
5.3.1  Objective
The objective of environmental monitoring is to keep informed of the environmental
quality in the construction and operation stages, especially the environmental quality
at sensitive sites, such that control and mitigating/offsetting measures will be taken,
against the environmental problems revealed by monitoring results, to ensure against
any obvious environmental quality deterioration due to the construction and operation
of roads.
5.3.2 Responsibilities
In consideration of the project features and the capabilities of the local environmental
monitoring agencies, environmental monitoring under component No. 10-1 in both
construction and operation stages will be commissioned to Zhumadian Prefecture
Environmental Monitoring Station.
Table 5-2   Environmental Supervision Program
Interval    Responsibility               Task                            Target
Feasibility   World Bank    Completion of IEE and EAP            I. IEE is required to reflect the
Study Stage  Henan Department                                      present environmental
of Transportation                                      features and potential
environmental impacts in the
project area;
2. Environmental impact
mitigating/offsetting
measures will be proposed,
with adequate schemes
developed to ensure their
implementation.
Design &    Project office,    1. Review of environment protection  1. Environmental facilities will
Construction environment       design and cost estimate included in  be designed, constructed and
Stages      protection agency    preliminary design;               operated simultaneously
2. Review of asphalt concrete batching  with main works;
plants (and also lime-soil mixers for   2. Full-scale implementation of
15



some roadls), bulk material stockpile  EAP will be ensured;
areas and camps;                  3. Construction dust and noise
3. Review of various construction noise    impacts on villages,
and dust control and mitigation     hospitals, schools and any
measures proposed in EAP;           other sensitive sites will be
4. Check ancl supervision of sewage and    minimized;
solid wastes discharge from camps;   4. Sewage discharge from
5. Inspection and supervision of       camps will be ensured
environmental monitoring program    against major environmental
implementation for construction stage;   impacts.
6. Investigat'ion and treatment of any
environmental accidents during
construction.
Operation    Transportation    I. Review of EAP implementation during I. Earnest implementation of
Stage       agency,            construction;                       EAP will be ensured;
environment     2. Review of environmental monitoring  2. Environmental monitoring
protection agency    program in operation stage;       program will be guaranteed;
3. Review of environmental quality at   3. Villages, schools and
villages, hospitals, schools and other  hospitals among other
sensitive sites;                    sensitive sites will be
4. Cooperation in respect of investigation   ensured of good
and treatmrent of environmental     enviromnental quality and
accidents.                          human health;
4. Possible adverse impacts by
traffic accidents will be
=_________________________ _________________________________    mitigated and prevented.
The responsibility for environmental supervision will be with the local highway
administration, transportation and environment protection agencies involved in the
project.
5.3.3 Tasks
Environmental monitoring tasks to be accomplished in construction and operation
stages are separately given in Tables 5-3 through 5-6.
Table 5-3   Environmental Monitoring Program for Construction Stage
Environmental   Component        Monitoring Point           Monitoring Frequency
Element           No.
Construction  2 points on the road    Irregular spot check, not less than
site and                             4 times a year, 2 consecutive days
boundary                             each time, once in the morning
and once in the afternoon
Ambient Noise   10-1            2 points, one at       Not less than 4 times a year, in the
Xiazhuang and          middle of January, April, July and
another at Tongzhong   October respectively, 2
consecutive days each time, once
in the morning and once in the
afternoon
ditto         The same as above,    Measurement of dust in and on
but only I point at    leeward of each construction site,
Ambient Air                     each sensitive site    with dust catchers replaced on a
Imonthly basis; twice a year
16



elsewhere (in January and July),
consecutive 5 days each time
Table 5-4   Environmental Monitoring Factors in Construction Stage
Environmental Element                     Monitoring Factor
Ambient Noise                     Equivalent ambient noise levels day and time
Ambient Air                       Asphalt smoke (only applicable to  asphalt
concrete batching plant), TSP, dust (in
construction site and leeward)
Table 5-5   Environmental Monitoring Program for Operation Stage
Environmental  Component        Monitoring Point         Monitoring Frequency
Element        No.
10-1       2 points, one at Xiazhuang and   4 times a year, in the middle
the other at Tongzhong      of January, April, July and
Ambient Noise                                          October respectively, 2
consecutive days each time,
once in the moming and
once in the afternoon
ditto      The same as above, but only I   Twice a year (in January
Ambient Air               point at each sensitive site  and July), consecutive 5
(outside school)            days each time
Table 5-6   Environmental Monitoring Factor in Operation Stage
Environmental Element                     Monitoring Factor
Ambient Noise                     Equivalent ambient noise levels day and time
Ambient Air                       NOR, CO, TSP
5.3.4 Process for Submission of Environmental Monitoring Data
Environmental monitoring data to be obtained in both construction and operation
stages will be submitted in the process as shown below.
Figure 5-1 Process for Environmental Monitoring Data Submission
|  World Bank      l
T Ea          CHenan Department of Transpotation 
Henan Environmental MonitoringCenter I   Henan Highway Administration
Zhumadian Environment Protection Agency |_,_t
hmi  Zhumadian Translrtation Bureau
17



Zhumadian Environmental Monitoring Agency
5.4   Environmental Cost Estimate
The cost estimate for the project is as shown in Table 5-7.
Table 5-7  Environmental Cost Estimate
Item           Cost ('0000 RMB)       Environmental Benefit
Raising of hospital/school    C0.6         Reduction of noise impacts in
fence on roadside                          construction and operation stages
Provision of watering car      1]0         Mitigation of dust pollution in
construction stage
Road afforestation              8          Mitigation of noise and exhaust
impacts in operation stage
Personnel training             2.5        Improvement of environmental
knowledge
Environmental monitoring       7.5         Understanding of environmental
in construction stage                      quality, technical support for
Environmental monitoring       25          pollution control measures
in operation stage (20-year
service life)
Total                          53.6
5.5   Personnel Training
Zhumadian Prefecture and Zhengyang are involved in the project component. Full-
time environmental managers of the prefecture/county highway administration
agencies and part-time environmental managers of the contractors, 3 in total, will be
trained together with those responsible for Zhumadian expressway including its
connecting roads. As tentatively arranged, the place of training will be Zhengzhou,
and the duration will be one month, but the specific time is to be determined under the
expressway.
Training services will not be arranged for the personnel of Zhumadian/Xinyang
Environmental Monitoring Station as they have already received strict technical
training.
6.    PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Public participation was conducted by the IEE team during the investigation of
environmental status. This was mainly carried out by means of interviews, which
involved a total number 30 people in different trades, including 2 county/city'
NPC/CPPCC (National People's Congress/Chinese People's Political Consultative
Conference) members, 25 farmers (83 %) and 4 people (13%) in other trades.
According to the consultation results, as the project will neither require any additional
land acquisition and resettlement, nor involve the immediate interests of the local
18



people while greatly benefiting the local communications and people's livelihood, the
public is all for the construction of the project and willing to render active support and
corporation such that the project will be started as soon as possible.
19






Subtable    Summary of Environment Protection Measures by Stages
Environmental                                     Environment Protection Measure                                    Implementation        Supervision
Issue                                                                                                           Responsibility      Responsibility
Design Stage
Soil Works          Longitudinal allocation of soil works will be properly handled to minimize borrow area operations. Where Designer  Henan Department of
large quantities of soil are required for subgrade upgrading purposes, soil materials will be taken from side     Transport, Henan
ditches, wherever possible, so as to minimize farmiand damages.                                                   Highway Administration
Soil Erosion        1. Attention will be attached to slope and roadside afforestation, with plant species carefully selected.         Agency, World Bank
Noise Disturbance    I . Low-noise construction equipment will be selected;
2.  Trucks in good conditions will be used for transporting of building materials.
Air Pollution       I.  Asphalt concrete batching plants (lime-soil mixers) will be properly selected and located on the leeward
of any environmental sensitive sites, with a distance of at least 200 m in between;
2.  Enclosed equipment will be selected for asphalt concrete batching plants (or lime-soil mixers), with dust
removers provided to reduce dust discharges.
Water Pollution     Adequate attention will be given to road surface drainage, with side ditches improved at the same time of
subgrade upgrading. Surface drainage will be directly discharged into farmland.
Construction Stage
Land Use            Land use for temporary purposes will be located in wasteland or less cultivable land, wherever possible, to Contractor  Henan Department of
minimize the use of farmland. Where it does be necessary to use any farmland, adequate compensation will be        Transport, Henan
made according to the time of occupation and restoration.                                                          Highway Administration
Construction Noise   1.  School/hospital fences within 200 on the roadside will be raised prior to the start of construction;          Agency, Zhumadian
2.  Construction will be suspended from 22:00 pm to 6:00 am;                                                       transport, highway and
3.  Normal traffic management will be strengthened to avoid/mitigate traffic accidents and jams.                   environment protection
Construction Dust   I.  Construction sites, or earth roads for hauling trucks, or any road segments giving rise to dust will be        agencies
watered at least twice a day, once in the morning and once in the afternoon, or more frequently in the dry
season;
2.  Bulk material hauling trucks will be covered, and stockpile areas will be also covered in the event of
rainy, snowy and windy days;
3.  Lime-soil and asphalt concrete mixing will be carefully located on the leeward of sensitive sites, with a
distance of at least 200 m kept in between;
4.  Bulk material stockpile areas will be properly identified on the leeward of sensitive sites, with a distance
over 200 m kept in between.
20



Environmental                                      Environment Protection Measure                                    Implementation        Supervision
Issue                                                                                                            Responsibility       Responsibility
Ecological Impact    I.  Any surface vegetation damaged as a result of temporary land use will be recovered as soon as
construction is completed;
2. Afforestation will be completed simultaneously with the main works.
Camp                Sanitary sewage from camps will be simply treated before discharged. House refuse will be gathered and
delivered to designated places for regular disposal.
Operation Stage
Traffic Noise       I. Homing will be forbidden in sensitive sites, with marks to this effect provided 100 m in front of such County highway County transport, public
sites;                                                                                         administration   security &  environment
2.  Lamps instead of horns will be used for overtaking purposes in night times;                    and traffic police protection authorities
3.  Driving speed will be limited, as necessary, at sensitive sites;                               authorities
4.  It is recommended that Tongzhong Middle School fence be raised from 2 to 3 m as construction goes on.
Vehicle Exhaust     I.  Exhaust discharge monitoring will be strengthened, and any vehicle failing the applicable national
standard will not be allowed on the road;
2.  It is inadvisable for any new residential site, school, hospital and any other sensitive site to be built in the
range of 200 m on both sides.
Traffic Safety      I.  Separating facilities will be provided at residential sites, hospitals and schools where there are frequent
human activities, and pedestrian crossings will be provided for the purpose of personal safety;
2.  Enhanced education in traffic safety will be carried out;
3.  Trucks carrying any toxic, harmful and dangerous matters will be accompanied by permits issued by
public security and highway administration authorities, and every possible measure will be taken for the
avoidance of traffic accidents.
21



