Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20193-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
THIRD HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 15, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
RMB Yuan 100= US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = 8.26 RMB Yuan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BZE       - Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway          IRR        - Internal Rate of Return
CAS       - Country Assistance Strategy         LGTS    - Leading Group for Traffic Safety
CPMS      - Chinese Pavement Management System  LRIPC    - Local Roads Improvement in the Poor
Counties
EA        - Environmental Assessment            MOC       - Ministry of Communication
EAP       - Environmental Action Plan           NTHS    - National Trunk Highway System
EIA       - Environmental Impact Assessment     PCD      - Provincial Communications Departments
EMW       - Electro-Mechanical Works            PEO      - Project Execution Office
ENPV      - Economic Net Present Value          PIP       - Project Implementation Plan
ES        - Executive Summary                   QCBS    - Quality and Cost Based Selection
FCUO      - Foreign Capital Utilization Office  QCMC    - Quality Control and Monitoring Center
GOVAI   - Gross Output Value of Agriculture and  RAP     - Resettlement Action Plan
Industry
HAB       - Highway Administration Bureau       RDB      - Road Data Bank
HPCD      - Henan Provincial Communications     RIPA      - Roads Improvement for Poverty
Department                                     Alleviation
HPCDHQ  - Henan Provincial Communications       TSS       - Traffic Safety Secretariat
Department Head Office
HPSPDI   - Henan Provincial Survey, Planning and  VOC     - Vehicle Operating Cost
Design Institute
IEE       - Initial Environmental Evaluation    ZXE      - Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jacques Tollie



CHINA
THIRD HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                         12
3. Technical                                                                         13
4. Institutional                                                                     13
5. Social                                                                            14
6. Environment                                                                       15
7. Participatory Approach                                                            16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    17
2. Critical risks                                                                    17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    18



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           18
2. Other                                                                             18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            24
Annex 2.1: Institutional Development and Reform in Henan Highway Sector       30
Annex 2.2: Summary of Training Program                                        36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           73
Annex 11: Major Related Projects Financed by Development Agencies                       75
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                              76
Annex 13: Review of Financial Management System                                         81
Annex 14: Road Management Improvement                                                   90
MAP(S)
IBRD 30686 National Trunk Highway System
IBRD 30687   Henan Highway Transport System
IBRD 30688 Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway



CHINA
Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: April 15, 2000                             Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang            Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P058844                              Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         [l Credit       Dg Grant       OI Guarantee    D Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 150
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
LFfha L " lA. n1. ,,,,, -g ,,,,,,,,,a                                      , .     .
GOVERNMENT                                                  210.00           0.00        210.00
IBRD                                                          0.00         150.00         150.00
IDA
Total:                                                      210.00         150.00        360.00
Borrower: THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: HENAN PROVINCIAL COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
HPCD
Address: No.91, Zhongyuan Avenue, Zhengzhou, Henan 450052, China
Contact Person: Mr. Shi Faliang, Deputy Director
Tel: 86-371-7449770                Fax: 86-371-7449862               Email: wwgg@public2.zz.ha.cn
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2001          -    - -                           005 2Q6.
Annual     4.0         40.0         45.0       40.0        16.0         5.0
Cumulative     4.0         44.0        89.0       129.0      145.0        150.0
Project implementation period: June 2000-June 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2000) Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD FPn- Rev. -0h. 2,Oa



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project aims at providing a more efficient and effective transport infrastructure in support of
social and economic development in Henan Province.
To meet the above development objective, the project will produce the following outputs:
a) traffic congestion reduced and mobility enhanced in the Zhumadian-Xinyang corridor, a key
section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS);
b) accessibility to the poor areas in the province improved; and
c) efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network enhanced through
institutional and management measures in support of improved asset maintenance, safety and
construction quality, while preparing the sector for commercialization opportunities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal outcome/impact indicators selected for monitoring progress towards the above
development objectives are:
1. Reduction in transport costs.
2. Gross output value of agriculture and industry in affected counties.
3. Balance of provincial expenditures programs (i) between new construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance, and (ii) between classes of roads.
4. Percentage of road maintenance expenditures put out to competitive tender, and responsiveness
and effectiveness of maintenance programs.
5. Traffic accident rates on new and existing highways.
6. Financial performance of expressway company in terms of debt repayment and O&M
expenditures.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107 (CAS Progress Report) 05/06/98             Date of latest CAS
discussion: 05/28/98
The CAS, which reflects the Bank's strategic objectives of fostering growth, reducing poverty,
supporting better governance, and improving the environment, has identified infrastructure improvement as
a key area of China's development agenda to be supported by the Bank.
The sector-specific goals supported by the project are:
*   contribution to growth through removal of highway bottlenecks, thus facilitating
inter-provincial trade and commerce;
*   contribution to poverty reduction through improving rural accessibility in poor counties of
Henan, which is a transition province between the coastal areas and the western provinces;
*  better governance through improved sector management and rationalized road expenditures;
and
*   improving environment through continuous attention to traffic safety and
environmental/social impacts.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Gover nment strategy:
Several important pieces of sector work have been carried out by the Bank in the last five years: (i)
Highway Development and Management: Issues, Options and Strategies (1994); (ii) A Strategy for the
Transport Sector (Forward with One Spirit, 1997/98); (iii) OED Report on China Transport (1998); and
(iv) Review of Highway Technical Assistance (1999). These, together with a few high-level dissemination
seminars, have led to the identification of five main challenges facing China in its attempt to cope with the
rapid expansion of its highway network, summarized in the note on "China Highway Sector Issues" of
February 1999, as well as in more recent discussions on an updated highway sector strategy, as follows:
1. Building sector institutions. The sustainability of the highway sector greatly depends on the
strength of its provincial and local highway institutions to address the growing challenges of road traffic
safety, construction quality standards and control, road asset preservation, network expansion, market
responsive facility provision and resource mobilization. Institutional fragmentation within and between
levels of government needs stronger attention. For instance, any effective solution to the daunting road
safety issue will require stronger coordination between the provincial communications departments (PCDs)
and the traffic police which is part of another department. Similarly, to commercialize and corporatize the
provincial road agencies, particularly those with stable toll-based revenues, there is a need to restructure
them into commercial entities such as shareholding companies or toll road authorities. To support such
reforms sector institutions will require new skills and a better understanding of new practices to effectively
play the roles of tomorrow.
2. Strengthening Resource mobilization. The Chinese government faces a daunting challenge of
resource mobilization to meet future needs for the construction and maintenance of its highway system.
The recent regional crisis and a fragile local financial sector are severe constraints on borrowings,
specifically in the intemational markets while the potential for private fnancing remains limited under the
current economic and regulatory environment. China has had only limited success in attracting debt
finance for,the provision of highways. It has had much more success in attracting equity finance. Most of
this finance come from the listing of existing operating companies on both local and intemational stock
markets and the sale of minority shareholding (some of these transactions have involved Bank-financed
assets). The number of highway projects that can be marketed (those with strong traffic revenue potential)
to private sector investors are insignificant compared to the sector's resource requirements (see D. 1.1
below). Under these conditions the focus should be on building a reliable and stable road user fee based
financing framework. In parallel, regulatory reforms would be necessary to open opportunities for different
modes of public-private partnerships, to mobilize domestic savings through the issuance of bonds and to
broaden the investor base. A fuel tax, under consideration, promises revenue higher than the current
provincial road maintenance fee while at the same time, it would offer new options for debt financing.
3. Enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas. The geography of China poses heavy
demand and difficulty on the provision of basic road access in various parts of the country, particularly in
inner and low income provinces. Although the role of transport access to integrate the national economy, to
stimulate growth in remote areas, and to insure basic mobility needs of the poor has been emphasized, the
task is enormous and requires significant public resources. The Bank's provincial highway program in
China aims to favorably impact poverty levels, through targeted interventions in low income areas. But
provincial and central government agencies often refrain from borrowing for this purpose since no
dedicated revenue source for loan repayment is easily identified (unlike for toll roads). A renewed effort is
recommended to support road development in low income areas as part of the Bank's future lending and
non-lending services for the sector.
-3 -



4. Sustaining road maintenance. Due to the rapid pace of road expansion in many provinces,
maintenance funds are diverted to construction of new roads. The current trend and practice may soon
become unsustainable unless sector institutions and the existing framework for resource mobilization are
developed to address the future maintenance needs. In the past central and provincial road agencies have
resisted Bank funding for road maintenance on grounds that the loan funds are urgently needed for the
construction of revenue-generating new high-grade highways rather than the non-tolled roads which do not
generate dedicated revenue for loan repayment. A stronger effort on behalf of the Bank and the relevant
Chinese sector institutions is recommended to make road maintenance a more integral and prominent part
of future Bank highway projects. Of specific importance in this increasingly challenging area are
comprehensive policy and institutional reform initiatives so as to put sector agencies in a position to
conduct and sustain road maintenance activities. PCDs need to be encouraged to develop a sustainable
road maintenance policy, refine their road information systems for direct use in maintenance planning and
operations, develop sustainable funding mechanisms and adjust their organizational structures and training
programs to devote more resources to maintenance.
5. Improving construction quality. Highway construction quality remains a serious concern of
the sector. Recent incidences of bridge and road failings or premature wear and tear of highway pavements
have raised awareness of the issue to high-level government officials. The problem has both technical and
administrative roots. Contractors, mostly domestic, are not always well managed, frequently face irregular
payments, and often come under pressure to shorten the construction period. In some cases, quality control
suffers due to the lack of authority assigned to the construction supervision agency by the owner vis-a-vis
contractors. While the central government appreciates Bank involvement in the sector leading generally to
improved design reviews, supervision and resulting construction quality, there is a definite need to reinforce
strict construction quality standards, control and enforcement in future Bank highway loans.
Government Strategy. In the medium term, the main concerns of the central and provincial
highway authorities are to ensure that the highway system helps integrate China's national economy and
facilitates mobility of goods and services. This should correspond to the comparative economic and
technological advantages of highways vis-a-vis other modes of transport and to available financial
resources. Under such strategy, the investment priority for the highway sub-sector during its Ninth
Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) were identified as follows:
1. high priority was given to developing rapidly the National Trunk Highway System. The
Ministry of Communication (MOC) has identified about 35,000 km of highways throughout the country
that would constitute a network of modem inter-provincial highways under the NTHS. These are targeted
for completion by year 2010. The first phase of the NTHS investment (totaling 17,000 km) concentrates
on 2 vertical, 2 horizontal and 3 connections to seaports. According to MOC's estimates the entire 17,000
km of NTHS Phase I should be completed by 2003. The construction of the second phase (additional 3
vertical and 5 horizontal trunk highways) will continue until 2020 when the entire system is expected to be
completed;
2. development of provincial and rural roads that would feed into the NTHS was planned
simultaneously in order to maximize the benefit of NTHS investment;
3. high priority was also given to providing all-weather access roads to remote/low income areas
in the poor counties; and
4. policy and regulation reforms to be intensified with priority attention given to financing issues
and to ensuring efficient utilization of funds.
-4 -



This strategy has already succeeded in some respects. Of the identified 17,000 km of NTHS Phase
I, construction of about 7,500 km have been completed and another 4,500 km more will be completed by
the end of 2000. On the poverty a]leviation front, substantial achievements are also to be noted; in the case
of Henan, the provincial government has made substantial investments to rural roads, providing basic
all-weather accessibility to most counties and villages by the end of 1998 (see C. 1 .B below). However,
policy reforms have lagged. The plan to introduce a fuel tax to replace the old system of road maintenance
would represent an important step in establishing a stable road user, fee-based financing framework, along
with increasing the decentralization of investment decisions from the central to provincial levels. However,
this plan, approved by the People's Congress on November 1, 1999, is still awaiting final promulgation by
the State Council.
Under the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) under preparation, highway reforms are expected to
intensify in the context of the country's move towards a more open and competitive economy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project, which is the fourth highway project in the province, will address most of the issues
mentioned above. Each of the previous projects (Henan Highway Project, National Highway Project, and
Second Henan Highway project, all ongoing and at different stages of implementation) has attempted to
tackle some of these issues, and one important task during project preparation was to take stock of past
achievements, clarify/confirm the policy and institutional goals, and agree on the remaining steps to meet
these goals.
Building sector institutions. The project will pursue efforts in three main areas:
*  Road safety: a study of "Factors Contributing to Road Accidents" has just been completed
under the Second Henan Highway Project, and recommendations regarding improved data
collection and preparation of a blackspot program are being implemented. More needs to be
done, regarding in particular safety audits, overloading and driver behavior. The crucial role
of the "Leading Group" bringing together Henan Provincial Communications Department
(HPCD) and the Traffic Police will formally continue under the project.
*   Commercialization of toll highways: the province has invested heavily in high-grade toll
highways which, as revenue-generating infrastructure assets, lend themselves to more
commercialized and corporatized forms of operation and management. The project will
support the province's move in that direction, drawing from the study of "Organization,
Management and Mainitenance of Toll Highways", just completed under the Second Henan
Provincial Highway Project.
*   Trade facilitation: two studies were completed with generally satisfactory results: (i) the
Trucking Industry Study (1994/95) under the Henan Highway Project, and (ii) the Traffic
Facilitation Study (1995196) under the National Highway Project. There is now much less
involvement from government in the trucking industry, and good harmonization of traffic/toll
rates between Henan and Hebei in the north. Problems which remain are the extent of
overloading and the less-than-expected use of larger trucks. The project will ensure that
interprovincial trade is also facilitated towards Hubei in the south.
Strengthening Resource mobilization. The potential for private sector involvement in the
investments contemplated under the project is minimal as explained in para. D. 1. 1 below, so the strategic
choice here is clearly for a public provision of the infrastructure. Once completed, the expressway will be
under the management of the provincial Expressway Management Company, whose further
commercialization will be supported under the project. The project will also create the conditions for an
easier implementation in the province of the fuel tax reform when it is enacted.
- 5 -



Enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas. Under the Second Henan Provincial
Highway Project, a program of Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation aimed at improving accessibility
to the poorest counties in the province is under implementation, and results so far are encouraging. The
project will pursue this objective, by complementing the important efforts made by the provincial
government in terms of social infrastructure.
Sustaining road maintenance. The earlier Bank dialogue on this issue with the province has been
useful to raise awareness and understanding of the extent of the problem. The province is supposed to
maintain a Road Data Bank (RDB) that would feed into the provincial version of the Chinese Pavement
Management System (CPMS), but neither of these systems are fully operational. Currently planning of
maintenance operations is done without much scientific support and cannot easily compete with the
program of network expansion. The project will support the operationalization of both the RDB and the
CPMS so that the province can establish a sound and balanced expenditures program. This will also be
crucially important when the fuel tax reform will be implemented in the province. The project will also
support HPCD's efforts for maintenance contracting, by ensuring that an increasing proportion of
maintenance works will be contracted out during the project period.
Improving construction quality. In addition to ensuring that all safeguard policies are enforced
in terms of procurement and selection of contractors, the project will focus on three aspects. Firstly to
improve the engineering design, the project will provide technical assistance for a research study on the
optimal design of pavements on heavy-loaded roads. This is required because most trunk roads in the
province suffer from heavy traffic, especially with the expansion of trade. Secondly construction
supervision needs to be strengthened, and the project will focus on optimizing the involvement of the
foreign partner in the joint local-foreign supervision team. Thirdly, both the Design Institute and the
Quality Control and Monitoring Center (QCMC), which are crucial links at both ends of the construction
quality chain, have been targeted under the Institutional Strengthening/Training program (the QCMC was
established by HPCD in mid-1997, in the wake of a few incidences of road and bridge failings which had
occurred earlier that year in other provinces).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
To meet the three outputs mentioned in para. A. I above, the project includes the following
components:
A. Increased capacity in main north-south corridor. This component includes:
i)  construction of an expressway on the Zhumadian-Xinyang section which is part of the 2,600
km long Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway (BZE). The length of BZE in Henan province is about
525 km, and except for the project section, all other parts of BZE in Henan are either
completed or under construction;
ii) five linking roads to maximize the impact of the expressway; and
iii) to facilitate the operational phase, provision of buildings/service areas, traffic engineering,
and equipment for O&M.
B. Improved accessibility in poor counties.
In Henan, there are 18 prefectures, 11 8 counties, 2,148 townships and 47,000 villages. Of these
118 counties, 34 counties have been designated as "poor counties" (28 by the state and an additional 6 by
the province). In 1995, these poor counties of Henan had 21,800 km of roads, of which only 40% were
-6 -



all-weather roads. Six of the townships and 11,000 villages did not have road access. HPCD has been
making substantial investments in rural roads in recent years, with the result that by the end of 1999,
HPCD expects to complete the provision of all-weather roads to all but 650 villages which will be left with
seasonal roads. These are mostly in the remote mountain areas. The remoteness of these villages, their
small population size, and the costly mountain terrain make it a major challenge for HPCD, which expects
to complete the program by the end of 2000. The Bank contributed under the Second Henan Highway
Project, through the "Roads Improvement for Poverty Alleviation (RIPA)" program consisting of 30 RIPA
road systems in 29 poor counties. This involved rehabilitating, upgrading and new construction of 1,667
km of roads, costing about US$70.2 million. The implementation of this RIPA component is scheduled for
completion by the end of year 2000.
The initial thrust of the project was to increase the all-weather accessibility for those poor villages
in the two project prefectures that do not have such access now. However it became clear during project
preparation that this basic concept was already satisfactorily dealt with by HPCD at the province level. To
show their commitment, HPCD agreed to formally commit to complete the basic accessibility program in
Zhumadian and Xinyang prefectures by the end of 2000 using their own funds; this commitment relates to
the remaining 98 villages in the eight poor counties in the influence area of the project (see para. D.4
below). Given these conditions, the project now concentrates on enhancing the economic activity in the two
prefectures through a program of Local Roads Improvement in the Poor Counties (LRIPC). This program
consists of rehabilitating/improving about 400 km of local roads in the eight poor counties, using selection
procedures similar to the ones used under the RIPA program.
C. Enhanced sector management.
This component will further strengthen provincial highway planning and design, contract
management, traffic and transport information management, computer network technology and application,
highway operation management and research agencies through (1) training of technical and managerial
personnel to strengthen / foster their capabilities for their current jobs / future careers; (2) provision of
hardware and equipment necessary for performance of new functions; (3) expansion of the roles of
scientific research and quality control agencies within the province and across the country; (4) assistance in
implementation of the action plans for (i) road management improvement, (ii) commercialization of toll
highways, (iii) road safety and (iv) trade facilitation; and (5) establishment of a Provincial Conceptual
Framework for Traffic Engineering Systems on Expressways in the province. The relevant institutional
and policy actions are described in Annex 2.1 which provides an outline of the various action plans that
would be consolidated into an "Institutional Development and Reform Plan" (para. G.2.2.f. below). Annex
2.2 provides a summary of the trainirng programs that will be carried out under the project.
-7 -



A. Increased capacity in main      Highways
north-south corridor:
A.1 expressway                                     235.74       65.6    119.00      79.3
A.2 linking roads                                   24.43        6.8      9.69       6.5
A.3 construction supervision                        10.13        2.8      2.33        1.6
A.4 equipment for O&M                                1.84        0.5      1.50        1.0
A.5 land acquisition/resettlement                   24.01        6.7      0.00        0.0
B. Improved accessibility in poor  Rural Roads        42.58        11.8     13.60       9.1
counties
C. Enhanced sector management:     Institutional
Development
C.1 institu. strengthening/training                  0.59        0.2      0.38       0.3
C.2 traffic safety, road manage-                     1.20        0.3      0.70       0.5
ment, pavement study
C.3 specialized equipment                            1.71        0.5      1.30       0.9
Total Project Costs                  342.23       95.2    148.50       99.0
Interest during construction                15.80        4.4      0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                    1.50        0.4       1.50       1.0
Total Financing Required                   359.53      100.0    150.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
One key policy reform which would have a positive impact on project sustainability is the
establishment of the fuel tax which would replace several existing road user fees. Once enacted, such
reform would lead to improved resource mobilization, sustainable road maintenance, and more balanced
provincial road expenditures programs, but this may take some time. To reap these benefits in as short a
timeframe as possible, the province needs to be well prepared. Although for obvious reasons this reform is
not a project conditionality, the project is designed to support its implementation in the province through
the Road Management Improvement Program.
Another key institutional reform is the drive from traditional road agencies towards
commercialization and corporatization of toll highways in the province. The options for improved forms of
organization and management were analyzed under a recently completed study, an action plan based on the
study's recommendations has been developed, and HPCD is committed to implement this action plan under
the project (see Annex 2.1).
3. Benefits and target population:
The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction of vehicle operating costs and time
costs for road users. The expressways will have shorter lengths, improved surface conditions and riding
comfort, improved geometry, reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than the existing roads.
Therefore, most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local traffic is expected to divert from the
existing roads to the new expressways. In parallel, there will be a reduction in the current congestion levels
on the existing roads.
-8 -



The project will also benefit residents of poor counties in the province, through improved access to
health, education and other social services as well as to markets. The total affected population in the
expressway corridor between Zumadian and Xinyang is estimated at about 1.85 million, and the affected
population in poor counties is estimated at 4.6 million (see Annex 2, LRIPC Table).
Other benefits which are non-quantifiable, would include strengthening the capabilities of the
provincial agencies and their related institutions which are responsible for the planning, design, financing,
supervision, construction, operation and maintenance of highways in Henan. Also, the project is expected
to result in lower traffic accident rates on the highway network through the implementation of the traffic
safety component. Furthermore, the proposed project should lead to improvements in the quality of
construction of highways through the continuing introduction of improved technology and stricter
arrangements for supervision of construction. The project would also foster improved practices in the
areas of environment, land acquisition and resettlement of affected people and participatory approaches to
project preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementaticon arrangements:
The Henan Provincial Commnunications Department (BPCD) has the overall responsibility for
project preparation and implementation. Under HPCD, the Henan Provincial Expressway Construction
Bureau, the executing agency for the other Bank-financed expressway projects in the province, would also
be the executing agency for the proposed Zumadian-Xinyang expressway. Other project components such
as the interconnecting road program, the rural road program, the studies, traffic safety and training
components and the procurement of equipment would be executed by the Highway Administration Bureau
(HAB) and the Foreign Capital Utilization Office (FCUO) under HPCD. The project would be
implemented during 2000- 2005. Overall direction of the project at the central level would rest with the
MOC. MOC will assume an oversight role and provide some technical support. The Bank loan would be
granted to the Borrower, the People's Republic of China, which in turn would onlend the loan proceeds to
Henan Province on the same conditions.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1 Public/private provision: Private sector development and fnancing for the
Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) was considered but not retained for two main reasons: (i) China
is still developing an appropriate policy, legal and regulatory framework for the private provision of toll
highways. Work in this area has been ongoing for several years with Bank and IFC support, and at the
recent request of SDPC, the Bank Group is presently undertaking a new private infrastructure TA which
will review, and recommend improvements to, China's existing framework for private participation in
infrastructure. (ii) The second reason, is the growing evidence on a worldwide scale that greenfield toll road
projects are difficult to develop and (mance from private sector sources, due to the risk profile of such
projects. Besides the country risk (legal and regulatory) and the commercial risk (traffic demand), there are
substantial construction and completion risks which most private toll road developers and their commercial
lenders are not prepared to accept. MAany private toll road projects around the world (e.g. Dulles Greenway
in Virginia; MI/15 Motorways in Hungary; or the Mexican Toll Road Program, among others) which have
been built during the 1990s are failing to generate sufficient revenues to enable timely debt service and
therefore need complex restructuring, often connected with substantial government bailouts. Therefore a
strategic choice was made to (i) provide the infrastructure from public funds and (ii) work with the
-9-



province on an improved framework for commercialization of the agency that would operate ZXE once
completed. This is consistent with the goal of asset securitization or concessioning which is currently the
preferred method from the government for involving the private sector in investment funding/managing.
1.2 Route alternatives: Considering the existing and future socio-economic development and
growth potential in the area of influence of the project, and the existing and future volumes and
composition of traffic in the corridor as well as the capacity of the existing modes of traffic (rail and road),
the proposed ZXE has been selected as the most economical way of meeting existing and future needs in the
Zhengzhou-Wuhan corridor. The option of improving the existing 4-lane national highway was considered
and rejected based on the findings in the prefeasibility studies. The selection of the ZXE alignment as
analyzed in the prefeasibility and feasibility studies has also taken into account potential environmental and
resettlement impacts, thus allowing to avoid or at least minimize these impacts in the final selection of the
ZXE alignment.
1.3 Design standards: Alternative technical standards (lane number/width, bridge types, staging,
etc.) have been considered as part of the optimization of the engineering design.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Lates  uevso
Secto!r Issue                      Project,                (PR 0 0 :f   ;atg..09 000 L{iSwi~ngs
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
(Please refer to Annex I 1)
Other development agencies
(Please refer to Annex 11)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
While the overall performance of the large Bank highway portfolio is by and large satisfactory, a
number of problems have occurred, which have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
These problems include: inadequate engineering designs and bid documents including costing of civil
works; quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical and mechanical facilities
component (which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated the extension of the closing
date of several Bank loans), and slow pace of policy and institutional reforms, specifically relating to road
financing (resource mobilization and balance of expenditures), improved high-grade highway management
and operation, and traffic safety.
A recent OED assessment on the China portfolio has clearly determined that the policy dialogue
between China and the Bank in the highway sector needs to be further strengthened. During preparation of
the proposed project, the focus was on engaging HPCD in a continuing policy dialogue which had started
with the preparation of the first Henan Highway Project. While the results of these efforts are encouraging,
in that policy and institutional reforms now enjoy a higher degree of visibility and ownership with HPCD,
much remains to be done during implementation of the ongoing and new projects so as to make policy and
institutional reform components rank on an equal level with road construction and network capacity
expansion. The Region is developing a more proactive approach in this area by, for example, staffing
- 1 0 -



project preparation and supervision missions more regularly with experienced institutional and policy
experts, and by advancing the sector policy dialogue with MOC through more frequent policy workshops
which then feed into project design.
Regarding the drive towards commercialization of toll highways, recent experience from other
countries which have gone through the same process shows that it takes a substantial amount of time to
establish and make operational such corporations and to change the management style and systems of
traditional road agencies. This is mainly due to the fact that the implementation has to go hand in hand
with education, training, purchasing of equipment and the adaptation of existing systems and techniques to
the new demands. In the Henan case, the analysis of options, discussion of recommendations and
development of the action plan were carried out under the Second Henan Highway Project, and
implementation of the agreed action plan will take place under the proposed project. Hence this process
has been designed to span two projects, which provides better likelihood for satisfactory achievements.
Finally, experience with rural roads in South Asia and Africa, as well as with the Bank's Shaanxi
Highway Project and Second Henan Highway Project in China, has shown that provision of basic access
through all-weather roads and provision of non-motorized transport are effective means of reducing poverty
in rural areas, especially when combined with programs for socio-economic development.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is strong support from the various levels of Government, firstly on the physical component.
The Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway is the central element of the much larger Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
Corridor (Jing-Zhu) which, with a tolal length of some 2,600 kmn, constitutes China's highest priority
highway investment. Since the province has already secured funding for the section between Xinyang and
Hubei Border, the project's ZXE is thte last gap in the Jing-Zhu corridor. HPCD has completed project
preparation in a relatively short period of time. Secondly, the borrower has shown strong ownership of the
poverty alleviation objective, by formally committing to achieve 100% accessibility to villages in the poor
counties of Zhumadian and Xinyang prefectures. Finally, the borrower is committed to achieving concrete
results in terms of capacity building, by agreeing to follow through on recommendations of recently
completed studies in the areas of road safety (a "Policy Statement on Traffic Safety" was approved in
February 2000), commercialization of toll highways (a five-year Action Plan has been agreed which will be
monitored under the project), and trade facilitation (a "Memorandum of Understanding for Coordination
with Hubei province" was signed on "December 16, 1999). The Institutional Development and Reform
matrix in Annex 2.1 provides details on such commitments.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is already heavily involved in the financing of several other high priority sections in the
Jing-Zhu corridor through the First, Second and Third National Highway Projects which are all ongoing
and progressing well, as well as through the Fourth National Highway Project which has just become
effective. The continued involvemenit of the Bank would result in the removal of highway bottlenecks and
increased traffic capacity in this high priority transport corridor. But more importantly, it would accelerate
policy, institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design, supervision, construction,
operation and maintenance, and create the conditions for improved resource mobilization (preparing the
province for the introduction of the fiuel tax and further commercialization of road agencies). Bank
involvement would also contribute to improving the design and construction quality of the roads under the
project.
- 1 1-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$200.2 million; ERR = 20.5 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
This economic evaluation covers two project components that account for most of the project
costs: (a) construction of Zhumadian- Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) including construction or upgrading of
five linking roads, and (b) upgrading of ten local roads under the Local Road Improvement in Poor
Counties (LRIPC) Program to help the poor areas in the project counties. The principal measured benefits
of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs, time savings to vehicle occupants and enhanced road
safety. The estimated overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project is 20.5%, with those
for ZXE and LRIPC being 19.0% and 30.9%, respectively. The overall economic net present value
(ENPV), based on 12% discount rate is estimated at Yuan 1,661.5 million, of which ZXE is estimated to
contribute Yuan 1,246.5 million and Yuan 415.0 million for LRIPC. An analysis of the evaluation results
and a description of the method used to derive them are provided in Annex 4 and summarized as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
EIRR (in %)      ENPV (Yuan
million, 12%)
a) Zhumadian - Xinyang Expressway:
Zhumadian - Queshan                            16.0             134.6
Queshan - Minggang                             25.0             787.0
Minggang - Xinyang                             15.9             324.9
Subtotal                       19.0             1,246.5
b) Local Roads Improvement in Poor Counties      30.9              415.0
Total                         20.5             1,661.5
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 111.6 million; FRR = 9.2 %
Construction of ZXE is the main component of the project and the only one that would generate
revenues. All the ten local roads to be upgraded under the project are toll free. The province is planning to
use the toll revenue from ZXE to cover the loan amortization charges. Although the highway will generate
enough total revenue over the loan period, with a standard amortization schedule, there will be cash deficits
in the early years (2006 and 2012) when ZXE starts to repay the loan. These annual deficits can be met by
transferring the reserve funds from previous years. The FIRR for ZXE is expected to be 9.2 percent. The
expected financial NPV of excess revenue, once all maintenance, operating and loan repayment have been
met, is positive for the province and equivalent to Yuan 923.9 million (at 6 percent discount rate). For non
revenue earning entities (the toll free roads), the financial evaluation is focused on the availability of
sufficient counterpart funds and the operating expenses include the financial risks for the project roads. All
the indicators show that the financial risks for these toll free roads are modest. A detailed assessment is
provided in Annex 5.
- 12 -



Fiscal Impact:
The expenditures on road construction and maintenance for the "toll-free" roads included in the
project constitute only a small fraction of HPCD fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact would be minimal.
Based on the HPCD plan, the capital: investment for the LRIPC program is less than 2.4 percent of annual
total HPCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure for LRIPC is less than 0.7 percent
of total maintenance expenditure of HPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest
financial risk regarding availability of counterpart fund for construction and maintenance of the project
roads (see Section F.2 below).
3. Technical:
A thorough review of the engineering design has been planned in two phases. The first, which is to
review the preliminary design, took place in October 1999. The second phase, to review the final design
and bidding documents, is expected to take place in May-June 2000. The findings of the first review
indicated that the quality of design was generally satisfactory but could be improved on two counts:
i) need to increase the number of surveys/testing for road materials and on sites of bridges
foundations; and
ii) the designer made extensive use of underpasses for grade separation, to accommodate the local
governments wishes to avoid any hindrance to the local population in respect of crossing the
expressway with their means of transport. The results are very high embankments and huge
quantities of fill in the first half section which is running in flat terrain. Recommendations
were made to lower the vertical alignment to the maximum extent possible.
These recommendations have been considered by BPCD in the final engineering design.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The main executing agency is HPCD, assisted by the Project Execution Office (PEO) of the
Foreign Capital Utilization Office which will coordinate all project activities. A Project Construction
Command Post will be in charge of construction of the expressway. Upon completion, the expressway will
be operated by the Henan Expressway Administration Bureau or an operation company which may be
established by then. Construction of other highways under the project will be handled by the Highway
Administration Bureau. The IST component including procurement of equipment will be managed by
HPCD.
b. Project management:
All the above agencies are fiilly familiar with Bank procedures after managing three Bank projects.
Full ownership has been taken by HPCD management of the project objectives, especially the institutional
components which will require continued strong commitment from HPCD. PEO have carefully prepared
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) where all implementation arrangements and responsibilities have
been clearly defined. Two ongoing projects will be completed in July 2000, when the proposed project is
expected to become effective. There-fore no capacity problem is expected for HPCD and PEO to manage
all these projects concurrently.
- 13 -



c. Financial Management and Disbursement:
An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system is provided in Annex
13: Review of Financial Management System. The results of the review and corresponding Action Plan to
address the measures needed to improve capacities are included in Attachment I of the Review. In terms of
disbursement technique, the project will be utilizing the traditional disbursement technique as opposed to
using the PMR-based disbursement system. Issues were raised with the borrower's and the project
implementing entities about compliance with audit covenants in the ongoing Bank-financed projects. These
issues have been properly dealt with during the October 1999 supervision mission and the appraisal
mission (see Annex 13 Section V: Intemal Controls for details). Also see Section VII: Project Reporting
Requirements, for details regarding agreements reached with the borrower on standards and formats for
audited financial statements and timetable for their submission.
5. Social:
The impact of the project can be summarized as follows:
Component   Permanent land   Temporary land   Houses     Persons affected   costs
(hectares)     (hectares)     (sq.m)                       (RMB m.)
Expressway         605             92.3         31752          4920          218.75
Linking roads      45.3            45.8         11941          3666           23.45
LRIPC               -               -       I            I -            -
Total         650.3           138.1         43693          8586          242.20
A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared for each of the expressway and the linking
roads, in accordance with the requirements of OD 4.30. The RAP contains a summary of socio-economic
data and impact of the project, a list of applicable laws and rules, the estimated compensation costs, the
institutional arrangements for resettlement implementation, the public consultation and grievance
procedures, and terms of reference for monitoring the impact of the project on the social environment.
For the LRIPC program, there will be no change in alignment and no land acquisition and
resettlement are anticipated. Nevertheless, a Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared; and in the
event any acquisition of land, temporarily or permanently, becomes necessary, prior to commencing work,
Henan will prepare and implement a resettlement action plan in accordance with the Resettlement Policy
Framework.
Preparation of the RAP has benefited from the experience gained under previous projects and in
particular from the findings of the thematic (resettlement) supervision missions, such as:
*   crucial role of the Resettlement Coordination Group to harmonize the work of: (i) the various
units dealing with RAP preparation in HPCD and (ii) the provincial and local units dealing
with RAP implementation;
* thorough planning of all implementation activities that have to take place once the RAP has
been issued, including training of local implementation units; and
*  need for clear mechanisms for defining compensation rates based on replacement costs.
These lessons have been incorporated in the RAP. In addition there has been extensive
consultation with affected people as well as with local governments that will have to manage the
resettlement activities. Public participation in the process was adequate throughout RAP preparation
starting from the initial surveys in mid 1998 up to November 1999 when the document was finalized.
Project information was provided through newspapers, posters and public meetings. Focus groups were
- 14 -



held and interviews were conducted extensively with local officials and the communities to: (a) further
disseminate project information, (b) identify residents' concerns, and (c) consult those affected about
resettlement and rehabilitation strategies. As a result, the project impact could be minimized, considering
that the percentage of land required permanently vis-a-vis the total land of affected villages is less than 4%.
Consequently, all affected people are expected to receive replacement land within the same community, and
to be able to maintain their current activities.
The RAP and the Resettlement Policy Framework were made public locally in the HPCD offices in
December 1999, and following receipt of a letter of agreement on release from HPCD, these documents
were sent to the PIC in December 1999.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: A
Environmental assessment activities took place from mid 1998, when surveys were carried out, up
to December 1999 when documents were finalized. An environmental assessment (EA) was carried out for
the ZXE and its linking roads. During its preparation and evaluation, Chinese national procedures as well
as those required by the Bank in OP 4.01, were thoroughly followed. The EA documents such as
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report, Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Executive
Summary (ES) were reviewed by the Bank and discussed with HPCD during the Preparation Mission in
March 1999 and the Pre-Appraisal Mission in October 1999. The draft final EA documents of ZXE and
its linking roads were submitted to the Bank in November 1999, and found satisfactory. A sectoral
environmental assessment approach was applied to LRIPC. The sectoral environmental action plan
(composed of the Initial Environmenlal Examination (IEE) and EAP report) was submitted to the Bank in
December 1999. The major findings and discussions in these documents are summarized below. More
detailed information on the EA of ZXE, its linking roads and LRIPC components is attached as Annex 12
to this document.
A. Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) and its Linking Roads
Potential Impacts. Major potential environmental impacts include noise and air pollution during
the construction and operation phases, water pollution during the construction phase. There are no natural
habitats and environmentally protected areas along the project sites and no protected fauna and flora
observed either. There are no cultural relics found.
Mitigation Measures. The ],AP specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements to implement the EAP, training, and the cost estimate of
implementation of EAP. Major mitigation measures include adequate selection of alignment; watering to
prevent dust during the construction phase; and noise protection measures including relocation of villages
and school, and construction of noise barriers.
The engineering design and technical specifications for the ZXE and its linking roads have
incorporated appropriate measures required for environmental protection. It was ascertained that the
proposed highway would not affect ecologically sensitive areas, and that its construction and operation
would have no significant adverse impacts on the environment through the implementation of the EAP. The
HPCD would fumish to the Bank by January 31 of each year starting in 2001, an annual environmental
monitoring report during the construction phase and for each of the first three years following completion
of construction.
- 15 -



B. Local Roads Improvement in the Poor Counties (LRIPC)
No new construction will be included in the LRIPC Program. There are no natural protection
zones and no cultural property in the project areas. Since the construction works are small in size, no
significant potential impacts of the projects are envisaged. Appropriate mitigation measures have been
integrated in the sectoral EAP and found satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
Public Consultation and Feedback. During the EA work, the local people have been intensively
consulted. The following approaches have been adopted for public consultation under this project: (i)
Consultation meetings with local people, council representatives, local governments and enterprises; and
(ii) Questionnaire analysis of public opinion supplemented by interviews. The public showed concerns
about irrigation disruption, community separation and environmental protection during construction, and
requested to take adequate mitigation measures. These feedback has been reflected in the engineering
designs (for instance, there is a high density of underpasses to accommodate the local population) and in
the EAP.
Information Disclosure. Final EIA, EAP and ES were submitted to the Bank in December 1999.
These environmental documents were made public locally at HPCD also in December 1999. Following
receipt of a letter of agreement on release from HPCD, these documents were sent to the PIC and to the
Board on December 29, 1999.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The affected communities were involved in the formulation and comparison of alternative
alignments as well as the location of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations. During the EIA
preparation, the local people were intensively consulted through meetings with local government
representatives and public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews. The environmental
documents for the project were made public locally.
Special attention was given to the consultation with affected people and their representatives during
the preparation of the resettlement action plans. Implementation of the resettlement program is proposed to
be a highly participatory exercise. A resettlement information booklet, including detailed entitlements of
each household, main contents of the RAPs, compensation and entitlement policies and grievance
procedures will be distributed to the affected people prior to resettlement implementation. Both internal
and external (by independent monitors) monitoring of the resettlement program will be conducted.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The HPCD and its related institutions, as well as the Provincial Finance Offices, were heavily
involved in all aspects of project preparation. They had a major influence on project design, especially the
institutional strengthening and training components contained in the project.
16 -



8. Safeguard Policies
The following safeguard policies which apply to the project have all been complied with under the
project:
Policy                                      Applicability
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              3 Yes E No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     El Yes M No
El Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      O Yes   No
El Pest Management (                                                E4i09  Yes  No
El Cultural Property fOPN 11.03'         -li Yes'Z No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     El Yes 3 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               | Yes El No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4L7)                                 [I Yes IZ No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50 GP 7.50)      E Yes 3 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas f(P 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            l Yes IZ No
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Traffic volumes on highways are expected to continue to grow. Experience from completed and
ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China shows a high commitment for implementation of the
physical components of the project which account for the majority of the project cost. In addition, HPCD
has shown strong commitment to the institutional objectives of the project.
The level of tolls and the need for their periodic review are important for the financial viability of
the project and the ability to repay the Bank loan as well as to provide timely and needed maintenance.
More generally, project sustainability would be enhanced by an early enactment of the fuel tax reform.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Internalization of improved procedures for  M         Detailed TOR for all services, and close
sector organization, management, and                  supervision from Bank missions.
operation.
Continued commitment to implement TA's      M         HPCD demonstrated a high level of ownership
final recommendations.                               in the preparation of the various action plans.
Reorganization of HPCD not disruptive,      S         Assurance was obtained on stability of core staff
instead taken as an opportunity to                   involved in project management.
improve efficiency.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart resources available in timely   M         Strong commitment from Provincial
manner                                                Government. Also, MOC is providing a
substantial contribution.
- 17 -



Incentives are adequate to obtain good      S         HPCD took strong measures to reinforce
performance from the selected contractors             accountability in 1997. Careful review of
and consultants                                       procurement awards and strict contract
supervision.
Political pressure do not interfere with    S         PIP was carefully prepared by HPCD; should be
realistic implementation plan and quality             maintained as main tool for project management.
requirements.
Opportunities are opened to trainees to     M         Demand is high for skilled staff and is likely to
apply new skills in workplace.                       remain so.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The most likely controversial aspect of project implementation between Bank supervision missions
and the HPCD could derive from the extent and speed of implementation of difficult institutional and policy
reforms such as organizational changes, creation of new highway entities along commercial lines,
increasing road maintenance funding, etc. Another controversial aspect would relate to disagreements
among contractors, supervision engineers and the owners regarding construction quality (or lack thereof) of
expressway civil works. This makes foreign construction supervision personnel in a mediating role
necessary.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of acceptable legal opinions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Agreement Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary (Henan
Province) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the foreign
exchange risk.
2. Agreements Reached with the Beneficiary:
Highway Expenditures
a) Henan Province shall provide basic all-weather accessibility to the 98 villages in 8 counties of
Zhumadian and Xinyang Prefectures which are missing all-weather access, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 2000;
b) A condition of disbursement for LRIPC subprojects shall be the submission, for each LRIPC
package, of technical, economic, social and environmental justifications satisfactory to the
Bank;
- 18 -



c) Henan Province shall undertake, complete and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, an analysis and recommendation for the toll rates on the Zhumadian-Xinyang
expressway (ZXE) by MAarch 31, 2003 taking into consideration the results of the similar
studies on toll rates conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the
experience with toll rates on major roads in China;
d) Henan Province shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2001 and ending in 2005,
furnish an annual highway expenditure report for the Bank's review and comments for the
previous year, which would: (i) show the length of each class of highway by condition
(excellent, good, fair and bad) as of December 31 of the previous year; (ii) show the completed
physical works and actual expenditures of the previous year against the planned physical
targets and budgeted funids of that year, for new construction, upgrading/improvement,
rehabilitation, periodic inainte-nance, and routine maintenance; and (iii) show the targets of the
highway program for the current year, including new construction, upgrading/ improvement,
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and routine maintenance, in terms of planned physical
works and planned expenditures.
Policy and Institutional Reform and Road Traffic Safety Programs, and Training
e) Henan Province shall: (i) by September 1, 2000, complete an institutional development and
reform plan for the next 5 years for its respective highway sector, such plan to cover the areas
of, inter alia, road safety, organizational development and strengthening, pavement design,
training needs, equipment needs, management systems development, and trade facilitation; and
(ii) furnish said plan to the Bank for its review and comments;
f) Henan Province shall: on the basis of the institutional development and reform plan referred to
in sub-paragraph (f) above, (i) by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 2000,
prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comments an annual program of
implementation; and thereafter (ii) take all appropriate actions to implement said annual
program, taking into consideration the Bank's view thereon.;
g) Henan Province shall: (i) carry out the training, in accordance with training programs
acceptable to the Bank; and to that end (ii) by October 1 of each year, commencing in 2000,
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval a rolling two-year training program;
h) Henan Province shall: (i) by December 31, 2000, complete a study on a Provincial Conceptual
Framework for Traffic E,ngineering Systems on Expressways, that would ensure a reasonable
degree of compatibility between the various systems operating in the province, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and
comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations of said study, taking into
consideration the Bank's; view thereon;
i) Henan Province shall: (i) by December 31, 2003, complete a study on long-term performance
of asphalt pavements, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish said study
to the Bank for its reviewv and comments; and thereafter (iii) implement the recommendations
of said study, taking into consideration the Bank's view thereon;
j) Henan Province shall maintain the Leading Group for Traffic Safety and the Traffic Safety
Secretariat.
- 19 -



Environment, LandAcquisition and Resettlement
k) Henan Province shall carry out the EAP and RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and
furnish any proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval;
1) Henan Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the
carrying out of EAP and RAP; and
m) Henan Province shall prepare and furnish the Bank with: (1) by January 31 of each year
starting in 2001, an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction phase and
for each of the first three years following completion of construction; and (2) by November 30,
2000, and thereafter by March 31 and September 30 of each year starting in 2001 and
extending until two years after the resettlement is completed, internal monitoring reports
prepared by Henan agencies; and (3) by June 30 and December 31 of each year, commencing
on December 31, 2000 and for the same time period mentioned above, reports prepared by an
independent agency acceptable to the Bank, about the implementation and impact of the
resettlement activities during the previous six months.
Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing
Henan Province shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and submit to the
Bank:
a) a monthly progress report on the civil works of ZXE;
b) a quarterly progress report on project implementation, covering all components and assessing
the extent to which various implementation and development objectives have been met in the
course of project execution and operation;
c) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an implementation
completion report in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
d) the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
IF 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-20 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jacques M. Tollie                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                 Yukon Huang
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank MIissio n)
Increase economic activity    Gross Output Value of  Province annual economic   Increased economic activity
along the high-priority   Agriculture and Industry  reports/statistics.        and accessibility to all areas in
corridors and in remote areas (GOVAI) in affected counties                     the province enhance
through continuing        and in a few control counties. Country economic reports    opportunities in all sectors,
infrastructure development                                                     and contribute to sustainable
and equitable development.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Provide a more efficient and   1. Balance of provincial  Annual review of sector  Other projects in transport and
effective transport       expenditures programs:     allocations and expenditures. rural development sectors
infrastructure in support of   *  between new                                   contribute successfully to
social and economic        construction,             Review of functional       performance of the economy.
development in Henan          rehabilitation and     classification.
Province.                      maintenance; and
*  between classes of roads.
Annual report on expressway
2. Reduction in transport    operation.
costs.
3. Percentage of road
expenditures put out to
competitive tender.
4. Responsiveness and effec- Project performance
tiveness of maintenance   monitoring reports on
programs.                 outcome indicators.
5. Traffic accident rates on
new and existing highways.
6. Financial performance of
expressway company re. debt
repayment and adequate
O&M.
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. Traffic congestion relieved A. I Average daily traffic on  Project performance  Internalization of improved
and mobility increased in  new expressway and existing  monitoring reports on output  procedures for sector
main corridor Zhengzhou to  road No. 107.            indicators.                organization, management,
Hunan.                    A.2 Average vehicle speed.                            and operation.
-22 -



B. Accessibility to poor areas B. 1 Average daily traffic on                   Continued commitment to
in the province improved.    rural roads in affected areas.                    implement TA's final
B.2 number of days roads are                         recommendations.
closed to traffic.
C. Efficiency and         C. 1 Qualitative evaluation   trainees reports.       Reorganization of HPCD not
effectiveness in public sector  reflecting sharing of new                       disruptive, instead taken as an
management of the road    knowledge and exercising new reports on implementation of opportunity to improve
network enhanced.         skills by staff trained under   studies recommendations.    efficiency.
the project, as well as
improvement of performance
in specific functions and
activities.
C.2 ActuaL operation of RMS. monitoring of the 2 specific PI
for Road Management.
C.3 Quality of construction
and maintenance as measured QCMC annual surveys on IRI,
by selected indices.      deflection, CBR.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Increased capacity in main (in US$ mil]lion):     Progress reports and       Counterpart resources
north-south corridor:                                disbursement reports.      available in timely manner
1.1 expressway                     235.7
1.2 linking roads                   24.4                                   incentives are adequate to
1.3 works supervision               10.1                                    obtain good performance
1.4 equipment for O&M                1.8                                   from the selected
contractors/consultants.
1.5 land acquisition &              24.0
resettlement.
2. Upgrading and                        42.7                                    political pressure do not
improvement of local roads in                                                   interfere with realistic
poor counties.                                                                 implementation plan and
quality requirements.
3. Capacity building:                   3.5
3.1 training                         0.6                                    opportunities are opened
3.2 studies                          1.2                                    to trainees to apply new
3.3 specialized                      1.7                                    skills in workplace.
equipment.
Total project costs                    342.2
- 23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$296.16 million
The first output is Increased Capacity in the Main North-South Corridor. To meet this objective,
five sub-components are designed as follows:
Al.   Construction of Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE): US$ 235.74 million
The proposed expressway is an important part of the National Trunk Highway System as well as
of the main North-South corridor in Henan Province. The project zone of influence covers the two
prefectures of Zhumadian and Xinyang, which are important economic centers in the southern region of
Henan with a total area of 33,998 square km and a total population of 15,49 million. Between the two cities
of Zhumadian and Xinyang, the existing national highway 107 is one of the busiest highways in the
province and the only north-south trunk road through the middle part of Henan, traversing through the
cities of Zhumadian, Queshan, Minggang, Xinyang and Sedian as well as many industrial and mining areas
along the route. The existing road is Class II, with a 9-15 m wide pavement, which does not allow for
separation of the fast and slow-moving traffic along a significant length of the road, with the ensuing safety
hazards. The existing road carries about 7,800-10500 medium truck equivalent (mte) per day (or about
15600-2 1000 passenger car units (pcu) per day). With the rapid economic growth and particularly with the
completion and opening to traffic of the Xuchang-Lehe Expressway and the Lehe-Zhumadian Expressway,
the road can obviously not meet the demand at an acceptable level of service. The widening of the existing
road is not feasible as most of the roadside had been extensively developed with a consequent high number
of people to be resettled and the related high construction costs.
The recommended alignment is located to the east of the Beijing-Guangdong Railway and generally
parallel to the existing national road 107 (see Map I). It is generally about 5-7 km away from the main
cities along the existing road, thus reducing the number of people to be resettled and providing space for
such cities to expand in future, and also reducing the lengths of linking roads (to ZXE) to be constructed or
improved. The proposed expressway would be about 95 km long, consisting of four paved lanes, each 7.5
m wide with a full width of subgrade of 28 m and a 4.5 m wide median, according to the national geometric
standards for highways. In addition to minimizing the use of land and resettlement of people, the alignment
was selected to avoid mining areas and a natural conservancy area. Detailed studies of such areas were
conducted as part of the environmental assessment of the expressway. Six interchanges would be provided
along the proposed expressway. In addition to roadway construction, the ZXE includes: (a) one service
area that provides facilities for parking, rest area, vehicle maintenance, fuel refilling, restaurant and
commercial centers; (b) two facilities for administration and maintenance of the expressway; and (c)
electric, electronic and mechanical supply and installation required for toll collection, telecommunication,
traffic monitoring, road safety and lighting of toll plazas and interchanges.
A2.   Linking roads: US$ 24.43 million
The opening of ZXE will bring a significant increase in traffic to the feeder roads connecting to the
existing network. For a proper interconnection between the interchanges and the cities, five linking roads
with a total length of 50.6 km were identified for new construction or improvement (Map 2). This will
improve the functional performance of the road network system within the project influential area and
facilitate local economic development.
- 24 -



A3.   Equipment for operation and maintenance of ZXE: US$ 1.84 million)
Under previous projects in ifhe province, equipment was provided for the operation and
maintenance of the Zhengzhou-Luo yang, Anyang-Xinxiang, and Luoyang-Sanmenxia expressways. In
view of similar needs for the ZXE, some equipment will be procured for the operation and maintenance of
the expressway. The agreed list is in the Project Files. Equipment procured for environmental monitoring
purposes during construction of previous expressways will continue to be used on the ZXE.
A4.   Construction supervision: US$ 10.13 million
Supervision of the ZXE will be carried out by a Joint Supervision Team (JST) which is an
association between a foreign firm, which will be short-listed and selected according to terms of reference
and procurement schedule agreed with the Bank, and a local firm selected according to MOC regulations.
The JST will act as the Engineer under FIDIC terms. It will be headed by a chief engineer and each of the
nine contract sections will have a resident engineer. The required level of consulting services to be provided
by foreign firms is about 178 person-months. The foreign partner is expected mobilize in August 2000,
provide training to the local partner during August-September, and start actual supervision activities in
October 2000 (see appendix on "Implementation Schedule" in the PIP).
A5.   Land acquisition and resettlement: US$ 24.02 million
Constmction of the ZXE wil.l require permanent use of about 650 hectares of land, and will affect
8586 persons, who need to be relocat:ed. Another 138 hectares of land would be required to be leased
temporarily in the course of construction, generally at sites of big bridges, thus with no affect on the
population. Along the alignment, no enterprise will be affected. Project impacts were identified through a
detailed investigation of affected persons and properties conducted by Henan Communications Planning,
Survey and Design Institute. A baseline social-economic survey of the affected people will be carried out
before the actual implementation of resettlement to determine their existing income levels and standards of
living.
Project Component 2 - US$42.58 million
B.    The second output is Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties. To meet this objective, the project
includes a Local Roads Improvement in Poor Counties (LRIPC) program, which would cover about
400 km of local roads in eight poor counties in the two project prefectures. These local roads would be
rehabilitated or improved without change in alignment. Priority will be given to rural road segments that,
through related road systems, explicitly enable local people to have an easier access to education, health
and other social activities, and facilitate production and operation of business and benefit the improvement
to the living environment of the local people. Such roads would be selected using criteria and procedures
similar to the ones adopted for the selection of the RIPA program under the Second Henan Highway
Project, as follows:
*   First-stage screening of poor counties: the counties selected by HPCD being based upon
overall access improvements and linkages, and considered as complete systems, are deemed
appropriate. It is therefore not necessary to screen further all the 14 poor counties for
priorities.
*   Second-stage screening of road systems: the systems are to be analyzed for cost effectiveness
using the system cost ratio (SCR) or the cost of proposed investments per population served in
the influence area of the system. Given the types of roads envisaged under the LRIPC
program, the SCR should be less than 250. In addition, the selection priority would consider
another index for the number of days the road is closed.
- 25 -



*   Third-stage screening of sub-projects: this consists of an analysis of the economic and social
benefits of each sub-project proposed at the end of the second screening. In view of the
improvements considered under LRIPC, the expected minimum EIRR is 12%.
The above steps have been undertaken and a preliminary LRIPC program has been identified.
Annually, Henan would provide the Bank with a proposed annual implemention plan for its review and
prior approval. As part of this plan, following a detailed survey, Henan would identify the specific roads to
be covered, indicate whether there has been any revision in the results of the economic-social and technical
analyses previously undertaken. In the event Henan proposes for inclusion in the program a road not
previously identified, or the detailed survey results in revisions of the previous data, Henan would update
the economic-social and technical analyses, or canry out new analyses, as the case may be, to ensure that
the criteria for selection of the local roads have been met. In addition, Henan would prepare a
supplemental environmental action plan and, if necessary, a supplemental resettlement action plan, in
accordance with the sectoral environmental action plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework. The
tentatively agreed LRIPC program is shown in the table below.
Local Road Improvement in Poor Counties Program
County       System     _               Road Section                 Influence  System
Prefecture   Name      No Cost RMB No   Length Existing    Proposed    Pavement      area      Cost
million        (km)   Road Class  Road Class  width (m)  population  ratio *
Zhumadian Shangcai     1    45.0    1-1   43        IV          1I         9.0       600,000      75
Pingyu       2    45.0    2-1   31        III        I1         9.0       430.000      54
Xinvang      3    50.4    3-1   34        III         II        12.0      250.000     202
Xixian       4    54.0    4-1   43        III         11        12.0      300,000      180
Luoshan      5 ;  36.1    5-1   11        IV          II        12.0      250,000     145
5-2   49    IV gravel     III        7.0          ,
Xinyang  Guangshan    6     9.6    6-1   32        IV          III       7.0        750 000    12.8
Shangcheng   7     9.0    7-1   45   Unclassified     IV        6.0       670,000    13.5
Xinxian      8    23.0    8-1   48   Unclassified Unclassified    7.0     700,000    32.9
Xinvang      9    28.6    9-1   36   Unclassified Unclassified    7.0     6500         44
_Luoshan     10   35.9   10-1   28                    II
Total           8            336.0    _    400                                      4,600,000
i: Cost per person in the influence area
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.50 million
The third output is Enhanced Sector Management. To meet this objective, the project includes three
sub-components as follows (Annex 2.1 below provides an outline and monitoring plan of the various tasks):
Cl.   Institutional Strengthening/Training: US$ 0.59 million
Several departments of HPCD have been strengthened and extensive training programs have been
undertaken under the provisions of previous projects. In particular, most offices dealing with Bank projects were
strengthened substantially and have benefited from the various training programs. It is now proposed to target (i)
HPCD Head Office (HPCDHQ), (ii) the Henan Provincial Survey, Planning and Design Institute (HPSPDI) and
(iii) the QCMC. In particular, HPSPDI and QCMC are crucial links at both ends of the construction quality
chain, and experience under previous projects has shown that important quality gains can be obtained through the
strengthening of these units.
- 26 -



In addition, comprehensive training (in China and abroad) is also included in the areas of
environmental protection, constructi[on and maintenance technology and management, highway network
planning and operations management, for senior professionals. Comprehensive study tours abroad are
planned for senior management personnel in the areas of highway administration and management,
highway network planning, financing, management and regulatory policy, and post-project evaluation. A
summary of both training programs is provided in Annex 2.2.
C2.   Studies and Technical Assistance: US$ 1.20 million
a) Asphalt Pavement Perfturmance Study. The purpose of the study is the improvement of
performance of asphalt layers in heavily trafficked pavements, in order to increase the cost-effectiveness of
heavy-duty pavement design and performance. The perfornance of asphalt pavements on previous
expressway projects has revealed different types of deterioration including loss of friction, deformation
under heavy loading and reflection cracking, related in part to the different design and materials approach
used. The designs have resulted in a wide range of asphalt thickness from 100 mm to 320 mm and the
associated wide range in cost. The study includes detailed performance analysis of a sample of existing
expressway pavements in China in order to obtain early feedback from the research, and to recommend
improvements to the national design guide. The construction of test sections for long-term pavement
performance (LTPP) monitoring on the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway is also included as a means of
long-term verification. Detailed TOR are available in the Project Files.
b) Road Management Impgrovement The purpose is to provide HPCD with a modem tool for
managing the road assets and making optimal use of funds in the road sector. Specifically the two
objectives are i) to institutionalize computer-based support for network management; and ii) to improve
maintenance strategies and programs to make the most effective use of budget allocations. The task
would: a) Establish a regular survey of the 12,000 km national and provincial network - measuring key
properties at different rates and frequencies according to the class of road, so that the cost is affordable
and can be sustained after completion of the project; b) Upgrade the present database and computer
systems - to produce good executive information, extend and adapt the application of CPMS to all the N/P
network, install a computer network, and train staff in road management and use of the system; and c)
Prepare the 2003 annual program and new 5-year plans using the new system. The tasks would be
implemented by HAB and QCMC. Background and details of the component are given in Annex 14.
c) Continuous Support to Other Critical Sector Issues. Under previous projects, three critical
areas were identified: Road Safety, Traffic Facilitation, and Organization/Management of Toll Highways.
Assistance was provided in the form of studies, which are now all completed. The studies
recommendations were thoroughly discussed, and action plans have been prepared to implement the agreed
recommendations.  The project will now assist in the implementation of these action plans.
* Road Safety. Traffic safety in China is substantially lower than in many of the fully
motorized developed countries. During 1994, there were 24.3 fatalities per 10,000 motor
vehicles, compared to 1.3 in Japan, 1.5 in the UK, 1.9 in Canada, and 2.2 in Germany.
The situation is much worse in Henan than in China as a whole, with 38.2 fatalities per
10,000 vehicles. The proposed traffic safety component will assist to addressing this
challenge, based on the recently completed Study of Factors Contributing to Highway
Traffic Accidents (HTA Study) which showed that the problem is complex, involving the
design and maintenance of highways, driver education and behavior, loading and balancing
of trucks, vehicle condition and maintenance standards, education and enforcement, and
institutional arrangements. This is not a single agency problem, and experience has shown
that tackling it is fraught with difficulties (jurisdictional, cost sharing, non-physical
elements). Hence tie design of the component:
-27 -



i) In view of their importance for effective results in this area, the multi-agency Leading
Group for Traffic Safety (LGTS) as well as the Traffic Safety Secretariat (TSS)
established under Henan II will continue under Henan III.
ii) The TSS has prepared a draft Policy Statement as the basis for action plans for
enhancing traffic safety. Such Policy Statement was formally approved by the LGTS
by February 14, 2000.
iii) Two Traffic Safety Action Plans have been prepared: the first dealing with
infrastructural elements would be under the control of HPCD; the second dealing with
all other elements would be under the purview of the LGTS. Implementation of these
Action Plans will be closely monitored under the project.
*   Commercialization of toll highways. HPCD prepared a report on "Reform Action Plan
for Toll Highway Institution" whose primary purpose is to propose an action plan to
implement the recommendations made in the recently completed Study of Organization,
Management and Maintenance of Toll Highways. The Action Plan includes (i) improving
data collection system, (ii) developing level-of-service standards, (iii) modemizing toll
collection system, (iv) improving policy and regulatory framework for toll highways, and
(v) implementing recommended organizational structure towards corporatization. The
overall implementation would cover the period October 1999-October 2005. It was agreed
that (i) monitoring of the Action Plan will be continued under the Second Henan Highway
Project until the loan closing date of December 2002, and (ii) beyond the latter date,
monitoring of the Action Plan would be pursued under the Third Henan Highway Project.
*   Tradefacilitation. HPCD prepared a report on "Proposed Trade Facilitation Action Plan"
providing the current status of implementation of the recommendations made under the two
completed studies (Trucking Industry Study and Traffic Facilitation Study), along with an
action plan to deal with the remaining issues. The latter include (i) establishment of the
Henan Provincial Highway Transportation Information Center, (ii) completion of and
follow-up on HPCD's Overloading Study, and (iii) Henan/Hubei traffic facilitation.
Following the good experience under the National (Henan/Hebei) Highway Project, a
Memorandum of Understanding for Coordination between Henan and Hubei was prepared
based on the draft proposed in HPCD's report, and signed by the two parties on December
16, 1999. It was agreed that (i) monitoring of the Action Plan will be continued under the
National Highway Project until the loan closing date of June 2000, and (ii) beyond the
latter date, monitoring of the Action Plan would be pursued under the Third Henan
Highway Project.
d) Study on a Provincial Conceptual Frameworkfor Traffic Engineering Systesn on
Expressways.   Various electrical and mechanical systems (EMS) have been -or are being- installed in
the province for each of the expressways. To ensure a reasonable level of compatibility between these
systems, it was agreed that a Provincial Conceptual Framework for EMS supply and installation on
expressways in the province would be prepared under the project, providing a set of parameters and
specifications for the design and implementation of such systems. This Framework would be prepared in
the first year of the project to maximize its benefits to all planned expressways in the province.
- 28 -



C3.   Equipment for Institutional Strengthening: US$ 1.71 million
The project will provide specialized equipment for institutional strengthening of the head office of
HIPCD, the Construction Quality Control Center and the Design Institute, as well as equipment needed for
the study of Asphalt Pavement Performance and the Road Management Improvement component. The
agreed lists of equipment, available in the Project Files, have taken account of the equipment that were
procured under the previous highway projects financed by the Bank as well as the equipment that were
procured by HPCD over the past few years for the strengthening of the capabilities of relevant agencies.
Equipment utilization ratios will be used as performance indicators.
- 29 -



Annex 2.1: Institutional Development and Reform in Henan Highway Sector
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
I. PLAN OUTLINE
A. Institutional Development and Reform Plan
End-results:    - Institutionalization of sector management improvement through continuing
dialogue and development process over five years.
- A successful organizational reform in HPCD.
Outputs:         - A five-year "Institutional Development and Reform Plan" integrating the various
action plans for development of the Henan highway sector.
- Annual core documents to serve as a dash-board for HPCD management.
Indicators:      - Annual update and progress report to be discussed at the joint review mission.
- Reports on process and implementation of organizational reform in HPCD.
Implementation    - Foreign Capital Utilization Office, HPCD
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2005
B. Traffic Safety
End-results:    - Improved road safety and decreased traffic accident rates as a result of
multi-disciplinary efforts.
- Through evaluation of the provincial road safety, the validity of control measures
will be assessed, and lessons will be taken stock of for further improvements.
Outputs:         - Leading Group for Traffic Safety fully operational to implement the Traffic
Safety Action Plans (TSAP) in accordance with the Traffic Safety Policy
Statement.
- Improvement of the 19 black-spots identified already, identification and analysis
of new road black-spots in the province under TSAP I.
- Improvement of traffic safety management and traffic volume counting system,
development and implementation of measures to improve behavior of drivers and
pedestrians, improvement of traffic safety education under TSAP II.
Indicators:      - The annual progress report on the implementation of Henan TSAP I and II.
- Henan Province Yearly Traffic Accidents Evaluation and Economic Losses
Analysis Report.
- Traffic safety evaluation indices: fatalities/10000 vehicles-year, accidents/10000
vehicles-year, injuries/10000 vehicles-year.
Implementation    - HAB/HPCD assisted by Henan Communications Scientific Research Institute
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2005
- 30 -



C. Trade Facilitation
End-results:     - Interprovincial traffic facilitation measures lead to improved utilization rates on
the expres,sways, increased revenues from tolls and enhanced economic exchanges
between Hernan and adjacent provinces.
- The Hernan-Hubei trade facilitation coordination group plays an active role in
accordance with the MOU signed by the two provinces on December 16, 1999.
Outputs:         - Establishment of the Henan-Hubei trade facilitation coordination group.
- Analysis. of the interprovincial highway transportation conditions and
recommendations for improvement.
- Control of the extent of overloading.
- Establishment and effective operation of the Henan Provincial Highway
Transport Information Center.
Indicators:      - The study progress reports and a final study report.
- Progress in implementation of study recommendations in the areas of technology,
regulation and policy.
- Annual implementation report on trade facilitation.
Implementation    - Foreign Capital Utilization Office, HPCD, assisted by Henan Communications
Agency/Period:    Scientific Research Institute.
- 2000/2005
D. Institutional Strengthening and Staff Training
End-results:     - Improved efficiency in HPCD functions through introduction of new
technology and advanced management skills.
Outputs:         - Improvement in staff professional calibers.
- Institutional strengthening;
- Equipment used in support of above objectives.
Indicators:      - Utilization of new knowledge and skills by trained staff in their daily work.
- Utilization ratio of the equipment in institutional strengthening.
- Annual updating of the two-year rolling training program.
Implementation    - Foreign Capital Utilization Office, HPCD
Agency/Period:    - 2000/20D3
- 31 -



E. Commercialization of Toll Highways
End-results:     - Increased efficiency in toll-road organization and management in the province.
- Increased potential for future private sector involvement, through asset
securitization or other means.
Outputs:         - Development of (i) a data collection system and (ii) a Level-of-Service rating
system for toll highways.
- Recommendations for improved design of central median, shoulder width and
guardrail in the province.
- Development and implementation of Maintenance Safety Regulations,
establishment of a Maintenance Service Center; criteria for maintenance quality
inspection and evaluation including improved equipment management.
- Enhancement of toll collection system.
- Formulation of policies and regulations for expressway management.
- Reform of expressway management structures.
Indicators:      - Yearly Traffic Volume Survey Reports.
- Progress in rationalization of maintenance management system.
- Progress in implementation of enhanced toll-collection system.
- Progress of Expressway Management and Organization Reform.
Implementation    - HECAB, assisted by the Henan Communications Scientific Research Institute.
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2005
F. Quality Improvement
End-results:     - Institutionalization of an effective quality supervision and control system.
Outputs:         - Focus on the key factors in quality assurance.
- Strengthened organizational setup at provincial and local levels.
- Systematic assessment of quality in HPCD operations including the performance
evaluation of international consultants.
Indicators:      - Annual report presented by March 31 of each year.
- Number of operations under monitoring and control.
- Utilization rate of specialized resources (personel, equipment, budget).
Implementation    - Quality Control Institute, HPCD
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2005
- 32 -



G. Road Management Improvement Program
End-results:     - Improved efficiency of highway maintenance management in Henan Province.
- Rationalized allocation of maintenance resources
- Province better prepared for the introduction of fuel tax reform so that benefits
are reapecL as soon as reform is enacted.
Outputs:         - Periodic automatic road condition surveys on the trunk highway network.
- Improvement to the current PMS and RDB so that it can meet the actual demand
of road management.
- Maintenance programs based on PMS and RDB.
Indicators:      - Percentage of contracting out of maintenance works.
- Road co ndition survey report every two year.
- Progress report on enhanced maintenance planning and programming.
Implementation    - Highway Administration Bureau (HAB) of HPCD
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2005
H. Asphalt Pavement Performance Study
End-results:     - Improved pavement design for high-grade highways based on optimal thickness
of semi-rigid structures and use of locally produced asphalt suitably modified.
Outputs:         - Guidelines for modification of locally produced asphalt.
- Guidelines for designs of semi-rigid pavement structures and full-depth asphalt
pavement structures.
- Guidance for analyses of pavement life cycle and pavement damages.
- Development of an asphalt and asphalt mixtures evaluation system.
Indicators:      - Presentation of progress reports at all phases.
Implementation    - Quality Control Institute, HPCD
Agency/Period:    - 2000/2003.
- 33 -



I. MONITORING PLAN
COMPONENT               2000                2001               2002                2003                2004               2005
A. Institutional   A 5-year Institutional An integrated progress An integrated progress An integrated progress An integrated progress An integrated
Development         Development and   report to be presented report to be presented report to be presented report to be presented progress report to be
Reform Plan, a report at the joint review    at the joint review    at the joint review    at the joint review  presented at the joint
and Reform Plan  on the process and   mission in October.  mission in October.   mission in October.   mission in October.  review mission in
implementation of                                                                                October.
HPCD reform, and
the first annual reporl
to be presented at the
joint review mission.
B. Traffic Safety Progress reports: on  Progress reports: on   Progress reports: on  Progress reports: on   Progress reports: on   A progress report on
7 black-spots     improvement of 5    improvement of 4    improvement of 3    implementation of   implementation of
improvement, on    black spots, on TSAP black spots, on TSAP black spots, on TSAP TSAP tt, on Henan   TSAP II, a report on
implementation of  11, and on 2000   lI,and on 2001      tI, and on Henan 2002 2003 HAEEL        Henan 2004 HAEEL
the Traffic Safety    HAEEL Analysis;    HAEEL Analysis; and HAEEL Analysis; and Analysis,and on the   Analysis ,and a final
Action Plan It, on the data on trafic  new black spots   a progress report on   new black spots  report of the black
1999 Highway      accidents in 2000 to  improvement plan to  the new black spots  improvement.   spots improvement
Accidents Evaluation be collected and new  be developed.  improvement,                           program.
and Economic      highway black spots
Losses (HAEEL)    study analysis to be
Analysis; and data  undertaken.
collection on 98/99
traffic accidents.
C. Trade            Establishment of the The study's final  Report on         Report on           Report on           Report on
Facilitation.       Henan-Hubei Trade  report to be presented. implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the
Facili-tation Coord-                  studies recommen-   studies recommen-   studies recommen-   studies recommen-
ination Group, start                  dations.           dations.            dations.            dations.
of the study and data
collection, progress
report.
D. Institutional   Domestic: 168, an   Domestic :60,       Domestic: 55;      A final report on   Report on IST       Report on IST
Strengthening       equipment          overseas: 12, study   overseas: 13; study  training programs and outcomes to be  outcomes to be
Strengthen . procurement plan to  tour: 12, equipment  tour: 16; an annual  institutional  integrated in    integrated in
and Training        be prepared, an    procurement         report to be presented; strengthening to be   Component A Report. Component A Report.
annual progress   completed, a progress and a two-year rolling submitted.
report to be      report to be presented, training program to be
presented, and a two- and a two-year rolling updated.
year rolling training  training program to
program to be     updated.
updated.
E. Toll-Highway Traffic Survey         Progress in traffic    Progress in traffic    Progress in traffic    Progress in traffic    Progress in improved
commerciali-        report, progress in  survey, in improved  survey, in improved  survey, in improved  survey, in improved   data collection incl.
maintenance       maintenance         maintenance         maintenance        maintenance         fixed traffic survey
zation              management         management including management includin management including management including stations, improved
including equipment equipment         equipment          equipment           equipment           maintenance incl.
management, and a  management, in     management, in     management, in      management, in      equipment, enhanced
computer controlled enhanced toll-    enhanced toll-      enhanced toll-     enhanced toll-      toll-collection system,
toll-collection system collection system, and collection system, and collection system, and collection system, and and in institu-tional
to be designed.   in institu-tional   in institu-tional   in institu-tional  in institu-tional   reform.
reform.            reform.             reform.             reform.
-34-



COMPONENT                2000                2001                2002                 2003                2004                2005
F: Project                              A progress report on  A progress report on  A progress report on  A progress report on  A final report
Quality                                 quality management  quality management  quality management  quality management  including experiences
to be presented by    to be presented by    to be presented by    to be presented by    lessons,
Improvement                             March 31.            March 31.           March 31.           March 31.            recommendations.
G. Road              A progress report on A progress report on  A progress report on  A progress report on  A progress report on  Final Implementation
Management           PMS Study, and     PMS Study,           PMS Study, overseas PMS Study to be     PMS Study, automatic Report, including
Management    automatic road      comparison analysis  training to be     presented, automatic  road condition     PMS Study Final
Improvement          condition surveys to  of maintenance plan   completed, automatic road condition  surveys, an improved  Report
Program              be carried out.    again:st actual plan,   road condition   surveys, and proposal maintenance plan, and
and a data base to be  surveys, and     for an improved      domestic training to
established.       intemational TA to be maintenance plan.    be completed.
completed
H. Pavement          A report regarding   An exaluation system  A design proposal on  A progress report on  Use of studies results Use of studies results
structural study   data collection from  of asphalt and asphalt optimal thickness of  asphalt modification, to be reported in  to be reported in
trial pavement and   mixtures to be    pavement to be       and study of optimal Component A Report. Component A ReporL
data process.      preliniinarily      established.         pavement thickness,
established.                            to be presented.
- 35 -



Annex 2.2: Summary of Training Program
Paae 1 of 2
No.               Desciption                   Local Trainir              Overseas Trai ing           Overseas Tour     Total Cost Estimate (0000 Y)
No.of   person -   RMBy    No.of  person -  Dollar  Noof  person -  Dollar                      Converted
person    month   (Y    )   person   month  ($'0000) peson month   ($'o000)  RMBY    Dollar   to US
Part I  Trainmg for Institutional Serengthening  53    53      33.02      15       15      13.5                             33.02     13.5       17.48
A. HPCD headoffice                           20        20      12.46      11       11      9.9                              1246      9.9          11.4
1, Computer network technology           10        10       6.23      3        3       2.7                              6.23      2.7         3.45
ighway Prqect Dedson-maldng &
2. Management                                                         4        4       3.6                                        3.6          3.6
3. Prject Monitoring                     10        10      6.23       4        4       3.6                              6.23      3.6         4.35
B. Traininm Needs of Henan Cornunications Design    13  1 3     8.1       4        4       3.6                               8.1      3.6         4.58
1. Road & Bridge Surve, & Engtineering    3        3        1.87                                                        1.87                  0.23
2  Matenal Tesbng & Research              2        2        1.25                                                        1.25                  0.15
3. Project Management                                                 1        1       0.9                                        0.9          0.9
Economic Analysis & Cost-Benefit
4. Esbmation                              5        5        3.11      2        2       1.8                              3.11      1.8         2.17
5. Traffic Forecasting                    3        3        1.87                                                        1.87                  0.23
6. Contract Management & Oualitv Control                        _     1        1       0.9                                        0.9          0.9
C. Quality Control Station                   20        20      1246                                                         12.46                  1.5
1. Equipment Operabon                                                                                                   6.23                  0.75
2  Trouble Shooting of the Ewunment                                         .          _                   _            6.23                  0.75
Note: 1) Local training: unit cost-$750/person-month; overseas training: unit cost-$9000/person-month; overseas study tour unit oast-$1 1000/person month
2) exchanae rate: $1.0=RMBY8.3
- 36 -



Annex 2.2: Summary of Training Program
Page 2 of 2
No.               Description              =     Local Trainini              OV  eas Trainine         _   )versea- 'T our   Total Co! t Estimate ('0000 Y)
No.of   person -   RMBY    No.of  person -  Dollar  No.of  person -  Dollar                         Converted
person_  month   (Y 0000)  person   month  fV000ol person month   (Moo=00   RMBY    Dollar    to US$
Part It Comprehensive Training/Study Tour      230      230      143.18      10       10        9         28      14      15.4  143.18    24.4        41.65
A. Training                                    230      230      143.18      10       10        9                               143.18     9          26.25
1. Environmental Protection                30        30      18.68       4        4       3.6                               18.68     3.6          5.85
2. Construction Technology & Equipment     30        30      18.68       2        2        1.8                              18.68     1.8          4.05
3. Maintenance technology & equipment      60        60      37.35                                                          37.35      0            4.5
4.  Highway safety management              20        20      12.45                                                          12.45      0            1.5
5. Construction & Operation/Maintenance    30        30      18.68       4        4       3.6                               18.68     3.6          5.85
Management Information System
6. Highway Network Planning               20        20       12.45                                                          12.45      0            1.5
7. Operation Manazement                   40        40       24.9                         _                                 24.9       0              3
B. Study Tour                                                                                            28       14      15.4            15.4          15.4
1. Highway Administration                                                                             4        2       2.2            2.2           2.2
2. Road/Highway network planning                                                                      6        3       3.3            3.3           3.3
3. Financing Management                                                                               6        3       3.3             3.3          3.3
4. Management System & Regulation                                                                     6        3       3.3             3.3          3.3
5. Project Post-Appraisal                                                                             6        3       3.3             3.3          3.3
Total                  283       283      176.2      25       25       22.5       28       14     15.4  176.2    37.9          59.13
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Two tables provide project costs by component (Table A) and by category (Table B):
A. Project Costs by Component <1              Total         Local        Foreign         Total
RMB million   US$ million   US$ million    US$ million
Increased Capacity in Main Corridor:
Zhumadian-Xinxiang Expressway<a                  1647.70        103.23        95.29         198.52
Electr. & Mechan. works<b                        131.10         2.84          12.95         15.80
Linking roads<c                                  193.12         13.96         9.31          23.27
Eciuioment for O&M of extresswav<d                14.55         0.29          1.46           1.75
Construction supervision                         76.45          6.88          2.33           9.21
Land Acquisition & Resettlement                  199.33         24.02         0.00          24.02
Sub-total Increased Capacity:   2262.25       151.22        121.34        272.56
Improved Accessibility in Poor Counties:
Rural roads Program                              336.60         27.58         12.98         40.55
Enhanced Sector Management:
Training                                          4.92          0.21          0.38           0.59
Asphalt Pavement Performance Study                3.40          0.00          0.40           0.40
Road Mana2ement Improvement                       5.81          0.40          0.30           0.70
Action Plans for Road Safety, Trade Facilitation &
Toll Hwv Management                                  0.80          0.10          0.00          0.10
Eauinment for IST<d                               13.47         0.33          1.29           1.62
Sub-total Caoacitv Building:    28.40         1.04          2.37          3.41
Total baseline cos    2627.25      179.84        136,69         316.53
Physical contingency <2                          119.25         7.65          6.71           14.37
Price contingencv                                94.16          6.04          5.30          11.35
Total Project Costs   2840.66       193.54        148.70        3142.24
Interest during construction                     131.10         15.80         0.00          15.80
Front-end fee                                     12.45         0.00          1.50
Total Financine Reouiredi   2984.21       209.33        150.20         358.03
Note 1: The figures include tax and duties amounting to RMBY131. 1 million for <a; to RMBY21.9 m for <b; to RMBYI 1.64 m
for <c; and to about RMBY3. 0 m for <d .
Note 2: Physical contingency was calculated at 5% of civil works and construction supervision costs; and price contingency was
calculated on civil works, supervision and equipment, using (i) the most recent MUV projections for international inflation rates of
1.6% for 2000 and 2.5% beyond, and (ii) lowered domestic inflation rates of 1% for 2000 and 2% beyond (as experienced in the
sector in the Past several vears).
- 38 -



B. Project Costs by Category <3            Total     ___LoalU  _    Foreign        Total
RMB million   US$ million   US$ million   US$ million
Civil Works
Zhumadian-Xinxiang Expressway<a                1812.47       113.55       104.82        218.37
Electr. & Mechan. works<b                      144.21        3.13         14.25         17.37
Linking roadcc                                 202.78        14.66         9.77         24.43
Rural roads Program                            353.43        28.96        13.63         42.58
Sub-total Works:   2512.89       160.29       142.46        302.76
Goods
Equipment for O&M and IST<d                       29.42         0.71         2.83          3.54
Services
Construction supervision                       84.10         7.80          2.33         10.13
Training and studies                           14.93         0.71          1.08          1.79
Sub-total Services:    99.03       8.51         3.41          11.92
Land Acauisition & Resettlement                  199.33        24.02         0.00          24.02
Total I rojget Costs   2840.66     193.54       148.70        342.24
Interest durine construction                   131.10        15.80         0.00         15.80
Front-end fee                                  12.45         0.00          1.50          1.50
Total FinancinReauired    2984.21       209.33        150.20       359.53
Note 3: Costs include contingencies.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Preface
I.     The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two project components:
a) new construction of a 95.2 km Zhumadian- Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) including the
construction and/or upgrading of five linking roads (total 50.6 km), and
b) upgrading of ten local roads (total 400 km) in the poorest areas under Local Roads
Improvement in the Poor Counties (LRIPC).
2.     The analysis is based on the actual and forecast operating data on traffic, vehicle operating cost
(VOC), economic project cost and transport user benefits. The main inputs to and assumptions for the
evaluation are:
a) capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect January 2000 prices;
b) the benefit stream, also reflecting January 2000 prices, comprising of savings in VOC, travel
time savings through reduced congestion on the existing route, and reduction accident costs;
c) an assumed project life of 20 years, the capital investment period during 2000-2007, depending
on the road; being evaluated and
d) full benefits starting to accrue on ZXE in 2003, for the ten local roads from 2002 to 2003
(depend on the roads being considered).
3.     This Annex is comprised of three parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of ZXE (includes five
linking roads). Part II is the economic evaluation of the ten local roads under LRIPC; and Part m is the
overall economic evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis.
PART I: ZHUMADIAN - XINYANG EXPRESSWAY
4.     For purpose of evaluation, the ZXE been further divided into three sections:
Length of the          Length of the main
Existing road (km)       Expressway (km)
Zhumadian - Queshan                 20.0                     19.0
Queshan - Minggang                  41.0                     32.4
Minggang - Xinyang                  43.0                     42.0
Total                    104.0                     95.2
Highway Expansion Plan -Justification for Investment
5.     Overview. The province is a land transport hub located in the center part of China serving (a)
east - west bound transport for linking the landlocked provinces to the coastal provinces, and (b) north -
south bound transport for connecting the northem (Yellow River basin) and the southern (Yangtze River
basin) in China. The terrain in the west region of the province is mountainous. The central and east
regions are the plain. The Yellow River crosses from west to east covering the north part of the province.
Basically, Henan is an agricultural province with over 90 million residents, with many rural areas still
being classified as an poor counties.
- 40 -



6.      Currently, GOA is planning to build two vertical highway routes, two horizontal highway routes
and three main highway corridors beiore 2010. One of the vertical highway routes passes through the
province from north to south - Beijing / Zhuhai Expressway (BZE). The total length of BZE is about
2,600 km. The length of BZE in Henan province is about 525 km. Except for the project section, all other
parts of BZE in Henan are either corrmpleted or under construction. Given its import role of the highway
corridor to the provincial economy and in the near completion of other sections, the proposed project has
the highest priority in the provincial highway development plan.
Level and Timing of Investment
7.     For this highway corridor, motorized traffic on the road has been increasing about 28.0 percent
per year between 1990-1998, and by 1998 had reached 10,600-14,000 motorized vehicles per days
throughout its length. Non motorized and other traffic (bicycles, animal carts, small farm tractors,
motorcycle etc) adds an equivalent of about another 600-1,000 motorized vehicles per day. Even with a
modest projected 8.1 percent annual growth, motorized traffic alone in this highway corridor would reach
between 15,800- 20,800 vehicles per day by 2003, the proposed full opening year. This, depending on the
section, would reach or exceed the capacity of the existing road. An economic assessment of the optimum
opening year of the highway shows that part section of the road has almost reached to its capacity, so the
optimum timing is now to construct the road as quickly as possible.
Section I           Section 2           Section3
Zhumadian - Queshan    Queshan -           Minggang -
Minggang            Xinyang
Road Class (old road / new road)   Super 11 / Expressway   Super II / Expressway  Super II/
Expressway
Road Condition (old road / new road)   Fair / Good         Fair/ Good          Fair/ Good
Terrain                                   Flat                Flat               Hilly
Capacity (AADT/day) (old road / new   15,000/ 55,000      15,000! 55,000      15,000! 55,000
road)
Motorized Traffic - 1998 (AADT/day)      12,900              10,600              14,000
Year for Capacity                        2000                 2003                1999
Optimum Opening Year                     1999                 2002                1998
Proposed Opening Year                    2003                2003                2003
Highway Corridor Traffic
8.     Estimates of base year traffic were made on the basis of routine traffic counts and a
comprehensive origin and destination (O/D) survey that took place in September 3, 1998. Projection of
base, generated and diverted traffic were made for 19 zones on the basis of a conventional growth model.
A regression analysis was used to derive a relationship between economic growth and road transport
demand. Based on the expected continued but declining local economic growth, it is estimated that traffic
growth in the project corridor will be overall 8.1 percent per year between 1998-2003, 6.7 percent between
2003- 2013, and 5.2 percent between 2013- 2023. The overall traffic growth rates are summarized as
follows:
-41 -



Annual Traffic Growth Rate
Car         Bus & Truck           Average
Actual:    1990-1998                27.4%            28.1%               28.0%
Projection:  1998-2003               8.0%             8.2%                8.1%
2003-2013                 6.5%            6.8%                6.7%
2013-2023                 5.0%            5.3%                5.2%
9.      Alternatives. In the feasibility study, three alternative route alignments were considered, i.e. the west
alignment, central alignment and east alignment. Each alternative was compared on the basis of costs, benefits,
service to local cities and relationship to future economic development. The east alignment was selected on the
basis of least overall cost and without having any additional environmental or resettlement consequences compared
with the other two alternatives (details are available in the feasibility study reports).
Traffic on the Highway
10.     The new expressway is planned to become operational in the beginning of 2003. Based on the
information provided by the O/D survey and the feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by using
fnancial VOC for the road users as an independent variable, with the impacts of the level of proposed tolls on the
new highway, the tolls on the existing road, travel distance, and experience from other recently Bank financed
highways in China. The results of the potential division of traffic to the new road show that between 58-63 percent
of motorized corridor traffic may be diverted to the new highway, depending on the road section and for the
opening year of ZXE. Sensitivity tests with lower diversion rates show that the ZXE would still be justified with
an average division rate of about 50%, a rate exceeded on most of the toll highways so far financed by the Bank in
China.
11.    Traffic generated is assumed to be 10 percent of the basic traffic. Although there is an existing railway
line between Zhumadian and Xinyang (96 km), no diversion of traffic from the railway to the new highway has
been taken into account. The railway undertakes mainly on long distance bulk cargo transport with different O/D
and average transport distance for railway in 1998 is 1,277 km. Most bulk cargo presently carried by the railway
would not be attracted by its faster times because of much higher tariffs of the expressway (rail tariffs are about 6.2
Fen per ton-km compared with about 40 Fen per ton-km for road transport). The highway corridor traffic forecast,
by sections, is summarized as follows:
Nonrmal Traffic, bv Sect ions (AADT)
Section 1            Section 2            Section 3
Zhumadian - Oueshan   Oueshan - Minegang   Minggang - Xinvang
The existinsz road:
1990                  1,899                1,546                1,767
1995                  8,571                7,164                7,909
1996                 10,682                7,801                9,489
1997                  8,901                1,637               10,851
1998                 12,902               10,654               14,002
2003                  7,812                6,050                9,026
2013                 13,964                10,870               16,357
2023                 21,597                16,903              25,682
ZXE:
2003                 11,266                9,775                11,776
2013                 22,345               19,534               23,620
2023                 38,443               33,888               41.121
-42 -



Economic Costs
12.    Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by the elimination of price contingency,
interest and fee payments during the construction, taxes and custom duty on imported materials by the
application of shadow prices to each section of the new highway. The overall average shadow price is
1.025 and the resulting overall econornic cost is 88.2% of the financial cost.
Economic Benefits
13.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC ( summarized as below)
savings on the new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) time savings through relieved congestion
on the existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion
were quantified. The value of passenger time savings was estimated at Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, based on
updated values from a report on feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia
Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The same source was also used for vehicle accident
rates on different class of road. The benefits of generated traffic were calculated using the standard
demand curve analysis and an assumed linear relationship between demand and travel cost over the relevant
cost range.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per 1000 vehicle-km)
Section 1 and II                     Section III
The expressway     The old road    The expressway     The old road
Car                       581               659               607              685
Medium bus               1,076             1,299            1,250             1,488
Large bus                2,3115            2,794            2,823             3,365
Small truck              1,069             1,261            1,336             1,541
Medium truck             1,355             1,543            1,670             1,897
Large truck              1,950             2,206            2,389             2,681
Tractor/trailer          2,941             3,334            3,879             4,339
-43 -



Sample of Economic VOC Calculation for Section I and II (Expressway)
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km)
Medium    Large    Smal    Medium    Large         Trailer/
Car       Bus       Bus    Truck    Truck       Truck    Container
Fuel                       253       338       672      460        563        609        672
Tires                       21        35        130      50        130        480       1,073
Maintenance                223       311       638      466        529        526        646
Crew                        10        22        25       22         22         22          25
Depreciation                41        120      279       71        111        277        525
Subtotal           548        826      1 744    1 069     1 355      1.950      2,941
Time value of passengers    33        250       571
Total             581      1076      2.315    1.069      1,355     1,950       2,941
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
14.     Total costs and benefits streams, Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net Present Value
(NPV), for each section of the expressway were calculated. The overall EIRR for ZXE is estimated to be
21.5 percent with the following results for each road section and summarized as follows:
Economic Evaluation of ZXE
NPV (12%,    Extra children     Extra people attending
EIRR (%)    million        attending school   health services ('000)
Yuan)             ('000)"
Zhumadian-Queshan           16.0          134.6            3.0                  1.6
Queshan - Minggang         25.0           787.0            5.5                  3.0
Minggang-Xinyang            15.9          324.9            6.8                  3.6
Whole Route                 19.0        1,246.5           15.3                  8.2
1/ The quantified benefits of the ZXE represent only proportion of the total, the benefits coming from improved access to
education and health, which can be quantified but not valued.
15.     The basic evaluation of the project, by section and on the whole, indicates that the selected
alignment is economically viable, and the sensitivity tests with respect to higher cost, lower transport
demand, zero value of time and zero generated traffic benefit to the new highway maintain this position.
The analysis of the optimum year for opening of the road showed that delaying the completion by two years
would reduce the EIRR by about 4.0 percent.
-44 -



Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of ZXE (Yuan million)
EIRR(%)          NPV (12%)
Delay the completion by one year (to 2004)            16.9              874.3
Zero value of time                                    17.9              999.3
Zero generated traffic                               18.6             1,163.2
Lower traffic projection                              15.1              458.5
Switching values                  %  increase
Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                  195 %
Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%               52 %
16.     In addition, the sensitivity of the evaluation resulting to variations in the costs and benefits of the
project indicate that the conditions for the project's viability to fall below the minimum acceptable, that is,
a NPV of less than zero by using 12 percent discount rate or an EIRR of less than 12 percent, are unlikely
to occur. The benefits would have to fall to less than 52 percent of those in base case with no change in
costs, the costs would have to increase to more than 1.95 times those of the base costs, or the costs would
have to increase by 130 percent and the benefits fall to 67 percent at the same time.
PART II: LOCAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT IN THE POOR COUNTIES (LRIPC)
Selection of Highways and their Traffic
17.     The LRIPC consists of ten local roads, classified by HPCD as among the worst roads in
Zhumadian and Xinyang areas. The main objective of rehabilitation program is to upgrade existing local
roads to Class II or Class III roads and improvement of two existing unclassified roads. The total length is
400 km as listed below:
Length (km)
1.       Shangcai - Zhoukou road                      43
2.        Runan - Pingyu road                          31
3.        Shilihe - Zhengjiatuchen road                34
4.        Guanjin - Huabu Bridge road                  43
5.       Jiangwan Bridge- Gongjiapeng road             60
6.        Guangshan - Mafan road                       32
7.        Shengcheng - Changzhuyuan road               45
8.       Xinxian - Hepu road                           48
9.        Dongjianhe - Tangjianhe road                 36
10.       Zhengyang - Jiangwan road                     28
Total                       400
-45 -



18.     Since all the ten local roads are located in the same area, the local economic development and
traffic pattern are quite similar. Based on the actual traffic levels and local economic growth rates, traffic
growth rates have been estimated 4 percent from 1998-2005, 3 percent from 2005-2010, 2 percent from
2010-2015 and 1 percent thereafter.
Economic Costs and Benefits
19.     Financial costs have been converted to economic costs using the same method and factors as for
the ZXE, with the following results:
Financial and Economic Cost for LRIPC (Yuan million)
Financial        Economic
1.      Shangcai - Zhoukou road                       45.0              39.8
2.      Runan - Pingyu road                           45.0              39.8
3.      Shilihe - Zhengjiatuchen road                 50.4              44.4
4.      Guanjin - Huabu Bridge road                    54.0             47.7
5.      Jiangwan Bridge- Gongjiapeng road             36.1              31.8
6.      Guangshan - Mafan road                          9.6              8.4
7.      Shengcheng - Changzhuyuan road                  9.0              7.9
8.      Xinxian - Hepu road                           23.0              20.2
9.      Dongjianhe - Tangjianhe road                  28.6              25.2
10.      Zhengyang - Jiangwan road                     35.9              31.7
Total                        336.6             296.9
20.     The principal evaluated benefits of the local roads would be reduced VOCs through providing a
better road surface, and the associated upgrading of road Class which would also result in higher traffic
speeds. Together these effects would result in some generated traffic, assumed to be 5 percent of the normal
traffic.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
21.     The best estimates of EIRRs for the ten local roads range from 16.2 percent to 46.2 percent. The
overall EIRR and NPV for the entire Local road is 30.9 percent and 415.0 million Yuan, respectively.
-46 -



EIRR and NPV Summary for LRIPC
NPV      Extra children      Extra people
EIRR     (12%,   attending school    attending health
(in %)   mil. Y)       ('000)"        services ('000)"
1.   Shangcai - Zhoukou road           41.0      76.01          9.0               45.0
2.    Runan-Pingyu road                46.2      91.06          8.1                30.0
3.    Shilihe-Zhengjiatuchen road      35.3      86.68          9.0                57.0
4.   Guanjin - Huabu Bridge road       27.3      56.22         13.5                63.0
5.   Jiangwan Bridge- Gongiiapeng; road    40.1  77.69         12.9                42.0
6.   Guangshan - Mafan road            35.6      18.17          7.5                42.0
7.   Shengcheng - Changzhuyuan road    32.5      14.35          9.3                48.0
8.   Xinxian - Hepu road                16.2      5.35          5.3                33.0
9.   Dongiianhe - Tangiianhe road       16.4      7.11          3.4                24.0
10.   Zhengyang-Jiangwan road           35.8      40.96          8.0               30.0
Total                30.9    414.98          86.0              414.0
1/  The quantified benefits of the LRIPC represent only proportion of the total, the benefits coming from improved access to
education and health, which can be quantified but not valued.
22.     The risk associated with evaluation of the local roads are that traffic will grow more slowly than
projected, and that the civil works wi[ll be more expensive than projected and that the savings in VOC will
be less than expected. All these risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests and the evaluation results
found to be robust to all of them. For the project component to be non-acceptable (i.e. EIRR of less than
12% or NPV of zero), traffic growth would have to be negative, or civil works cost would have to increase
by more than 283 percent or the VOC would have to reduce to about 35.3 percent of their expected value.
PART m: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate or Return (EIRR)
23.     The overall EIRR of the project (including ZXE and the ten local roads ) is 20.5 percent and the
NPV (12%) is about 1.66 billion Yuan.
Project Risks
24.     In all sections of the ZXE and LRIPC show acceptable and robust economic returns. The
province has rich experience in the construction and operation of expressway and local road projects so the
technical risks of implementing the project are minimal. Physically, the only remaining tangible risks are
that prolonged delays may occur in dhe course of implementation due to very tight construction schedule.
This will be addressed through training and technical assistance for the staffs in the early stage of the
project.
-47 -



Probabilistic Risk Analysis for Economic Evaluation of ZXE
25.    The sensitivity test has a number of limitations. The test, for example, can not determine the
degree of uncertainty. Thus, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. In
a Monte Carlo analysis, each factor is followed to vary at random between set limits and all factors are
allowed to change simultaneously. Monte Carlo simulation provides probability distributions of the
potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these distributions, we can assess the risk associated with
making various decisions. The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision
variable, and on the likelihood of each value within this range.
26.    For the ten local roads, the sum of capital investment constitutes only 11.3 percent of total capital
investment. In view of their higher EIRR and lower capital investment, the probabilistic risk analysis for
the project is focused instead on the construction of ZXE. The factor with the most uncertainty associated
with the economic evaluation of ZXE have been identified in the following: (a) traffic growth rate, (b)
traffic diversion ratio to the new highway, (c) the value of vehicle operating costs, and (d) delay the new
expressway opening year to 2004. The results of probabilistic risk analysis shows that the EIRR for the
mostly likely scenario is 21.2%. The low scenario is 14.4% and the high scenario is 30.6%. The standard
error of the mean is 0.7%. The detailed results of Monte Carlo test and probabilistic risk analyses are
shown in Appendix A and summarized as follows:
Summary of ZXE Risk Analysis
Range of EIRR       Most likely EIRR      Standard Error of the Mean
Section 1         12.6% - 28.2%           19.2%                      0.6%
Section 2         17.0% - 34.3%           24.3%                      0.7%
Section 3         13.0% - 29.6%           20.2%                      0.7%
Total         14.4%-30.6%             21.2%                      0.7%
-48 -



APPENDIX A
HENAN: ZHUMADIAN- XINYANG EXPRESSWAY (2004)
EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS
Summary:
Display Range is from 0.0% to 8C.0% EIRR (in%)
Entire Range is from 0.4% to 135.3% EIRR (in%)
After 825 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.7%
Statistics:                             Value       Percentiles:
Trials                              825                              Percentile   EIRR (int)
Mean                              25.2%                                    0%           0.4%
Median                            21.2%                                   10%           5.3%
Mode                                 ---       Low Scenario               20%          10.3%
Standard Deviation                18.6%                                   30%          14.4%
Variance                           3.5%        MostLikely                 40%          17.6%
Skewness                            1.57                                  50%          21.2%
Kurtosis                            7.15       HighScenario               60%          25.1%
Coeff. of Variability               0.74                                  70%          30.6%
Range Minimum                      0.4%                                   80%          38.0%
Range Maximum                    135.3%                                   90%          48.9%
Range Width                      135.0%                                  100%         135.3%
Mean Std. Error                   0.65%
Forecast: Zhumadian- Xinyang Expressway (2004)
825 Trials                            Frequency Chart                             12 Outiebrs
.030                                                                       25
.023                                                                       18.75
C- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1
=    .015                                                                      12.5    e
=8~~~~~~~~~~~
0.0%          20 0%           40.0%           60 0%          80.0%
EBRR (tn%)
Assumntions
Traffic Growth Rate                                 Traffic Diversion Ratio
Normal distribution with parameters:                 Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                             100.0%        Mean                                   100.0%
Standard Dev.                     10.0%        Standard Dev.                           10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Inf,nity        Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%                  Mean value in simulation was 99.8%
Voc
Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                           90.0%
Likeliest                         95.0%
Maximum                          100.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 100.0%
Mean value in simulation was 95. 1%
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Preface
1.     The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of two parts. Part I is for revenue earning
entity; and Part II is for non-revenue earning entity. Since ZXE is designed as a toll road and is the only
road in the project which generates the revenue (the total cost of ZXE constitute about 88 percent of total
project cost) and there is no revenue for the ten local roads under LRIPC, Part I will focus on ZXE and
Part II will focus on LRIPC. For financial cost of capital, considering that around 40.0 percent of the
investment will be financed by the World Bank with at 7 percent interest rate and the opportunity cost of
capital is 5 percent for local financing, the weighted average cost of capital is 6 percent.
PART I: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF ZXE
2.     ZXE is planned to be put into operation in 2003. HIPCD is expected to form an expressway
company before 2003 in charge ZXE. The company will responsible for day to day management,
operation, maintenance, and development of the expressway. The company will also bear the financial
obligations and its own development including the repayment of the loans. The main financial revenue of
the company would be the toll income from the road users and the toll charge is strictly controlled by the
government.
The Financial Objective
3.     HPCD has clearly indicated that the purpose of toll collection on ZXE is to repay the Bank's loan,
to cover operating and non-operating expenses and routine medium and major maintenance, instead of to
maximize the financial rate of return on the investment. The toll charges are therefore on the low side
(about average 0.55 Fen per vehicle-km) with a low annual growth assumption. The toll charges forecast
has been assumed to be increasing once in every four years (15 percent or average 3.6 percent p.a.) which
is lower than the current estimation of 5 percent domestic general price escalation.
Financial Forecast
4.     The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (small passenger cars, large buses, small trucks,
medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled. Some toll exempted vehicles (police,
ambulance and military) are expected to be 1 percent of total traffic. Based on the current toll rate, a toll
charge table for ZXE is established as follows:
Toll Charges (Yuan/ vehicle-km)
Small   Medium      Large    Small   Medium    Large    Tractor
car       bus       bus      truck     truck     truck    - trailer
0.25      0.25      0.50      0.25      0.50      0.75       1.00
5.     Based on the actual operating practice of the existing three provincial toll expressways, the
operating costs of ZXE can be categorized as follows: working cost (a. wage and benefits, b. maintenance,
c. operating materials and supplies, d. administration, e. others), and operating cost (working cost +
- 50 -



depreciation). All other expenses e.g. taxes, interest payments of the loan and others, are also included in
the calculation of the profitability of ZX5E. The results show, except for 2012 when the major maintenance
would take place, that ZXE would be able to pay all expenditures, including operating, non-operating
expenses and routine, medium and major maintenance, for operation of the expressway (Income statement,
Appendix A).
6.      The low toll charges policy on vehicles may not affect the daily operation of the expressway
company. The capital requirements for the project investment, however, would generate cash pressure on
the company, particularly during the first year of operations (2003). It is expected that the cash pressure of
the company would be fully relieved after 2004 (Sources and applications of funds, Appendix A).
7.      The shortage of cash in 2003 would affect current ratio (the liquidity of the company) in that year
which estimated to be -0.2 ( to avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio should be more than
1.0). Also, debt! equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the financial leverage of the company) would not be
sound until 2009 due to the debt, which would erode the equity of the company (Balance sheet, Appendix
A). To guarantee financial viability of the ZXE operation, HPCD has released an official document to the
Bank for full financial support to the company. The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown
in Appendix B.
8.     The result of the financial evaluation shows that the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) on
equity would be 12.6 percent. The FIRR for the total investment cost is expected to be 9.2 percent. If the
delay of ZXE opening to 2004, the FIRR would be 12.0 percent and 8.9 percent for equity and entire
project, respectively. For the financial probabilistic risk analysis, the four most uncertain factors which
may affect the financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth, (b) toll charges, (c) total
working costs, and (d) delay in opening the highway to 2004. The result reveals that the most likely FIRR
would be 8.8 percent, while the worst and the best FIRR would be 8.4 percent and 9.3 percent,
respectively. The detailed is in Appen dix C and summarized as follows.
Summary of Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Financial Sensitivity Test       Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
FIRR (2003)         FIRR (2004)       Range of  Most Likely  Std. Error of
To the project On equity To the project On equity  FIRR / NPV  FIRR / NPV    The Mean
FIRR                  9.2 %     12.6%      8.9 %     12.0 %   8.4 % - 9.3 %    8.8 %   0.0 %
NPV (6%, million Yuan)   923.9    1,341.9  849.2     1,267.1  699.3 - 975.7   839.5      7.8
Impact on Level of the Toll Charge
9.      The level of tolls need to satisfy 2 objectives to: (a) generate enough revenue to obtain the higher
financial rate of return on investrnent, but (b) not deterring potential users and compromise economic
objectives. These objectives can be contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll while the latter a
lower one. The analysis shows that the overall toll for 2003 would be about 0.55 Yuan/veh-km, which
should generate the minimum sufficient funds to serve the repayment of the loan. Sensitivity tests to the
level of tolls (see the table below) showed that even at a toll of 2.0 Yuan/veh-km, both EIRR and FIRR are
still justified. Beyond this rate, the EIRR falls rapidly while the FIRR almost reaches its maximum.
Further, if all construction costs were privately financed instead of being covered by a 60% government
grant, average tolls would need to be over 2.0 Yuan/veh-km to generate optimal FIRR to providers of both
debt and equity, and this toll level would substantially reduce the project's economic benefits.
- 51 -



Sensitivity of Evaluation Results to Variations in Toll Charges
Average Toll charges (Yuan/veh-km)   EIRR (%)      FIRR (%)
0.25                      23.6           --
0.55                      19.0           9.2
1.00                      16.7          23.0
2.00                      14.6          32.9
3.00                       6.2          29.1
PART II: THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF LRIPC
10.    The ten local roads under LRIPC are toll free roads. The financial evaluation of these non-revenue
earning roads should ensure that HPCD should maintain a sound financial practice to minimize the
financial risks, i.e. the lack of counterpart funds for the construction including the future operating
expenses to the project roads.
11.    HPCD has provided the financing plan for total revenue and expenditure of HPCD for the Ninth
Five Year Plan (9th FYP, 1996 - 2000) and the 10th FYP (2001 - 2005). Based on the provincial highway
development plan, HPCD has acquired sufficient funds to cover the funds demand on new roads
construction and the existing road network maintenance. In addition, a sound self-financing ratio of HPCD
would ensure the implementation of the development plan. In 1998, the latest actual data, revealed about
two third of HPCD total revenue are generated from the internal cash flow. The detailed source and
expenditure for 1996 - 2005 is shown in Appendix D of this Annex.
12.    Following the increases in length of the provincial road network every year, HPCD also provides
additional resources for maintenance of the existing road networks. During the 8th FYP and the 9th FYP,
the increases in rate of an average unit road maintenance expenditure is much faster then the increases rate
of road network. It is estimated that increases of road network and average unit maintenance expenditure
for the 8th FYP and the 9th FYP are 3.3 percent vs. 11.1 percent and 1.3 percent vs. 3.4 percent,
respectively. The soundness of these allocation in terms of (i) level of retums and (ii) distribution across
types of works will be reviewed as part of the Road Maintenance Improvement Program. Suffice it to say
here that the expenditures on road construction and maintenance for the "toll-free" roads included in the
project constitute only a small fraction of HPCD fund flow. Therefore the fiscal impact would be minimal.
Based on HPCD plan, the capital investment for the LRIPC program is less than 1.5 percent of annual total
HPCD revenue. In addition, the required maintenance expenditure for LRIPC is less than 0.6 percent of
total maintenance expenditure of BPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest
financial risk regarding availability of counterpart fund for construction and maintenance of the project
roads. The details are shown in Appendix D of this Annex and summarized as follows:
- 52 -



IHPCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
Roadl Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
9th FYP        10th FYP
Average annual increase in the road network                   3.3            1.3
Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures          11.1            3.4
BIPCD: Investments, Revenue and Maintenance Expenditures (million Yuan)
2000        2001        2002       Total
Investments and Revenue:
LRIPC Investments (a)                      66.10      166.40      110.10      336.60
Total HPCD Revenue (b)                 10,958.05    11,282.93    11,000.12    22,283.05
Ratios (a)/(b)                             0.5%        1.5%        1.0%        1.0%
Maintenance Expenditures:                    2002        2003        2004        2005
LRIPC (c)                                  4.98        12.78       13.59       14.28
Total HPCD Maintenance Expenditure (d)  1,933.22    2,028.83    2,184.46    2,321.23
Ratios (c)/(d)                             0.3%        0.6%        0.6%        0.6%
- 53 -



APPENDIX A
Page I of 3
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
ZXE Income Statement
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2003   2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011   2012   2013   2014  2015
Traffic (million veh-km)    418.75 446.89 476.96 511.69 548.93 588.88 631.74 677.78 727.16  780.17 837.04 884.33 934.38
Revenue
Tolls                       228.58 244.10 292.58 322.87 346.64 372.17 447.44 493.36 529.72  568.77 684.33 743.05 785.72
Operating Taxes
Business tax                  11.43  12.21  14.63  16.14  17.33  18.61  22.37  24.67  26.49   28.44  34.22  37.15  39.29
City tax                      0.80   0.85   1.02   1.13   1.21   1.30   1.57   1.73   1.85    1.99   2.40   2.60   2.75
Education levy                0.34   0.37   0.44   0.48   0.52   0.56   0.67   0.74   0.79    0.85   1.03   1.11   1.18
Total                       12.57  13.43  16.09  17.75  19.06  20.47  24.61  27.14  29.13   31.28  37.65  40.86  43.22
Net Revenue                 216.01 230.67 276.49 305.12 327.58 351.70 422.83 466.22 500.59  537.49 646.68 702.19 742.50
Operating Costs
Wages and benefits            13.00  13.65  14.33  15.05  15.80  16.59  17.42  18.29  19.20   20.16  21.17  22.23  23.34
Maintenance                   12.38  12.99  13.64  14.33 109.34  15.79  16.59  17.42  18.29  465.21  20.15  21.16  22.23
Operating materials and supplies  27.23  28.59  30.02  31.52  33.09  34.75  36.49  38.31  40.23   42.24  44.35  46.57   48.9
Administration& management    7.80   8.19   8.60   9.03   9.48   9.95  10.45  10.97  11.52   12.10  12.70  13.34  14.00
Others /_1                    4.57   4.80   5.04   5.29   5.55   5.83   6.12   6.43   6.75    7.09   7.44   7.82   8.21
Totalworkingcosts            64.98  68.22  71.63  75.22 173.26  82.91  87.07  91.42  95.99  546.80 105.81 111.12 116.68
Depreciation           35.52  46.01  53.49  60.32  70.61  70.72  70.83  70.94  71.06   74.13  74.27  74.41  74.55
Total operating costs        100.50 114.23 125.12 135.54 243.87 153.63 157.90 162.36 167.05  620.93 180.08 185.53 191.23
Operating Profit            115.51 116.44 151.37 169.58   83.7 198.07 264.93 303.86 333.54  (83.4) 466.60 516.66 551.27
Financial charges: IBRD          -      -      - 49.14  52.64  56.38  60.41  64.70  69.31   74.25  79.54  85.20  91.27
Others           -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -
Other income (expenses)     (19.58) (19.57) (19.57) (19.57) (19.57) (19.58) (19.57) (19.58) (19.57) (19.57) (19.58) (19.57) (19.57)
ProfitBeforeTaxes            95.93  96.87 131.80 100.87  11.50 122.11 184.95 219.58 244.66 (177.26) 367.48 411.89 440.43
Irrigation Fund (to 2009)/_2  6.86   7.32   8.78   9.69  10.40  11.17  13.42      -      -
NetProfitAfterTaxes          89.07  89.55 123.02  91.18   1.10 110.94 171.53 219.58 244.66 (177.26) 367.48 411.89 440.43
/_1: Other: Including highway research and miscellaneous
/_2: Irrigation fund: The contract between the provincial government and HPCD indicating irrigation fund will be ended in 2010.
- 54 -



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
ZXE Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2000   2001   2002   2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011   2012   2013   2014   2015
Sources:
Netprofits                  -       -       -   89.07  89.55 123.02  91.18   1.10 110.94 171.53 219.58 244.66 (177.26)  367.48  411.89  440.43
Depreciation                -       -       -   35.52  46.01  53.49  60.32  70.61  70.72  70.83  70.94  71.06   74.13   74.27   74.41   74.55
State contribution      32.54   54.24  119.33  .30.18  37.97  75.94  32.54  59.66     -      -     -      -       -       -       -        -
Provincial contribution  51.51   85.86  188.88  206.05  60.10 120.20  51.51  94.44
Borrowing:   IBRD           -   74.79  124.65  274.23 299.16  87.25 174.51 211.91     -      -     -      -       -       -       -        -
Local
Others                      -       -       -       -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -       -       -       -        -
Total                  84.05  214.89  432.86  '735.05 532.79 459.90 410.06 437.72 181.66 242.36 290.52 315.72 (103.13)  441.75  486.30  514.98
Avulications:
Capital expenditure     79.45  211.84  423.66  608.91 410.28 278.03 264.71 370.58   6.08   6.38   6.70   7.03    7.38    7.75    8.14    8.55
Other expenditure       14.01   23.36   43.73   67.20  76.67  89.74 105.91     -      -      -     -      -       -       -       -        -
Loan repayment:
IBRD                  -       -       -       -      -      - 49.14  52.64  56.38  60.41  64.70  69.31   74.25   79.54   85.20   91.27
Local
Changew/capital             -       -       -       - (L53) (4.80) (3.01) (2.35) (2.53) (7.45) (4.54) (3.61)  (3.87) (11.45)  (5.80)  (4.24)
Total                  93.46  235.20  467.39  676.11 485.42 362.97 416.75 420.87  59.93  59.34  66.86  72.73   77.76   75.84   87.54   95.58
Net Funds Flow          (9.41)   (20.31) (34.53)   58.94  47.37  96.93 (6.69)  16.85 121.73 183.02 223.66 242.99 (180.89)  365.91  398.76   419.4
Open balance                -  (9.41) (29.72) (64.251 (5.31) 42.06 138.99  132.3  149.2 270.88 453.90 677.56  920.55  739.66 1105.57 1504.33
Closingbalance          (9.41) (29.72) (64.25)  (5.31) 42.06 138.99 132.30  149.2 270.88 453.90 677.56 920.55  739.66 1105.57 1504.33 1923.73
D/S Cover                                                            308.3  136.2  322.2  401.2  449.0  455.5  (138.9)   555.4  570.8   564.2
Note: The expressway will only start operations in 2003.
- 55 -



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
ZXE Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year ending 31, December)
2003    2004    2005    2006   2007   2008   2009    2010   2011    2012    2013   2014   2015
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                    1076.29 1394.19  1621.03 1828.02 2139.83 2142.99 2146.31  2149.79 2153.45  2246.49 2250.52 2254.75 2259.20
Less:  Depreciation          35.52   81.53   135.02  195.34  265.95  336.67  407.50   478.44  549.50   623.63  697.90  772.31  846.86
Netfixedassets     1040.77 1312.66  1486.01 1632.68 1873.88 1806.32 1738.81  1671.35 1603.95  1622.86 1552.62 1482.44 1412.34
Current Assets
Inventory                    0.14    0.15     0.18    0.19    0.21    0.22    0.27    0.30    0.32     0.34    0.41    0.45    0.47
Receivable                    0.09    0.10    0.12    0.13    0.14    0.15    0.18    0.20    0.21     0.23    0.27    0.30    0.31
Cash                        (5.31)   42.06   138.99  132.30  149.15  270.88  453.90   677.56  920.55   739.66 1105.57 1504.33 1923.73
Subtotal             (j.)   42.31   139.29  132.62  149.50  271.25  454.35   678.06  921.08   740.23 1106.25 1505.08 1924.51
Other Assets                    -       -        -       -              -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -
Total Assets        1035.69 1354.97  1625.30 1765.30 2023.38 2077.57 2193.16  2349.41 2525.03  2363.09 2658.87 2987.52 3336.85
Liabilities & Equitv
State funds- Equity        539.16  557.73   735.96  747.56  843.99  952.01 1120.48  1336.84 1578.13  1486.53 1850.29 2258.27 2694.60
L/T loans:    IBRD         473.67  772.83   860.08  985.45 1144.72 1088.34 1027.93   963.23  893.92   819.67  740.13  654.93  563.66
Local                  -            -       -       -      -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -
Subtotal      473.67  772.83   860.08  985.45 1144.72 1088.34 1027.93   963.23  893.92   819.67  740.13  654.93  563.66
Current Liabilities         22.86   24.41    29.26   32.29   34.67   37.22   44.75    49.34   52.98    56.89   68.45   74.32   78.59
Other Liabilities               -       -        -       -       -      -       -        -       -        -       -       -       -
Total Liabilities & Equity    1035.69 1354.97  1625.30 1765.30 2023.38 2077.57 2193.16  2349.41 2525.03  2363.09 2658.87 2987.52 3336.85
Debt: Capital ratio        46.8    58.1    53.9    56.9   57.6   53.3   47.8    41.9    36.2    35.5    28.6   22.5    17.3
Debt/ equity ratio         48/52   59/41    55/45   58/42   58/42   54/46   49/51   43/57   38/62   37/63   30/70   24/76   19/81
Currentratio               (0.2)    1.7     4.8      4.1    4.3    7.3    10.2    13.7    17.4    13.0    16.2   20.3   24.5
Fixed assets: 80% of capital investment and 20% of maintenance.
Equity = Total asset - Total Liabilities.
Current liabilities = 10% of toll revenue.
- 56 -



APPENDIX B
Henan: Zhumadian - Xinyang Expressway
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Traffic (normal, AADT):
Small    Medium     Large      Small    Medium       Large      Tractor
car       bus       bus       truck      truck      truck     -Trailer    Total
Section 1:     Zhumadian - Queshan
2003        1,804     1,011       794       500       3,737       1,563      1,857     11,266
2005        2,046      1,147      900       567       4,239       1,807      2,106     12,812
2013        3,530      1,976     1,552      976       7,314      3,360       3,637     22,345
2023        5,983     3,344      2,628     1,653      12,399     6,266       6,170     38,443
Section 11:    Queshan - Minggang
2003        1,063      602       312        571       3,950      2,301        976      9,775
2005        1,206      683        354       648       4,480      2,659       1,107     11,137
2013        2,076      1,174      609      1,114      7,716      4,938       1,907     19,534
2023        3,513      1,983     1,030     1,881      13,058     9,193       3,230     33,888
Section III:   Minggang - Xinyang
2003        2,032      1,118     366        616       3,080      2,796       1,768     11,776
2005        2,305      1,268     415        699       3,493      3,231       2,006     13,417
2013        3,979     2,188       718      1,205      6,037      6,022       3,471     23,620
2023        6,751     3,708      1,218     2,040      10,251     11,251      5,902     41,121
2. Toll Rates (Yuan/ veh-km):           Increase 15% every four year.
Small    Medium     Large      Small      Medium      Large   Tractor
car       bus       Bus       truck      truck       Truck   -Trailer
2003                   0.25      0.25       0.50      0.25        0.50        0.75      1.00
3. Operating Taxes:
a. Business Tax                   5% Of total revenue.
b. City Tax                       7% Of business tax.
c. Education levy                 3% Of business tax.
4. Operating Cost:
a. Wages and benefits:                Y 26,000/ staff, 100 staffs/ station, 5 stations; increase 5% pa.
b. Maintenance (million Yuan/ km): Increase 5% pa.
Routine             Medium           Major
Maintenance         Maintenance     Maintenance
(annual)           (/5 years)     (1/10 years)
0.13                0.90             3.0
c. Operating materials and supplies        0.286 Million Yuan per km.
d. Administration                           60% Of wage and benefits.
e. Other                                   0.048 Million Yuan per km.
f. Depreciation                              30 Years straight-line method.
5. Irrigation Fund                           3.0% of total revenue to 2009.
6. Borrowing:      IBRD            7.0% On 20 year maturaties, LIBOR US$ based single currency including 5 years grace period.
- 57 -



APPENDIX C
Henan: Zhumadian - Xinyang Expressway
FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Summary:
Display Range is from 6.5% to 11.0% FIRR on total investment (in %)
Entire Range is from 6.8% to 10.8% FIRR on total investment (in %)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%
Statistics:                                  Iie           Percentiles:
Trials                                 1000                                              FIRR on total
Mean                                   8.8%                             Percentile    investment (in %)
Median                                 8.8%                                   0%                 6.8%
Mode                                     ---                                 10%                 7.8%
Standard Deviation                     0.8%          Low Scenario           20%                  8.1%
Variance                               0.0%                          -      30%                  8.4%
Skewness                               -0.02         Most Likely            40%.                 8.6%
Kurtosis                                2.41                                50%                  8.8%
Coeff. of Variability                   0.09         High Scenario          60%                  9.0%
Range Minimum                          6.8%                                 70%                  9.3%
Range Maximum                         10.8%                                 80%                  9.6%
Range Width                            3.9%                                  90%                 9.8%
Mean Std. Error                       0.02%                                100%                 10.8%
Forecast Zhumadian - Xinyang Expressway (2004)
1,000 Trials                             Frequency Chart                                 0 Outliers
.029                                                                              29
.022                                                                             21.75
.007                                                                             72
.000                                                                       4
6.5%             7.6%      F       .8%             9.9%             11.0%
FIRR on total investment (in %)
Assumptions
Assumption: Total Revenue                                  Assumption: Total Working Costs
Triangular distribution with parameters:                   Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                      90.0%                         Minimum               90.0%
Likeliest                   100.0%                         Likeliest            100.0%
Maximum                     110.0%                         Maximum              110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%                     Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%                         Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
Assumption: Traffic Growth
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                        100.0%
Standard Dev.                10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 100.1%
- 58 -



APPENDIX D
Page I of 2
Henan Province: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (Ninth Five Year Plan)
(Yuan million)
1996      1997      1998       1999       2000      Total
Revenue
I Roadmaintenancefee                       1,572.97   1,707.25   1,710.00   1,812.60    1,921.36   8,724.18
2 Tolls                                    1,307.23   1,439.76   1,707.30   2,070.00    2,167.50   8,691.79
3 Surcharge on passenger tickets              66.95     61.00     68.00      71.40      74.97    342.32
4 Surcharge on freight                        84.60     83.00     89.00      93.45      98.12    448.17
5 Vehiclepurchasefee                         30.00     130.00    130.00     135.00     140.00    665.00
6 Financial allocation                            -         -    470.00          -          -    470.00
7 Local financial allocation                  50.00     50.00    200.00     180.00     220.00    700.00
8 MOC subsidy                                444.83    398.38    544.00    600.00      900.00   2,887.21
9 State allocation                            45.00     45.00     71.40      80.00      80.00    321.40
10 Enterprise bond                                -    100.00    600.00       70.00     200.00    970.00
11 Bankloan                                  420.00    956.00   2,490.00   3,950.00    4,341.10  12,157.10
12 Fund-raised by enterprise                 205.00          -    210.00    300.00      250.00    965.00
13 Other funds                               544.00    546.00   1,000.00    560.00      565.00   3,215.00
Total                                    4.870.58   5.516.39   9.289.70   9922.45   10,958.05  40.557.17
Expenditure:
I New construction                         3,675.20   3,877.00   7,227.72   7,541.91    8,265.98  30,587.81
2 Taxes                                       71.90    177.92    201.13    235.27      247.07    933.29
3 Traffic safety supervision                  10.00     20.00     33.63      31.00      31.00    125.63
4 Major maintenance                          121.30    295.60    386.00    462.00      510.30   1,775.20
5 Medium maintenance                         112.02    176.35    262.10    276.00      310.00   1,136.47
6 Routine maintenance                        397.86    409.63    425.30    436.61      440.23   2,109.63
7 Administration and study                   353.38    386.69    427.10    491.76      517.26   2,176.19
8 Repayment of interest and principle        128.92    173.20    326.72    447.90      636.21   1,712.95
Total                                    4,870.58   5.516.39   9.289.70   9922.45   10.958.05  40,557.17
Total RoadNetwork (km) -(a)                      50,907    55,015    57,172    58,700      60,000   281,794
Average annual increase                            --      8.1%       3.9%      2.7%        2.2%      3.3%
Total maint. expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) /_-  631.18    881.58   1,073.40   1,174.61    1,260.53   5,021.30
Average unit maint. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  12.40  16.02    18.77      20.01      21.01      17.82
Average annual increase (in %)                      --    29.2%      17.2%      6.6%        5.0%     11.1%
I_1: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Actual :1996-1998; estimates: 1999-2000.
- 59 -



APPENDIX D
Page 2 of 2
Henan Province: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (Tenth Five Year Plan)
(Yuan million)
2001      2002      2003    2004        2005    Total
Revenue
1 Road maintenance fee                    2,036.64   2,158.84   2,288.37  2,425.67   2,571.21 11,480.73
2 Tolls                                   2,328.38   2,768.79   3,429.73  3,716.22   3,902.03 16,145.15
3 Surcharge on passengertickets             78.72      82.65     86.79    91.13      95.68   434.97
4 Surcharge on freight                      103.03    108.18    113.59   119.27     125.23   569.30
5 Vehicle purchase fee                     145.00    150.00    155.00   160.00      165.00   775.00
6 Financial allocation                          -          -         -        -          -        -
7 Local financial allocation               310.00    420.00    366.62   500.00    400.00  1,996.62
8 MOC subsidy                             1,000.00    800.00    700.00   600.00    500.00  3,600.00
9 State allocation                          80.00      80.00     80.00    80.00      80.00   400.00
10 Enterprise bond                          300.00    400.00    500.00   500.00    500.00  2,200.00
11 Bank loan                               3,981.00   3,106.30   2,805.00  2,550.00   2,350.00 14,792.30
12 Fund-raised by enterprise                350.00    350.00     128.40    50.00          -   878.40
13 Other funds                              570.16    575.36    580.36   585.35      590.37  2,901.60
Total                                  11.282.93  11.000.12  11,233.86 11.377.64  11.279.52 56.174.07
Emxenditure:
I New construction                        7,905.53   7,007.00   5,994.46  5,447.77   4,952.00 31,306.76
2 Taxes                                    264.46    305.84    366.19   394.96    415.44  1,746.89
3 Traffic safety supervision                32.00      35.00     40.00    40.00      40.00   187.00
4 Major maintenance                        732.00    786.00    840.00   932.00   1,021.00  4,311.00
5 Medium maintenance                       512.50    537.50    562.50   587.50    630.00  2,830.00
6 Routine maintenance                      595.77    609.72    626.33   664.96      670.23  3,167.01
7 Administration and study                 552.92    631.20    743.30   800.00      842.43  3,569.85
8 Repayment of interest and principle      687.75   1,087.86   2,061.08  2,510.45   2,708.42  9,055.56
Total                                  11.282.93  11000.12  11,233.86 11,377.64  11279.52 56174.07
Total Road Network (km) -(a)                     61,000    62,500    63,500   64,300    65,000  316,300
Average annual increase                          1.7%      2.5%       1.6%     1.3%       1.1%     1.3%
Total maint. Expenditure (million Yuan) -(b) /1  1,840.27   1,933.22   2,028.83  2,184.46   2,321.23 10,308.01
Average unit maint. Expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)  30.17  30.93    31.95    33.97      35.71    32.59
Average annual increase                              -     2.5%       3.3%     6.3%      5.1%      3.4%
/_1: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
Forecast 2001-2005.
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Thirdl Henan Provincial Highway Project
Procurement
This Annex is based on a review conducted during project preparation of the agencies capacity in
procurement and financial management. The Project Procurement Capacity Assessment (PPCA) is in the
Project Files, and its findings are summarized below. The Financial Management Review is presented in
Annex 13. Both assessments have (i) concluded that the capacity is generally adequate in view of the
extensive experience of the agencies gained under previous projects, and (ii) recommended some
improvements (mostly additional training of concemed staff, and preparation of manuals to guide
provincial and local units involved in day-to-day implementation of project tasks). These improvements
have been accepted and acted upon by HPCD.
Summary of PPCA's findings
The assessment confirmed that the provincial agencies have managed, in a generally satisfactory
manner, the ongoing three highway projects (two of which are nearing completion and the last is about at
mid-term); regarding the new project, HPCD provided assurances that the core staff involved in previous
projects will be maintained . On the other side, some shortcomings have been identified:
* lack of consolidated national procurement law: this is a country-wide issue being addressed as
part of the ongoing dialegue between Central Government and the Bank;
* lengthy review process by MEIEAD on imported mechanical and electrical equipment; to
mitigate this risk, a two-stage bidding procedure will be used for the supply and installation of
the electrical and mechajnical systems along the expressway, and procurement planning will
incorporate additional time for the review process. In addition, to facilitate the design, a
Provincial Conceptual Framework for E&M works will be prepared in the first year of the
project; and
X   deviations of intemal NCB procedures from Bank NCB procedures (mostly: use of
bracketing, limitation of number of applicants in some instances, short period allowed for bid
preparation). These will be waived in favor of World Bank NCB procedures in a
supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement. In this letter, Henan agrees to pay particular
attention to ensure that the following procedures are followed with respect to NCB
procurement:
a) all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national
circulation in the Borrower's country;
b) such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses; and in any
event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement
in such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission;
c) qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of
each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents;
d) all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect Henan
in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify
the required form and amount of such security;
e) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids;
f) all bids shall be openied in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to be
- 61 -



present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, but
bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening;
g) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard
contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by Henan; and
h) each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award,
to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise
to modify the bid as originally submitted.
An action plan has been devised to strengthen HPCD units mostly through preparation of a
Project Procurement Manual and additional procurement training. Furthermore, a Procurement Plan
using computerized project management software has been prepared, and attached to HPCD's Project
Implementation Plan. Based on the above considerations, the assessment concludes that:
1. the proposed project can safely apply the same thresholds (in terms of procurement methods or
prior review) as the ones used under the previous projects, and
2. the general risk is rated "Low".
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    Procurement would be carried out as shown in Table A. Procurement under the project will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) as well
as the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The documentation for procurement, which covers the
prequalification of contractors, ICB and national competitive bidding (NCB) for civil works, and ICB for
goods and consultant services was standardized for Chinese conditions by the Chinese government and the
Bank on the basis of model documents which would be used for all relevant procurement processes under
the project. Where no agreed model documents exist, Bank standard documents would be used. The
General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in the UN Development Business issue
No.510 of May 16, 1999.
2.    Works (US$302 M). Civil works for Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) would be divided
into 9 contracts, with an average size of about US$23 million including contingencies. Electro-mechanical
works (EMW) would be handled as one contract of about US$17 million equivalent. The 9 civil works
contracts and the EMW contract for ZXE would be procured under ICB procedures. There would be one
tender call for the civil works contracts which would be bid on a slice-and-package basis; qualified firms
would be allowed to bid for more than one contract as so to attract international contractors and large
Chinese contractors. The EMW contract would be procured under a two-stage bidding procedure which is
appropriate for the supply and installation of E&M systems.
3.    Contractors bidding for civil works under ICB would be prequalified. For all civil works and
EMW contracts estimated to cost over $10 million, in addition to advertisement in at least one newspaper
of national circulation in the Borrower's country, invitations for prequalification will be advertised as
Specific Procurement Notices in the UN Development Business and/or well-known technical magazines,
newspapers, and trade publications of wide international circulation. Each contract for works estimated to
cost US$50 million or more will include provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard
bidding documents for works referred to in para.2.42 of the above-mentioned Guidelines.
-62 -



4.    Other works, including facilities along the expressway (estimated at US$9 million), construction of
linking roads (US$24.4 million), and some of local roads improvements (with a cost of US$31.2 million),
would be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve
contracts estimated to cost generally less than US$5 million each. Since these contracts will be relatively
small, scattered throughout the province and implemented over four years, ICB would neither be justified
nor practical, but foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding. Prequalification will be conducted
for NCB civil works related to the expressway and the linking roads.
5.    Based on experience with previous rural roads programs, generally not more than three bids are
received for contracts costing less than US$2 million. Moreover most of the bidders come from the
immediate area of the contracted worlcs, since remote larger contractors generally do not wish to mobilize
for small contracts. In recognition of this, and in order to reduce unnecessary administrative overhead
while ensuring sufficient competition., local roads contracts costing less than RMB 10 million (US$1.2
million) up to US$11.4 million in aggregate may be awarded under simplified procurement procedures,
whereby a minimum of three bids would be invited from qualified contractors and bids would be opened in
public. This has the advantage of time savings in the bidding process as well as creating more job
opportunities for the poor during construction. Power supply for traffic engineering and facilities along
ZXE is obtainable only from one source, since the local electricity companies are monopolies; therefore
contracts for power supply will be procured by direct contracting, up to US$2 million in aggregate.
6.    Equipment (US$3.5 million ). Generally, contracts for goods and equipment of more than
US$250,000 equivalent would be awarded under ICB. To the extent possible, these contracts would be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost at least US$1 million. Domestic manufacturers competing under
ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15% for goods, or the
prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Other items or groups of items covering maintenance
equipment, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost under
US$250,000 per contract package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.0 million, would be
procured following intemational shopping procedures on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three suppliers firom two countries eligible under the Bank Guidelines for
Procurement.
7.    Consultants services (US$3.4 million, Table Al). All consultants required for construction
supervision, staff training, technical assistance and studies, would be selected and employed under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Standard Request for Proposals, dated July 1997 and revised
in April 1998 and July 1999, will be used. Consultants for construction supervision will be selected using
the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. QCBS would also be used for training contracts
each costing more than US$100,000. Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications would be used for
contracts costing less than US$100,000 each related to training, pavement research, and road management
TA. Individual consultants would be used for pavement research and road management TA, for an amount
not exceeding US$ 100,000 in each case. Both for the pavement research and road management
consultancies, local expertise available from the various provincial universities and institutes, which is
critical to project implementation, would be used as much as possible, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. All consultants services above US$200,000 must be advertised in the UN
Development Business. The arrangernents by selection method and aggregate value for each category are
shown in Table Al below.
- 63 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$ million, and including contingencies)
Works
Expressway civil works            207.37                                               207.37
(99.50)                                             (99.50)
Linking roads                                   24.43                                  24.43
(9.69)                                (9.69)
Facilities along expressway                     9.00          2.00                     11.00
(4.29)       (0.96)                    (5.25)
E&M works                          17.37                                               17.37
(14.25)                                             (14.25)
Local roads improvement                         31.22        11.36                     42.58
(9.97)       (3.63)                   (13.60)
Equipment                          2.54                       1.00                      3.54
(2.00)                    (0.80)                    (2.80)
Construction supervision                                      2.33         7.80        10.13
(2.33)                   (2.33)
Training and studies                                          1.08         0.71         1.79
(1.08)                   (1.08)
Land acquisition & resettlement                                           24.02        24.02
Interest during construction                                              15.80        15.80
Front-end fee                                                 1.50                      1.50
(1.50)                   (1.50)
Tnaal                                227.28        64.65        19.27        48.33        359.53
(115.75)     (23.95)      (10.30)                   (150.00)
(a) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(b) Other includes direct contracting, simplified procedures for small works, international shopping, consulting
services and training, and the front-end fee.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arranqements
(in US$ million, and includinq continqencies)
Supervision                        2.33                                    7.80        10.13
(2.33)                                             (2.33)
Training                            0.20        0.18                       0.21         0.59
(0.20)       (0.18)                                 (0.38)
Pavement Research                               0.30          0.10                      0.40
(0.30)       (0.10)                   (0.40)
Road Management                                  0.20         0.10         0.40         0.70
(0.20)       (0.10)                    (0.30)
Other Action Plans                                                         0.10         0.10
Tota                                  2.53         0.68          0.20         8.41        11.92
(2.53)       (0.68)       (0.20)                    (3.41)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-based Selection
CQ  = Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Guidelines)
- 64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of US$
2 million or more; also, the first three contracts under the Local Roads component, as well as the contracts
for power supply, will be subjecty to prior review; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than
US$250,000 per contract; and (c) consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Regarding consultant contracts, terms of reference
and single-source selections, regardless of the value of the contract, will be subject to prior review. Prior
review will thus apply to an estimated 90%, 70% and 90% of the total contract values of works, goods and
services financed by the Bank, respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-review
procedures would be followed. The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review is expected to
be no less than 20%.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-Conrit Valuie                                    Contacts Subei 0
T!6e6;-h6td            Prcwurement        P-  -.
Ex~pendtture Category:     (U$06Uns                      et*
1. Works                    More than 10.00               ICB                10 contracts/$234m
More than 2.00               NCB                 8 contracts/$33m
Less than 2.00              NCB              First 3 LRIPC contracts
and power supply
contracts/$5m.
2. Goods                    More than 0.25                ICB                2 contracts/$2.5m
Less than 0.25             Shopping
3. Services            More than 0.10 for firms or       QCBS                 Scontracts/$3.lm
0.05 for individuals
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 277.6 m
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Works:                                                          (in %, Fforeign, L=local)
Expressway construction                   96.00                          48
Linking roads                             9.50                           40
Rural roads                               13.00                          32
Traffic engineering                       13.00                          82
Goods:
Equipment                                 2.80                       IOOF or 75L
Services:
Works supervision                         2.30                          1 OOF
Training and studies                       1.08                         10OF
Unallocated:                                10.82
Total Project Costs                        148.50
Interest during construction        0.00
Front-end fee         1.50
Total                                      150.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a)
civil works in contracts of less than US$2.0 million, (b) goods in contracts of less than US$250,000, (c)
services provided by consulting firms in contracts of less than US$100,000, and (d) services provided by
individual consultants in contracts of less than US$50,000 and (e) training.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be opened with an authorized allocation of
US$10 million equivalent, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period.
Financial Management Assessment:
A review of financial management systems has been conducted and is presented in Annex 13.
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           12
First Bank mission (identification)             01/11/99                     01/11/99
Appraisal mission departure                     01/10/2000                   01/17/2000
Negotiations                                    02/21/2000                   03/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000                   07/31/2000
Prepared by:
Henan Provincial Communications Department
Preparation assistance:
Italian Consultant Trust Fund for the technical review of engineering design.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciafity
Jacques Tollie                    Task Team Leader/Engineering/Institutional
Robin Carruthers                  Economics
Hank Yen                          Eco/fmancial analysis
Claude Salem                     Institutional development
Youlan Zou                        Resettlement
Soichiro Seki                     Environment
Lutfallah Tueni                   Engineering
William Paterson                  Road management systems
Maria Luisa Juico                 Program assistant
Setty Pendakur                    Rural roads, traffic safety, and institutional strengthening
Yang Dawei (RMC)                  Procurement asssessment
Youhua Yu (RMC)                   Financial management
HPCD Team
Shi Faliang, Liu Zhangtu          Deputy Directors
Zhu Liping                        Planning and coordination
Chen Hou He                       Engineering design team
Xu Qiang                          EIA and RAP
Tang Guangming                    PIP
Zhang Heshui, Niu Yongliang       Implementation action plan
-67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan- HPCD, January 2000
Performance Monitoring Indicators, September 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Procurement Capacity Assessment, December 1999
Financial Management Capacity Assessment, December 1999
Review of Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents:
-Phase I Final Report, November 1999
-Phase II Final Report
C. Other
Feasibility Studies
Feasibility Study Report, March 1999
Revised Traffic Projections, June 1999
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Resettlement Action Plans for ZXE and Linking Roads, November 1999
Resettlement Policy Framework for LRIPC, November 1999
Environment (EIA, EAP, Summary)
EIA, EAP, Summary for ZXE, December 1999
EIA, EAP for Linking Roads, November 1999
Initial Environmental Examination and EAP for LRIPC, November 1999
Institutional Strengthening and Training Report, September 1999
Equipment Procurement Report, January 2000
Institutional Development Action Plans
IDRP outline, January 2000
Proposal for research study on Pavement Performance, July 1999
Proposal for Road Management Improvement, December 1999
Highway Quality Improvement Program, September 1999
Action Plan for Toll Highway Commercialization, December 1999
Action Plan for Trade Facilitation, December 1999
Memorandum of Understanding for Henan/Hubei coordination, December 1999
Traffic Safety
Study on Economic Losses due to Road Traffic Accidents, August 1999
Traffic Safety Action Plans, November 1999
Traffic Safety Policy Statement, February 2000
- 68 -



Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction
Selection of supervision mode, February 1999
Draft RFP, Februarv 2000
Local Roads Improvement in Poor Counties
Program Details, September 1999
Summary Tables, January 2000
Prequalification Document for Civil Works, May 1999
*Including electronic files
-69 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                IBRD       IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3653      1999 PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFCHIN   CONTAINERTRANSPORT                            71.00       0.00         o.o0       71.00       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-36953    1999 PRC                           HEALTH IX                                 10.00      50.00         0.00       59.25       0.92      0.00
CN-PE-4126B    1999 MINISTRY OF FINANCE           NAT.HWY4-HUBEIIHUNAN                     350.00       0.00         o.0o      350.00       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-41890    1999 PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHIN  LIAONING URB TRANSP                          150.00       0.00         0.00      150.00      10.00      0.0o
CN-PE-42299    1999 GOC                           TEC COOP CREDIT IV                        10.00      35.00         0.00       44.39       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-43933    1999 PRC                           SICHUAN URB. ENV. I                      150.00       2.00         0.00      152.01       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-46051    1999 PRC                           HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                       20.00      50.00         0.00       69.25       1.00      0.00
cN-PE-46564    1999 PRC                           WESTERN POVERTY RED                       60.00      100.00        0.00      158.76      13.30      o.0o
CN-PE-46829    1999 PRC                           RENEWABLE PROJECT                        100.00       0.00         0.00      100.00       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-49665    1999 PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFCHIN  ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                              90.00      30.00         0.00      118.64      10.80      0.00
CN-PE-50036    1999 MINISTRY OF FINANCE           ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                     200.00        0.00        0.00      198.00      12.90      0.00
CN-PE-51705    1999 MINISTRY OF FINANCE           FUJIAN IIHWY                             200.00       0.00         0.00      200.00       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-51556    1999 PRC                           ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                       27.40        5.61        0.00       32.89       3.40      0.00
CN-PE-51s88     1999 PRC                          GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                      80.00       20.00        0.00       99.67       8.00      0.00
CN-PE-56216    1999 CHINA                         LOESS PLATEAU II                         100.00      50.00         0.00      149.38       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-57352    1999 PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFCHIN  4THRURALWATERSUPP                               16.00      30.00         0.00       45.71       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-58308    1999 PRC                           PENSION REFORM PJT                         0.00        5.00        0.00        4.95       0.00      o.0o
CN-PE-63123    1999 PRC                           YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                      40.00      40.00         0.00       78.67      10.00      o.00
CN-PE-3539      1998 PRC                          SUSTCOAST RES DEV                        100.00        0.00        0.00       93.23      -1.77      0.00
CN-PE-3566      1998 PRC                          BASIC HEALTH                               0.00      85.00         0.00       79.62       0.58      0.00
CN-PE-35698    1998 GOC                           HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                     300.00       0.00         0.00      300.00      18.00      0.00
CN-PE-3591     1998 PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHIN  STATE FARMS COMMERCI                         150.00        0.00        0.00       94.93     -32.57      0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998 MINISTRY OF FINANCE          ENERGY CONSERVATION                       63.00        0.00        0.00       63.00       3.80      0.00
CN-PE-3614      1998 CHINA                        GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                     200.00        0.00        0.00      192.00      10.14      0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998 PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA 2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                        123.00        0.00        0.00      123.00      23.00      0.00
CN-PE-36414    1998 PRC                           GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                        72.00       20.00        0.00       88.60      -0.70      0.00
CN-PE-36949    1998 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN  NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                             250.00        0.00        0.00      225.97       0.97      0.00
ON-PE-40185    1998 PRC                           SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                      95.00        0.00        0.00       90.08      25.98      0.00
CN-PE-45788    1998 PRC                           TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                       230.00        0.00        0.00      220.50      41.70      0.00
cN-PE-46563    1998 PRC                           TARIMBASINII                              90.00      60.00         0.00      137.14       7.22      0.00
CN-PE-46952    1998 GO                           FOREST DEV. POOR AR                      100.00      100.00        0.00      190.46       1.50     12.00
CN-PE-49700    1998 PRC                           IAIL-2                                   300.00        0.00        0.00      280.00      15.30      0.00
CN-PE-51736    1998 PRC                           E. CHINAIJIANGSU PWR                     250.00        0.00        0.00      250.00     123.16      0.00
CN-PE-56491    1998 PRC                           HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                           0.00       28.40        0.00        5.59     -10.45      0.00
CN-PE-34081    1997 PRC                           XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                     430.00        0.00        0.00      304.10      99.95      0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997 PRC                          QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                      30.00      150.00        o.o0      140.82      27.81      0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997 PRC                          VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                      10.00       20.00        0.00        9.08      -2.77      0.00
CN-PE-3637      1997 PRC                          NATL RUR WATER III                         0.00       70.00        0.00       60.51      13.89      -0.01
CN-PE-36405    1997 GOC                           WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                     400.00        0.00        0.00      313.20      23.19      0.00
GN-PE-3643      1997 PRC                          XINJLANG HIGHWAYS II                     300.00        0.00        0.00      230.72      72.72      0.00
CN-PE-3650      1997 PRC                          TUOKETUO POWERJINNER                     400.00        0.00        0.00      379.68     155.88      17.19
ON-PE-3654      1997 PRC                          HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                     400.00        0.00        0.00      313.08      93.06      0.00
CN-PE-36952    1997 PRC                           BASIC ED. IV                               0.00       85.00        0.00       37.56     -25.47      0.00
CN-PE-38988    1997 GO                           HEILONGJIANG ADP                         120.00        0.00        0.00       89.02      11.32      0.00
CN-PE-44485    1997 PRC                           SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                      400.00        o.0o        0.00      361.84      15.45      0.00
CN-PE-34618    1996 P.R.C.                        LABORMARKETDEV.                           10.00       20.00        0.00       22.35      22.19      0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996 PRC                          ERTAN HYDRO II                           400.00        0.00        0.00       21.59     -17.07      0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996                              ANIMAL FEED                              150.00        0.00        0.00      136.59     118.80     26.60
CN-PE-3569      1996                              SHANGHAI-ZHEJLANG Hi                     260.00        o.0o        7.75      100.25      35.02     26.02
CN-PE-3589      1996                              DISEASE PREVENTION                         0.00      100.00        0.00       67.07      61.61       0.00
-70 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3594     1996 PRC                          GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                    60.00       90.00        0.00     124.68     31.12       0.00
CN-PE-3599     1996 YUNNAN PROV. GOV.            YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                    125.00       25.00        0.00     137.81     25.42       0.00
CN-PE-3602     1996 PRC                          HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                  125.00       25.00        0.00     123.89     84.30       0.00
CN-PE-3638     1996 PRC                          SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                   80.00      20.00         0.00      73.10     25.66       0.00
CN-PE-3646     1996 PRC                          CHONGQING IND POLCT                    170.00       0.00       77.99      91.61    114.09       1.19
CN-PE-3648     1996 SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT           SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                  250.00        0.00        0.00     148.15     83.34       0.00
CN-PE-3649     1996 CHINA                        SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                    0.00      100.00        0.00      30.96     -4.68       0.00
CN-PE-3652     1996 PRC                          2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                  210.00        0.00        0.00     139.29     67.28       0.00
CN-PE-36950    1996 PRC                          BASIC ED. POOR l!I                      0.00      100.00        0.00       6.39    -18.67       0.00
CN-PE-40513    1996 PRC                          2ND HENAN PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00        0.00     165.73     55.72       0.00
CN-PE-3493     1995 PRC                          INLAND WATERWAYS                      210.00        0.00        0.00      51.72    -13.39       0.00
CN-PE-3571     1995 PRC                          RAILWAYS VIl                          400.00        0.00       29.00     337.89    218.88       3.69
CN-PE-3585     1995 GOC                          SHENYANG IND. REFORM                  175.00        0.00        0.00      93.69     54.69       0.00
CN-PE-3596     1995 PRC                          YANGTZE BASIN WATER                   100.00      110.00        0.00      24.26    -14.78       0.00
CN-PE-3598     1995 PRC                          LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                   110.00       0.00        0.00      64.64     57.53       0.00
CN-PE-3600     1995 PRC                          TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                  200.00        0.00        O.0O     117.40     49.30       0.00
CN-PE-3603     1995 MOF                          ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                  275.00       75.00       20.00     189.23    155.89       9.87
CN-PE-36041    1995 PRC                          FISCAL & TAX REF. &                    25.00       25.00        0.00      41.08     42.10       0.00
CN-PE-3612     1995 PRC                          XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                     150.00       0.00        0.00      35.46     30.48       0.00
CN-PE-3634     1995 PRC                          MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                    0.00       90.00        0.00      14.30      8.18       0.00
CN-PE-3636     1995 PRO                          BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00      100.00        0.00       3.14      0.84       o.o0
CN-PE-3639     1995 GOC                          SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   47,50      200.00        0.00      81.40     30.95       0.00
CN-PE-3642     1995 PRC                          ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00        0.00     120.10    -40.04       0.00
CN-PE-36947    1995 MOH                          SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  270.00        0.00        0.00     132.50    123.20       91.29
CN-PE-37156    1995 PRC                          IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00       20.00        7.00       1.75      11.44      0.36
CN-PE-3502     1994 PRC                          RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00        0.00      23.11      17.92      0.00
CN-PE-3504     1994 PRO                          HEBEUHENAN NATIONAL                   380.00        0.00        0.00      39.36     20.34       0.00
CN-PE-3540     1994 PRC                          LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00      150.00        0.00      21.43    -24.42       0.00
CN-PE-3557     1994 PRC                          FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00      200.00        0.00      31.38      9.41     -35.98
CN-PE-3562     1994 PRC                          XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00        0.00       0.43      0.43       0.00
CN-PE-3586     1994 PRC                          SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                   160.00       0.00        0.00      58.50     54.71       0.00
CN-PE-3593     1994 GO                          SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00      205.00        0.00      23.97     -8.90       0.00
CN-PE-3595     1994 SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT    RED SOILS II DEVELOP                      0.00      150.00        0.00      39.81      19.95      0.00
CN-PE-3609     1994 GOC                          SICHUAN GAS DEV&                      255.00        0.00        0.00     116.34     70.85       0.00
cN-PE-3622     1994 PRC                          CONSERVATION                          150.00        0.00        0.00       7.36      7.37       0.00
CN-PE-3626     1994 PRC                          SHANGHAI MTP II                       140.00        0.00        0.00      58.63     44.62      16.70
CN-PE-3641     1994 PRC                          FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   350.00        0.00        0.00      65.19     54.12       0.00
CN-PE-3644     1994 PRC                          YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                    0.00      110.00        0.00      22.84      10.22      0.00
CN-PE-3518     1993 PRC                          XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT               240.00        0.00        0.00       2.08      2.06       0.00
CN-PE-3533     1993 PRC                          GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT              150.00       0.00       40.35       11.59    43.93       5.00
CN-PE-3559     1993 PRC                          TIANJIN IND. II                         0.00      115.00        0.00       6.87     -3.95       0.00
CN-PE-3561     1993 PRC                          AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                    0.00      147.00        0.o00      5.41      0.00       0.00
CN-PE-3567     1993 PRO                          SICHUAN ADP                             0.00      100.00        0.00       4.46      2.93       2.99
GN-PE-3570     1993 PRC                          EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                  420.00        0.00        0.00      83.23     83.24     -10.54
CN-PE-3580     1993 PRC                          RAILWAY VI                            250.00        0.00        0.00       4.15      2.04       0.00
CN-PE-3581     1993 PRC                          SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.           120.00       0.00        0.00       8.25      8.25       0.00
CN-PE-3592     1993 PRC                          HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                   0.00       50.00        0.00      16.55     16.80       0.00
CN-PE-3597     1993 PRC                          REF. INSTL.& PREINV                    100.00     100.00        0.00      47.41     43.08       0.00
CN-PE-3616     1993 ROC                          TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  300.00        0.00        0.00      69.67     56.19       0.00
CN-PE-3623     1993 PRC                          TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                     0.00       60.00        0.00      17.68     17.18       0.00
CN-PE-3627     1993 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   FINANCIALSECTORT.A                     325.00      165.00        0.00     314.28    315.24     125.24
CN-PE-3632     1993 RO.C.                        GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                    0.00       50.00        0.00      10.57     11.06       0.59
CN-PE-3534     1992                              ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                    220.00        0.00        0.00      19.75     19.76       18.56
CN-PE-3544     1992                              ZHEJLANGPROVTRANSP                      0.00      130.00        0.00        1.46    -3.20       0.00
CN-PE-3568     1992                              EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                    0.00      100.00        0.00      15.29     12.42       -1.75
TIANJIN URB DEV & EN
Total:   14,926.90    4,078.01     182.09   10,601.37   3,084.26    309.01
- 71 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
o                Pacific Ports                 0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                8.50    0.00    3.39    0.00    8.50    0.00    3.39    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.00    0.99    0.00    3.76    0.00    0.99    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                12.47    0.00    1.95    6.66   12.47    0.00     1.95    6.66
1994               China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1994               China Walden JV               0.00    0.00    5.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.17    0.00
1994               Dynamic Fund                  0.00    0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.08    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                 19.36    0.00    2.40   36.89   19.36    0.00    2.40   36.89
1994/97            PTP Leshan                   11.20    0.00    1.00   14.00   11.20    0.00     1.00   14.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou                21.81    0.00    4.15   41.60   21.81    0.00    4.15   41.60
1995              Newbridge Inv.                 0.00    0.00    7.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.89    0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                   22.00    0.00    2.48   22.20   22.00    0.00    2.48   22.20
1996               Beijing Hormel                4.64    0.00    0.50    4.95    4.64    0.00    0.50    4.95
1996               Nanjing Kumho                15.03    0.00    3.81   42:73   12.66    0.00    3.81   35.98
1996               Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1996               Tianjin Kumho                11.17    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri              3.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.97    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                        0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance               13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997               PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   10.96    0.00    0.00   22.04
1998               Chengdu Chemical              0.00    0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   18.77    0.00    0.00   40.23
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               CIG Port Holding              0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Leshan Scana                  6.10    0.00    1.35    0.00    3.00    0.00    1.35    0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC                 2.75    0.00    0.00    2.75    2.25    0.00    0.00    2.25
1998               WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Zhen Jing                     0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      234.72    0.00   59.67  391.83  208.68    0.00   47.81  343.47
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
-72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
East                                                    912199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asia&& Low
China    Pacific   Income        Development diamond
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (m/llions)                        1.238.6     1.817      3.515                   Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$1                        750        990        520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billionsl                        928.9       1 802     1.844
Averaue annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation /%)                                             1.0        1.2       1.7
Labor force 1%)                                            1.3        1 6       1 9      GNP                                 Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate flatest vear available. 19924981                                    capita                /nrnllment
Povertv t% of ooDutation below national ooverfv i/nei       6
Urban ooDulation (% of total oooulttion)                   33         35         31
Life exDectanev at birth (veers)                           70         69         63
Infant mortalitv (oer 1. 000 ive birthsl                   32         37         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                 16         20                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water 1% of Dovulation)                     83         77         74
Uiliteracy (% ofoooulation aOe 15+)                        17         15         32
Gross orimarv enrollment (%aofschool-aea ooulalion)       120        117        13              China        Low-income group
Mate                                                    120        119        113
Female                                                  120        118        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP fUSS billions)                             172.3    268.2       902.0     960.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   28.5     36 1        38.2      38.8                       Trade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP                4,8      13 6       23.0      19.1
Gross domestic savinas/GOP                      29.0      36 2       42.6      43.4
Gross national savinos/GDP                      29 0      36 2       41.5      41.4
Current account balance/GDP                      0.2       0.1        3.8       3.4      Domestic                      Investment
Interest Davments/GDP                              ..      0.4        0.6       0.7      +aings
Total debt/GDP                                     ..    13.2        16.3      16.2
Total debt servie/exoorts                          .       9.6        9.8       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                    .       14.9
Present value of debtlexoorts                                .       62.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GOP                                    9.8      10.3       8.8        7.8       70               Chmna -0Low-incomegroup
GNP oer cacita                         8.       8.8       7 4        6.5       8.2
Excorts of coods and services         18.4      14 4      23.1        4.6       44
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                     29.4      26.8       18.7      18.0
Industrv                                        47.1      43.9       49.5      49.2    20
Manufacturina                                 31.1      34.4       37.3       36.8     10
Services                                        23.4      29.3       32.1      32.8
Private consumotion                             63.4      51.3       45.7      44.5             93   94   95   96   97   95
General aovernment consumntion                   7.5      12.5       11.6      11.9                   -           -'O tGDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                    4.2      13.5       18.5      14.3
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
laveraae annual orowtltl
Acriculture                                      6.4       4.4        3.5        3.5    40
Industrv                                        10.9      14.1       10.8       9.2    30
Manufacturino                                 11.4      13.4        9.9        8.9
Services                                        12.7       8.6        8.2       7.6     2       
Private consumotion                              9.7       8.6        7.7       6.7
General oovernment consumDtion                   9.0       9.9        8.2       8.4      o
Gross domestic investment                       10.7      11.7        7.6       7.6             93   94    95    96   97    go
Imoorts of aoods and services                   19.2      12.5       12.7        1.5                    Exports          Imports
Gross national oroduct                          10.0      10.0        8.5        7.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the couiitrv fin bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 73 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation%
Domestic prices                                                                    3
(% change)
Consumer prices                                ..      7.3       2.8      -0.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         1.6      5.1       1.2      -1.3    10
Govemment finance                                                                   o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        93   94   95   96   97    9
Currentrevenue                                 ..    21.5       12.0      12.8    -in
Current budget balance                         ..      4.2       0.6      -2.2                   GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.1       -1.5      -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182,792  183,757       200,0oo
Food                                          *    4,781    11,075    10,619
Fuel                                               4,544     6,987     5,181     150,000- .-
Manufactures                                  ..  26,206   158,838   163,157                               EI
Total imports (cit.   43,216   142,370  140,166                                    100,000                      Ii1
Food                                               3,055     6,308    6,463      50,DOO
Fuel and energy                                   2,i539    10,306    6,773          oi I                    L
Capital goods                                 ..21,110    57,930   61,915 
92  93  94  s5  9s  97  95
Exoort Doce index (1995=100)                   ..      75         95       89
Imoort oice index H1995=1001                           75         92       89                  * Exports      Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      99        104      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               8,550   39,120   207,251   207,589     4
Imports of goods and services               8,148   38,880   166,754   165,900
Resource balance                             402      240    40,497   41,689       2 -F
Net income                                    82    -215   -11,097   -13,428
Net current transfers                         -70     224      5,144    4,278    |
92        94 9    6 97  99
Currentaccount balance                       414      249    34,544   32,540    -2
Financing items (net)                       -320    4,534      1,313  -26,114
Changes in net reserves                       -94   -4,783   -35,857    -6,426    .-4
Memo:
Reserves includina aold fUSS millions)              22.500   147.000
Conversion rate (DEC. localYUSS)              1.9      4.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
IUSS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ mililons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   146,697   156,105
IBRD                                               1,427     8,239     9,610                       A: 9.610
IDA                                                1,330     7,830    8,693             G: 29,473         B86
Total debt service                              ,    3,852    18,445    13,009                        _        D:3,946
IBRD                                         ..    208        858       940
IDA                                          ..      12         81       97                      E8
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..    209         228
Official creditors                                  626      4,315     2,282
Private credRtors                            ..   5,462      8,134      916
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    44,236   45,000
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      8,457     1,153               F: 82,521
World Bank program
Commitments                                        1,306     2,425     2,636     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..    702       2,275    2,061      B- IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..      97        377      434      C c - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    605       1,898     1,627
Interest payments                                   124        562      602
Net transfers                                       482      1,335     1,024
Development Economics                                                                                                9/2199
- 74-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
CHINA: T hird Henan Provincial Highway Project
Bank-financed
Remove Highway         Highway Project (completed) 1, 2*                            S                S
Capacity               Beijing-Tiansjin-Tanggu Expressway (completed) 1-6           S               S
Bottlenecks (1)        Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6               S               S
- Institutional          Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6                 S               S
Strengthening/         Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6               S               S
Training (2)           Shandong Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 4, 6           S                S
- Rural Roads and        Jiangsu Provincial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6               S               S
Poverty                Zhejiang Prmvincial Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                 S                S
Alleviation (3)        Guangdong Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6                S                S
- Highway Safety (4)     Henan Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                               S                S
- Operation and          Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 6                           S               S
Maintenance of High-    National Highway: Hebei/Henan (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6          S                S
Grade Highways (5)     Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6                        S                S
Cost Recovery (6)      Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6               S                S
Second Sha;mxi Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6           S               S
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-5, 6             U               S
Second Xiniiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6                    S               S
Second Nat I Hwy: Guangdong/Hunan (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6    S               S
Third Nat'l Hwy (ongoing): Hubei 1, 2, 4, 5, 6               S               S
Tri-Provinci.al Highway: (ongoing) 1, 2, 3, 5, 6             S               S
Anhui Provincial Highway (ongoing): 1, 2, 5, 6               S               S
Fourth National Highway: Hubei/Hunan (planned) 1, 2, 4, 5, 6
Second Fujian Highway (planned): 1, 2, 4, 5, 6
Third Henan Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Guangxi Provincial Highway (planned): 1, 2, 5, 6
Asian Develoument Bank
Shenyang-E.enxi Highway (completed)
Yunnan Expressway (completed)
Hunan Expressway (completed)
Julin Expressway (completed)
Heilongjiang Expressway (ongoing)
Yunan Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei and Liaoning Exoresswav (ongoine)
Chongqing Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Shenyang-Ji nzhou Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei Roads Development (ongoing)
Chengdu-Nanchong Expressway (ongoing)
Changchun-Harbin Expressway (ongoing)
Jiangxi Highway Project (ongoing)
Southem Yunnan Road Development (planned)
Shanxi Expressway (planned)
Chongqing-Guizhou Expressway (planned)
Guangxi Road (planned)
Shanxi and Shaanxi Expressways (planned)
Overseas Economic Cooneration Fund of Janan
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze River
Highway Bridge Construction
Second Chcngqing Yangtze River Bridge Construction
I Oiaihar Neimliane River Highwav Bridee Construction  I_I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 75 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
CHINA: Third Henan Highway Project
A. Background
1.    The Environmental Assessment (EA) of the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE) and its
linking roads was carried out by the Environmental Protection Center of MOC and the Henan Provincial
Environmental Protection Institute, respectively. The draft EA documents were reviewed by the Bank and
discussed with HPCD during the Pre-Appraisal Mission in October 1999. The draft final Environmental
Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Executive Summary (ES) of ZXE
and its linking roads were submitted to the Bank in December 1999, and found satisfactory.
2.    A sectoral environment assessment approach was applied to the Local Roads Improvement in the
Poor Counties (LPIPC) program. Accordingly, an Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) report and an
EAP of this component were prepared by the Henan Provincial Environmental Protection Institute,
submitted to the Bank in December 1999, and found satisfactory. Supplementary IEE/EAP for the road
section included under LPIPC in the appraisal was submitted to the Bank in March 2000, and found
satisfactory.
3.    During the EA work, the local people along the project route have been intensively consulted, and
their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures, as
appropriate.
4.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development projects
in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as well as the Bank's OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment. Major laws and regulation applied to the EA for the Third Henan Provincial
Highway Project are presented below:
a) Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
b) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
c) Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
d) Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
e) Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC; and
f) Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations.
5.    The scope of and the criteria for the EIA are presented below.
a) Noise. The EA covers areas within 260 m from both sides of the alignment. Class I noise
standards (55 dB(A) in daytime and 45 dB(A) at night) are applied to schools and hospitals.
Class IV standards (70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at night) are applied to other areas
such as residential areas.
b) Air pollution. The EA covers areas within 200 m from both sides of the alignment. Class II
standards are applied to the project.
c) Ecological conditions. The EA covers areas within 300 m along the alignment. If there are
any sensitive areas, study areas are extended to cover these areas.
- 76 -



d) Target year for the predictions. In light of the construction schedule of the project,
environmental predictions are made for the years of 2003, 2010 and 2020.
B. Brief Project Description
6.    The Third Henan Highway Project includes the following components for which environmental
assessments are needed: (i) Construction of ZXE (95 km); (ii) Construction or upgrading of 5 linking roads
(about 51 km); and (iii) Improvement of 11 local roads in poor counties (about 400 km).
C. Baseline Environmental Description
7.    Natural Environment. The project area belongs to a transition zone from sub-tropical monsoon
to warm temperate climate, with annual average temperature of around 15 'C and annual average
precipitation of 900 - 1,300 mm. The proposed alignment lies in the southern part of Henan Province
where the terrain is higher in the south. While the alignment passes a vast plain area in Zhumadian, it faces
a rather hilly and mountainous area in Xinyang. The EA ensures that there are no natural habitats and
environmentally protected areas along the project area. No protected fauna and flora are observed along the
project area either.
8.    Socio-Economic Situations. The proposed alignment goes through Zhumadian Prefecture and
Xinyang City with a population of around 15 million in total. While agriculture is still dominant, light and
heavy industries are rapidly growing with rich mineral resources. However, with an industrial and
economic development level lower than the provincial average, the per capita GDP in this area remains
two-thirds of that of the provincial average.
9.    Air and Noise Quality. Ambient air quality monitoring data at 11 sites along the proposed
alignment (4 for ZXE and 7 for linking roads) show that CO and NOx meet Class II standards while TSP
exceeds the standards by 20-70%. Noise levels monitored at 14 noise-sensitive sites along the alignment (7
each for ZXE linking roads) indicate that present acoustic environmental condition is generally good to
meet the noise standards.
10.   Water Quality. Ambient water quality was monitored at three rivers along the proposed
alignment. The results show that water quality is generally good to meet Class III standards except oil
which exceeds its Class III standard in two of three rivers.
11.   Cultural Relics. According to the investigation by the Henan Provincial Cultural Relics
Authority, there are no cultural relics along the proposed alignment.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
12.   Major environmental impacts and their mitigation measures are summarized below. The mitigation
measures identified are reflected in thle project documents, as appropriate.
Design Phase
13.   Alternatives Analysis. During the preparation of the project, two options (east and west routes)
were discussed from an environmental point of view as well. Both routes are considered to be no difference
in terms of environmental impacts while east route is further from the city so that economic benefits is less
compared with west route. For these reasons, west route was recommended as a proposed alignment. In
addition, analysis of "the situation without project" indicated that the increasing traffic volume on existing
road would exceed the capacity; and thus worsen environmental conditions and traffic safety, and hinder
economic development.
- 77-



14.    Social Disruption. In order to minimize problems of community separation due to the
construction of expressway, 156 underpasses and 4 overpasses (average every 590 m) and 19 grade
separations were included in the project design.
15.   Irrigation System. In order to minimize problems of interference on irrigation system resulting
from the project, 68 culverts were included in the project design.
16.    Soil Erosion. Mitigation measures to minimize soil erosion were reflected in the engineering
designs, such as rational utilization of waste soil, proper design and protection of slopes, and construction
of ditches and other drainage structures.
17.    Noise and Air Pollution. The EIA identified that 44 villages and 3 schools would be impacted by
noise from ZXE. A combination of measures such as relocation, installation of noise barriers, insulation
windows and afforestation would be undertaken to mitigate noise problems. Before the operation of the
highway, houses within 50 m from ZXE will be relocated and approximately 600-m noise barriers will be
built at sensitive locations. Air quality forecasts indicated that there would be some increase in the
concentration of CO and NOx, but the increase is predicted to be within the standards. To mitigate noise
from linking roads, a wall will be heightened and extended for one school.
18.    Water Pollution. Sewage treatment facilities would be set up at the service areas and toll stations.
Biological treatment is recommended.
Construction Phase
19.    Air, noise, and water pollution have been identified as potential impacts of the project during the
construction phase.
20.    Air Pollution. Fugitive dust has been identified as major environmental impact during the
construction work. Construction sites will be sprayed with water to minimize fugitive dust. Asphalt and
lime stone mixing plants will be equipped with dust collectors and will be located at least 2 m from
residential areas on the leeward side.
21.    Noise. Operation of heavy machinery and other construction activities will cause adverse impacts
on acoustic enviromnent at the populated project areas, in particular, at environmentally sensitive sites such
as schools and hospitals. Strict regulations of schedule of construction works will be implemented to
minimize such adverse impacts. Construction works will be prohibited near residential areas and other
sensitive sites between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
22.    Soil Erosion and Irrigation System. In order to minimize soil erosion and vegetation loss, trees
and grasses plantation will be carried out, as appropriate. Temporary drainage system will be developed,
where necessary, to minimize soil erosion and adverse impacts on irrigation system.
23.    Water Pollution. Appropriate measure will be undertaken to prevent direct discharges of polluted
water from construction activities into rivers and canals. In case of bridge construction, machinery and
construction boats will be maintained in a proper manner to prevent accidental oil spills. Hazardous
construction materials such as oil will be safely stored. Garbage and wastes from construction activities
including those from construction camps will be handled in an appropriate manner to avoid water pollution
and sanitary problems.
24.    Cultural Relics. Construction works will be stopped in case new cultural relics are discovered as
a result of road construction or excavation activities. The local cultural property authorities will be
informed and a field survey of the site will be undertaken. Necessary mitigation measures will be
implemented, as appropriate.
- 78 -



Operation Phase
25.   Noise and Air Pollution. Noise barriers or other appropriate noise prevention measures will be
taken at locations where noise exceeds the standard, based on the result of monitoring. Construction of
schools/hospitals and other buildings will not be allowed within 220 m and 100 m from the expressway,
respectively.
26.   Vehicle Management. Better vehicle maintenance/management will be enhanced to keep vehicles
in good conditions. Vehicle noise and emission inspection will be strengthened. If a vehicle does not
comply with the noise and/or emission standards, the vehicle will not be allowed to pass until the problem is
rectified. Periodical and random exhaust gas emissions inspection will be undertaken. Public awareness
and education will be promoted to familiarize people with the problem of air pollution and noise from
vehicles and with related regulations.
E. Environmental Monitoring
27.   During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to
verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. An annual monitoring report would be fumished to the
Bank by January 31 of each year starting in 2001 during the construction phase and for each of the first
three years following completion of construction.
Construction Phase
28.   Noise, TSP and asphalt smoke will be regularly measured at major sensitive. Regarding water
quality monitoring, COD, SS and oil will be monitored. Detailed information about monitoring activities
such as frequencies, sites and methods is included in EAP, respectively.
Operation Phase
29.   Monitoring items include noise, air quality (NOx, CO and TSP) and Water quality (COD, SS and
oil) at major sensitive sites. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as frequencies, sites and
methods is included in EAP, respectively.
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
30.   The Environmental Protection Office (EPO) of HPCD will be responsible for the overall
environmental protection, management and monitoring for the project while the Project Office (PO) of
HPCD will be in charge of implementation and supervision of environmental protection measures. EPO
and PO will be assisted by five and two environmental experts, respectively. Meanwhile, six environmental
experts, one each in prefecture or county highway bureau, will be assigned for the environmental
management of linking roads. During construction and operation, environmental monitoring will be
entrusted to the Central Environmental Monitoring Station of Henan Province for ZXE, and to Zhumadian
and Xinyang Environmental Monitoring Stations for linking roads. An environmental training will be
carried out in a timely manner, which comprises (i) overseas study tour/training for environmental
management (12 man-month) and (ii) domestic training for environmental monitoring and management (64
man-month). About 500 thousand RMB will be allocated for environmental training.
- 79 -



G. Environmental Aspects of the LRIJPC Program
31.   In the sectoral IEE and EAP for the LRIPC, the following items are concisely described: (i) A brief
project description; (ii) Overview of environmental conditions of project areas; (iii) Potential impacts and
mitigation measures; and (iv) Environmental management.
32.   A Brief Project Description. The LRIPC includes  11 road segments with a total length of about
400 km. No new road construction works are included in the LRIPC. No land acquisition is envisaged
under the project.
33.   Baseline Conditions and Potential Impacts. All of 11 roads are located in poor counties in
Zhumadian and Xinyang Prefecture. There are no natural protection zones and no cultural property in the
project areas. Since all the LRIPC projects are small in size of construction works, no significant
environmental impacts are envisaged. Potential impacts would be ordinary issues caused by civil works
such as noise and dust pollution during the construction phase. Those impacts are short-term and
temporary.
34.   Environmental Mitigation Measures and Management. All necessary mitigation measures such
as strict control of noisy construction machinery and spraying water are identified in the EAP.
Environmental monitoring will be carried out by the Environmental Monitoring Station of relevant local
governments at sensitive locations such as schools and hospitals nearby roads. If noise level exceeds the
standards in the future, appropriate noise prevention measures will be taken accordingly. HPCD will be
responsible for overall environmental management for this project.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
35.   Public Consultation and Feedback During the EA work, the local people have been intensively
consulted. The following approaches have been adopted for public consultation under this project: (i)
Consultation meetings with local people, council representatives and local governments; and (ii)
Questionnaire analysis of public opinion supplemented by interviews.
36.   Apart from the resettlement-related issues, the public showed concerns about irrigation disruption,
community separation and environmental protection during construction, and requested to take adequate
mitigation measures. These feedback has been reflected in the engineering designs and the EAP.
37.   Information Disclosure. Final EIA, EAP and ES were submitted to the Bank in December 1999.
These environmental documents were made public locally at HPCD. Following receipt of a letter of
agreement on release from HPCD, those documents were sent to the PIC in December 1999.
- 80 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Review of Financial Management System
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
ABBR1EVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
THPHP          Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
HPCD           Henan Provincial Communications Department
HPECB          Henan Provincial Expressway Construction Bureau
HAB            Highway Administration Bureau
FCUO           Foreign Capital Utilization Office
FDHPCD         Financial Division of Henan Provincial Communications
Departrnent
MOF            Ministry of Finance
PFB            Provincial Finance Bureau
Manual         Project Financial Management System Manual
CONTENTS
I.        Background                                                                 2
II.       Organization of Project Financial Management                               2
III.      Loan Disbursement Arraigements                                             3
V.        Internal Controls                                                          3
VI.       Staffing and Training                                                      4
VIII.     Auditing Arrangements                                                      5
IX.       Budgeting                                                                  5
Attachment 1: Project Organization Chart                                   6
Attachment 2: Flowchart of Receipts of Bank Funding                        7
Attachment 3: Flowchart of Bank Withdrawal Applications                    8
Attachment 4: Proposed Action Plan                                         9
Attachment 5: Project Financial Statements Formats
Note: This Annex 13 to the PAD does not include Attachment 5. The full report including all
attachments is in the Project Files.
- 81 -



Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Review of Financial Management System
I.    Background
This report is the result of a financial management review and analysis of the Project as conducted
by Youhua Yu, Senior Disbursement Specialist, EACCF during October 10-13, and further reviewed by
Nancy Chen, Financial Management Specialist, EAPCO, to determine whether the Project has in place an
adequate financial management system as required by the Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed
in accordance with the following:
*   Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(Prepared by Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region,
Decemberl997);
*  Review of Financial Management System as stipulated in Annex II of LACI Implementation
Handbook; and
*  Project Financial Management Manual issued by the Loan Department, February 1999.
The review consequently included procedures as were considered necessary and appropriate to
Project's circumstances, including site visit, discussion and observation. As a result, the task team has
discussed and reviewed with Provincial Finance Bureau, Henan Provincial Communication Department,
and the project participating agencies about plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound
project financial management system, including staffing, training, accounting, intemal control, reporting
requirements, auditing and budgeting.
II.    Organization of Project Financial Management
Henan Provincial Communication Department (HPCD) will assume an overall responsibility of
implementing and monitoring the Project. The Foreign Capital Utilization Office (FCUO), reporting
directly to HPCD, will assist HPCD in project coordination and supervision. The Project implementation
will be undertaken at the provincial level involving three participating agencies as follows:
*  Henan Provincial Expressway Construction Bureau (HPECB) will be responsible for the
proposed Zumadian-Xinyang expressway;
*  Highway Administration Bureau (HAB) will be responsible for the interconnecting road
program, the rural road program in Zhumadian & Xinyang; and
*   FCUO under HPCD will be responsible for the technical assistance, study and training, and
procurement of equipments. It will also review goods and TA payment requests (see
Attachment 1 for Project Organization Chart).
In terms of project administration support, Project Command Posts (Project Management Office)
will be established under HPECB in Zhumadian and Xinyang, respectively. The financial accounting and
reporting aspects of the Project are to be handled by the Financial Division of HPCD (FDHPCD) and
Provincial Finance Bureau (PFB).
HPCD, HPECB and HAB all have substantial previous experience with Bank-financed highway
projects (e.g. Henan Provincial Highway Project, Hebei/Henan National Highway Project and Second
Henan Provincial Highway Project) and will therefore be familiar with the existing disbursement,
procurement, financial reporting and auditing requirements. PBF has accumulated extensive experience
with both the Bank and MOF's requirements in preparation and processing of withdrawal application and
financial management of Bank-financed projects. To date, PBF has managed twenty eight Bank-financed
- 82 -



projects. However, additional training would be needed for financial staff at all levels (see Section VI for
Staffing and Training below).
III.   Loan Disbursement Arrangements
The project will be disbursing based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be
using PMR-based disbursements, in aLccordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of
Finance (MOF).
Special Account will be held in a commercial bank in U.S. dollars, managed and maintained by the Foreign
Debt Management Division of the PFB. The PFB will monitor and reconcile the Special Account, check
and monitor withdrawal applications and to verify payment requests meet Bank requirements. Funds will
flow from the Bank, PBF/FDHPCD r.o HPECB/HAB and suppliers/contractors through loan and
on-lending arrangements. Applications for replenishment would be prepared by PBF, in accordance with
the Bank procedures, and submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or when the amount is drawn down to
50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Corresponding RMB bank account will be held and
managed by the FDHPCD, who will review and prepare payment requests (see Attachment 2 for Flowchart
of Receipts of Bank Funds).
The FDHPCD will collect supporting documents, monitor contract payments and prepare payment
requests prior to submitting to PBF, who will further verify, approve and process before submitting to the
Bank for disbursements.
Payments will be made initially from the funds of the participating agencies, who will request
reimbursement from FDHPCD/PBF. Original invoice and backup documentation will be retained at point
of initiation. In addition, necessary copies and each withdrawal application will be maintained at FDHPCD
and PBF, respectively. The details regarding the administration, processing and approvals of the on-lending
arrangements, documentation flow will need to be defined and described in the Manual. Disbursement
application processing is estimated to take two to three days of processing time at each level. This will need
to be addressed in the Manual (see Attachment 3 for Flowchart of Withdrawal Applications).
IV.   Financial and Accounting System
The Construction Accounting Standards issued by Construction Department, MOF for
construction oriented projects dictates the format of financial statements, chart of accounts and related
instructions which would therefore affect project accounting and reporting requirements. Accrual
accounting and double entry basis w:ill be adopted.
V.    Internal Controls
PBF issued several regulations on accounting and disbursements for Bank financed projects.
However, it is highly recommended that a well designed internal control system be in place before
commencement of the Project. It was agreed that a financial management manual (the Manual) will be
jointly developed by the PFB and HPCD and will be provided for Bank review by December 1999. The
objective of the Manual is to document the operational procedures and guidelines for project financial
management, encompassing all levels of project management. The scope of the Manual will encompass the
following:
* project financial management structure and staffing (e.g. organization chart and job
descriptions);
* identification of the accounting standards to be used by the Project and all participating
entities (e.g. tailored Project Chart of Accounts and sample accounting treatments);
- 83 -



*  project reporting formats and procedures for cash management, asset management,
procurement, disbursement, counterpart fund management; and
*   budgeting and auditing.
In accordance with BPI0.02, paragraph 6, the task team reviewed the status of the Borrower's and
project implementing agencies' compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects.
During the supervision mission in October 1999, the following major issues under ongoing projects were
discussed:
*  No separate project books at the city and county Highway Administration Bureau (HAB);
*   Different accounting standards were used by the local HABs;
* Delays in processing reimbursement requests due to missing supporting documents;
*   Qualifications of sub-contractors were not reviewed before the contracts were awarded;
*  Transfer of counterpart funds to third parties and personal borrowings.
The appraisal mission in January 2000 confirmed (i) that the specific issues under the ongoing
projects had been resolved, and (ii) that genuine progress had been made to incorporate sufficient controls
to prevent similar occurrences. The Action Plan in Attachment 4 provides details.
Furthermore, the Manual was reviewed to ensure that sufficient control procedures are built into
the system for major concems, in particular, whether a separate project account has been established for
the project, and the system has the features of authorization, verification and reconciliation that can
provide reasonable control over project funds from being diverted to non project activities and adequate
filing system to prevent missing documents. Henan Provincial Communication Department (HPCD) agreed
to develop more detailed procedures in post review NCB contract and personal advance and
reimbursement, and will ensure Construction Accounting Standards are applied at all project level. These
procedures are detailed in the Manual and will serve as a guide for all parties involved.
VI.   Staffing and Training
FDHPCD, fully staffed at this time, is comprised of six staff members: Division Chief, Deputy
Division Chief, two accountants and two cashiers. Mr. Song Chunlei, the Deputy Division Chief, was
graduated from Xian Communications University majoring in Finance and Accounting and has been a
certified Senior CPA for more than eight years. He has experience in three Bank financed highway projects.
The accountants are all Chinese CPAs and have had more than eight years working experiences. At
present, the division is fully occupied with the current workload and it is therefore recommended that an
assessment of staffing needs be performed during the supervision missions. At HPECB and HAB level,
though the staffing has not been identified, the task team has been advised that each participating agency
will be staffed with qualified accountant and cashier. The details regarding the staffing arrangements will
need to be addressed in the Manual. It was agreed that CVs of the proposed accountants and cashiers will
be provided for Bank review by April 2000 (see Attachment 4 for detailed Action Plan).
The Task team recommended that a well designed and focused training be provided by FDHPCD
for staff new to Bank projects to ensure staff quality commensurate with job responsibilities. It is
suggested that training, which should be conducted at or near the Project Launch Workshop jointly by
FDBPCD and PFB, should include all relevant staff and include such features as:
*   Bank procedures and the Project financial management requirements on the withdrawal of
Bank funds;
*   overview of the project financial statement formats and accounting software;
*   review of Project Financial Management Systems Manual; and
*  project audit requirements.
- 84-



VII.  Project Reporting Requirements
The format and content of thie following project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and agreed with all
parties concerned. The Project financial statements (see Attachment 5) will be submitted to the Bank on a
semi-annual basis and include the following four statements:
* Balance Sheet;
* Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component;
* Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
* Statement of Special Account
Each of the participating agencies will manage, monitor and maintain their respective financial
reports. Project reports will be aggregated and submitted by FDHPCD on a semi-annual basis to the Bank
before August 20 and February 20 of each year.
Currently, "User Friend" has been used by HPCD and HPECB for accounting and financial
reporting; however, this software could not generate the required project financial statements. It is
recommended that the accounting software jointly developed by the World Bank Resident Mission in China
and the MOF be used for this Project.
VIII. Auditing Arrangements
The Bank requires the Project financial statements audited in accordance with standards acceptable
to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will be audited in accordance
with Governmental Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The Henan
Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified as the auditors for the Project. The audit including opinions on
financial statements, Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be scheduled for submission to
the Bank within 6 months after the end of the calendar year.
IX.   Budgeting
Project budget will be prepared annually by FDHPCD for submission to the Ministry of
Transportation and Provincial Planning Commission, respectively, for approval. Based on the approved
budget, both the Ministry of Transportation and the PFB will deposit its respective share of the counterpart
funds to the account managed by FDHPCD, who will be responsible for the submission of the Project
budget for TTL review and approval by December 1 of each year. Details of the budget preparation and
approval are expected to be detailed in the Manual and serve as a guide for all parties involved.
X.    Conclusion
Pending addressing the issues outlined in the action plan on attachment 5, the task team has
determined that the Project will satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements as required by
OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project will have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the proposed project management office and as
required by the Bank.
- 85 -



Attachment 1
CHINA
Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
(CN-PE-58844)
Project Organization Chart
October, 1999
Provincial Finance   1
Bureau(l)        l
Henan Provincial
Communication
Department (2)
Foreign Capital
+    Utilization Office (3)
Henan Provincial                                          Highway
Expressway                                           Administration
Construction Bureau                                        Bureau (5)
(t
City Highway
Administration
Bureaus (6)
Notes: 1) Provincial Finance Bureau will manage SA;
2) HPCD will be responsible for accounting, reporting and financial management of the Project;
3) FCUO will coordinate and supervise the Project, and be responsible for the technical
assistance, study and training, and procurement of equipments;
4) HPECB will be responsible for the proposed Zumadian-Xinyang expressway.
5) HAB will be responsible for the interconnecting road program and the rural road program.
6) Zhumadian HAB and Xinyang HAB will be responsible for the rural road program within their
respective geographic areas.
- 86 -



Attachment 2
CHINA
Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
(CN-PE-58844)
Flowchart of Receipts of Bank Funding
October, 1999
1. Provincial Bureau of Finance managed Special Account receives funds from World Bank
2  Funds red by FDPHCI) based on reimbursement payment requests
3  Funds pa from FDPHCD to HPECB/HAB based on payment requests/annual budget
:4  Baendcry vencontractors receive funds
- 87 -



Attachment 3
CHINA
Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
Flowchart of Bank Withdrawal Applications
Step/Action Taken
1.  Beneficiaries prepare payment request together with supporting documents and then send to
HPECB/HAB/FCUO
| 2*.  PR reviewed and cleared by the Accountants/Project Officer and signed by Chief of Loan
Division of FCUO and then send to FDHPCD
3.  PR reviewed and cleared by the Accountant of FDHPCD
4.   PR reviewed and signed by the Chief of FDHPCD
5.  PR approved and signed by the Director of HPCD
6.  The Cashier of FDHPCD pocesses payment from counterpart funds
7.  The accountant prepares reimbursement payment request (RPR) supported by PR and other
supporting documents and then send to PBF.
8.  The Project Officer of PFB reviews and clears RPR
9.  RPR reviewed and approved by the Chief of PFB
10.  Project Officer of PFB processes payment from SA and informs FDHPCD
11.  Project Officer of PBF prepares withdrawal applications regularly, perferably monthly
12.  Withdrawal applications reviewed and signed by Chief of PFB
13  Project Officer sends the signed withdrawal applications to the World Bank
Note: * i) Payment Request (PR) for civil works are sent directly to FDPHCD for review and
approval;
ii) PR relating to TA and procurement of goods are reviewed by HPECB/HAB and then sent
to Project Officer of Loan Division of FCUO for review;
iii) PR relating to TA for Research Institute, School of Communication, and Quality &
Inspection Station are reviewed by Project Officer/Loan Division/FCUO.
- 88 -



Attachment 4
CHINA
Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
(CN-PE-58844)
Proposed Action Plan
Description                         Responsibility   Target Date
A. Project Financial Managemeni: Systems Manual
1. Finalized Manual sent for Bank review                        HPCD/PBF        August, 2000
2. The Manual distributed to all relevant staff                  HPCD/PBF   September. 2000*
B. Staffing
1. CVs of accountants responsible for the project at the participating  HPCD    March, 2000
agencies provided to the Bank for review.
1. CVs of accountants at the county level under HAB provided to the  HPCD     SeDtember. 2000*
Bank for review.
2. Review overall staffing needs by the Bank                     TTL/RMC         Supervision
C. Training
1. Project Launch workshop to all related staff on:           HPCD/PBF/RMC SeDtember. 2000
a. Bank and the Project financial management requirements
including withdrawal of Bank finds
b. Project financial statements formats
c. Project Financial Management Systems Manual
d. Project audit requirements
2. Project Accounting Software
D. Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearances for opening of SA                     PFB        By effectiveness
2. Authorized signatures sent to MOF and Bank                    PFB/MOF       By effectiveness
3  First withdrawal application sent to the Bank for initial deposit  PBF     After effectiveness
* Expected date for Proiect Launch Worksh
- 89 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Road Management Improvement
CHINA: Third Henan Provincial Highway Project
1.     Road Network Classification and Condition: The situation of the road network in Henan in
terms of classification and condition can be described as follows:
a) Road classification: Roads are classified by administration into three levels (i.e. National,
Provincial and local roads), and by function into five levels (freeways/expressways, class I, II, Ill, IV and
unclassified). A subset of the network is composed of arterial roads comprising the most trafficked routes
and on which HIPCD are focusing their efforts. The situation in the end of 1998 is shown in Table 1 below.
Regarding bridges, there are at present 8262 bridges in Henan Province, among which, 1185 bridges are on
national highways, 2037 and 5040 bridges are on provincial and local highways, respectively. Total length
of all the bridges is 300,000 meters.
Table 1: Road Classification in Henan Province
Total length  Express-way   Class I   Class II   Class III   Class IV    Unclassified
(km)
National Roads     3942         465        78       2330      880       120         69
Provincial Roads   8002                             3986      2992       859        165
Local Roads      4101                              640      2259       1174        28
Subtotal Arterial  16045                             6956      6131      2153        262
Other Local Roads  41127                             887       5829     32057        2354
Total         57172         465        78       7843     11960     34210        2616
FPCD informed the Bank that a review of the road functional classification in Henan province will
not take place until MOC initiates such a review at the national level. It was well understood that once an
updated classification has been conducted, it could lead to a more efficient road network, enabling better
allocation of tight funds for maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction to reach the policy objectives
in the province.
b) Road Condition: Road condition is ranked using MOC's four levels of rating system, i.e.,
excellent, good, medium and poor. Each of the road condition level is determined on the basis of five
attributes: i) pavement condition ranging from 0 to 50; ii) roadbed and subgrade condition ranging from 0
to 20; iii) bridge and culvert condition scoring from 0 to 10; iv) safety facilities along the road scoring from
0 to 10; and v) landscape ranking from 0 to 10. The higher score, the better road condition. The condition
Excellent means total score is equal and larger than 90, Good is 75 and above, Medium is 60 and above,
Poor means total score is less than 60. Based on such a ranking system, a summary of road condition on
the arterial roads in Henan is shown in Table 2.
- 90 -



Table 2: Condition of Arterial Roads in Henan Province
Arterial.roads   Excellent        Good         Medium        Poor
length (kmn)
National Roads     3942            2030            1850           62
Provincial Roads    8002             4230           1690          2081
Local Roads      4101            307            2530           1157        107
Total      16045            6567           6070          3301         107
Currently, data collection and other procedures are mostly manual and, although thorough, they lack some
key factors that are useful for decisiDn-making on maintenance and upgrading needs. There is no systematic
use of the road data bank or of the Chinese Pavement Management System (CPMS) for operational
purposes. The Henan Highway Administration Bureau (HAB) has entrusted the Quality Control and
Monitoring Center (QCMC) assisted by the Design Institute, with the tasks of improving data collection
and road management. QCMC owns five units of automatic road survey equipment or devices, which are
sufficient to collect data such as roughness, deflection, skid resistance, geometric data and pavement
thickness. This road survey equipment has been used only for project-level assessment so far, but is well
suited and in good condition for use on network-wide surveys.
2.     Maintenance Activities and Funding: Table 3 below provides some statistics on maintenance
activities in the period 1996/98 and funding in the period 1999/2001. It illustrates the main shortcomings
which have impeded a satisfactory outcome in this area so far: (i) shortage of funds, and (ii) lack of rational
maintenance strategy.
Table 3: Maintenance Activities and Funding 1996/2001
Network     Maintenance     Heavy repair    Medium repair         Routine
length       budget                                           maintenance
km         RMB m        km    RMB m       km     RMB m      km     RMB m
1996       50907         641.9       174     87.3     703      81.3    44500    473.3
1997       55015         935.3      443    425.1    1249    183.9   30400    326.3
1998       57172         1020.6      555    396.6    1577    179.5   41350    444.5
1999 (est.)                1120.3              206.4             456.0             457.9
2000                     1123.3             200.2              442.4             480.8
2001                     1160.2             204.2              451.2             504.8
i)  As a reaction to the chronic shortage of funds for maintenance, HPCD launched a carnpaign of
"Road Maintenance Year" for two consecutive years, 1997 and 1998. As shown in the table,
the maintenance budgel: increased dramatically from the 1996 level, and is planned to be
sustained at this heightened level in the next few years. However, even in these "fat" years,
routine maintenance covered only about 80% of the network, and periodic (heavy and medium)
maintenance was carried out on less than 5% of the network.
- 91 -



ii) HPCD's retrenchment policy was to concentrate on the arterial network, but the optimality of
this policy is not underlaid by a reliable assessment of needs or analysis of the impact of
different budget levels on network condition, or investigations of funding/treatment options and
trade-offs.
HPCD's current strategy is based on (i) more efficiency from budgeted resources through contracting out,
and (ii) strengthening road management.
3.    Improving maintenance operations: Currently routine maintenance and most of medium repair
are carried out by force account; all of major repair is done by contract. HPCD intends to:
a) increase the efficiency of routine operations, mostly through a better mix of labor and
equipment, and having force account focus more on output and less on input; and
b) within the timeframe of the project, increase the percentage of medium repair contracting out
from the current situation of 30%, to 100% at the end of the project.
4.    Strengthening Road Management: Agreement was reached on the following scope for this
sub-component:
Purpose: to provide HIPCD with a modem tool for managing the road assets and making optimal
use of funds in the road sector. Specifically the two following objectives were confirmed - i) To
institutionalize computer-based support for network management; and ii) To improve maintenance
strategies and programs to make the most effective use of budget allocations.
Outputs: The task would - i) Establish a regular survey of the 12,000 km national and provincial
network-- measuring key properties at different rates and frequencies according to the class of road, so that
the cost is affordable and can be sustained after completion of the project; ii) Upgrade the present database
and computer systems - to produce good executive information, extend and adapt the application of
pavement management (CPMS) to all the N/P network, install a computer network, and train staff in road
management and use of the system; and iii) Prepare the 2003 annual program and new 5-year plans using
the new system.
Implementation: A tentative plan is as follows: (i) Automated baseline survey (roughness,
distress, deflection, friction) of the full length of National and Provincial network by February-March
2000; (ii) CPMS analysis of network for 2001 program and 2001-2005 10th FYP (iii) Comparison of
CPMS and actual maintenance programs; (iv) Evaluation and improvement of survey and analysis
methods; (v) Full automated survey repeat in early 2002; (vi) New CPMS analysis for 2003 and 2003-05
programs; (vii) Full survey repeat in early 2004; (viii) Evaluation of deterioration rates, and comparison
of predicted needs and actual programs for the 5-year period 2000-04.
Survey strategy: Data collection primarily needs inventory, traffic, geometric and pavement
condition survey. Depending on funds available, altemative methods may be used to reduce survey costs.
Data must be relevant, reliable, cost effective to collect and maintain. Different coverage rates and
frequencies will be applied as follows:
- 92 -



Table 4: Coverage and Frequcncy of Data Collection for Henan Pavement Management System
Express-                         National Highways                          Provincial Highways
Element       way          Class I       Class II      Class III      Class II      Class III     Class IV
C      F      C      F      C      F      C       F      C      F      C       F      C      F
Roughness   100    2      100     2      100     2      10     2      100     2     10      2      5       2
Strength    50      3     100     3      20      3      10     3      20      3      10     3      5       3
Distress    100    2      100     2      100     2      10     2      100     2      10     2      100     2
Friction    spots    1    spots    I    Spots    I    Spots    I    Spots    I    Spots    I    Spots
Geometry    100     5     100  _5        30      5     100     5      30      5     100     5      100     5
C    coverage in %, and F    frequency in year
5.      Inputs and Costs: The task;s would be implemented by HAB and QCMC, comprising over 800
p-months local inputs, and 2 p-months of foreign specialist input. The costs would be about $640,000
local and foreign services, $113,000 equipment, and $42000 training over 3 years. The loan portion would
be up to $300,000 covering the equipment, training ad part of the services. Table 5 below gives a
breakdown of road management activities and estimated costs.
Table 5: Road Condition Surveys, Database Management and Estimated Costs
SERVICES                   OTHER           TOTAL
Person-months           Cost           (US$)
Local   Foreign    Local    Foreign       K         Rmb        US$
I           Rmb K      US$ K                   K         K
Road Management            800        2        2400       40        300        2400       340
Road survey              200                 600                  300
System enhancement       400        2        1200       40
Program preparation.     200                 600
Overseas Training           4                                        42                   42
Computers & Devices                                                  113                  113
Road management                                                    113
Condition survey
Total                                                                 2400       493
6.      Needs for Institutional Strengthening and Training: Computers, mapping and printing facilities
are needed for HAB to strengthen its road management working groups at different locations. Also, 4 or 5
person-months of overseas training wvill be arranged for HAB staff who are assigned or involved in
operation of Henan road management systems.
- 93 -



7.     Proposed Performance Indicators for Road Management In addition to the percentage of
maintenance works contracted out, two other performance indicators of the effectiveness of road
management have been identified and will be used under the project, as follows:
i) Responsiveness of Maintenance Programr
= % of fair and poor condition road length that receives major or medium maintenance in
the observed year.
ii) Effectiveness of Major Maintenance:
Cost Effectiveness of a subproject (CE) is related to the roughness improvement
experienced by all road users obtained per unit maintenance expenditure, as per fornula
proposed below:
Maintenance Cost Effectiveness (CE) Performance Indicator:
CE = F * MTE * (Rbefore - Rafter) /C(Cmant /Lsbprqject)
where:
F = factor (tentatively 50);
MTE = annual average daily Medium Goods Vehicles in two directions (vehlday);
Rhefore = roughness before maintenance (IRI);
Rafter = roughness after maintenance (IRI);
Clminrt = cost of maintenance subproject (RMB),)
L.suzbproject = length of maintenance subproject (k7n).
- 94 -



IBRD 30686
70                            ao                            90'                         10^                         110                           120'                          130'
)0'                                                 RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                                                  ./                                                00'
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                            ,   - 
If      SR- \                              ~                                 -  /                {                         *HEILONGJIANG
/ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  }2  r'.                                                                                                                 ( ,  
UZBEKISTAN                                 '                                                                                                                   - M                r , G  OHAR
t ->    A, /  \,      e         Kuyfu)       ;U4O D    ,-1                          M O         GO        I                                 !' *                           "    -"NCH N; 4 '*
-- '- '   >   j   --N URUMOI                                                                  *-_-C                                               ,-
-'   '>  KYRGYZ                     r                                                                                                                      GO '.-*-   JItIN
,- '    EPUBLIC                            _                       T                                                                                        i,
~~~~&  ~~~~~~~                                                                                                                  -'  'V                 NTM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G,.~~~0   
'  -'                                                     LIA         G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~DEM.  40'
'\)                                                                                                                                                       -N                       - X' I N J I A N G  \  HOHHO1    ,.Xr   tJI   NDPEOPLE'S
|~~~~~~~~~8                                                                                  (t-? s.a__-}/rrA8NG   9 
weJtdauDnDA800a,ls  E,wrdJrinc !, . _ ., + /;;NCHUAN. t SHI;8SUANg vNI{N Mano KOREA,
REP. OF
thapml:Tte MnfnnsA   '    ~o~'' ~   ~ *-'~'                      _      \ /          Z      '   <S         l9S-H^AN-XiN s-t;;G-'YINCFIUAN(  EBE
or a 1 enJ<.rs  t or                                           , - ~~~~~~~~~~~~ e _  ANZWbLi         I 1m ~~~~~~~Ji FijANG      ,-/
TINGHAI                                             J            TA   N               JNA_                                   KOREA/
1.    LA A~~~~~,QOLA~~~  ~~.GA/
_(5                  >       ,<       (, t=)      \      $  5K X 'A   9  tTHNT^^{ \   >              j )  2,',NttENAJ    SUN
I NA9AG ,,~
X I Z A iN G  5ICHUANCNmb
Ii                                                           I -       H'EI '-  S-ANGHA                                   30' 
30>42      SICHUAN                                                              N WTTANL   HAN O.
CHINA
THIRD HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                           1                      GXI HOU
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM
MAJCR H GHWAYS                                 SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                      " _   i                   TAIWAN
- COMPLETED                                   P ROVINCECAPITAIS                  Y YUNNA N                     G   L  N G x I                   GGU  DONG      Z
UNDER CONSTRUCTION                     (F)   NAIIONAL CAFITAL .66ANGZHCU'
PLANNED BEFORE 2005           -*             PROVINCE BOUNDAR FS                                                              G -
PLANNED AFTER 2005           -*           -   NTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES                                  ETNAM                                                             20'
:N-                                             F niaD'O                    0      100   200   300   400   500 MILES
', *P DEM LAO PEOPLES * /.                     KOU                   6       200     400      600      800 KILOMETERS
THAILAND {               \.   t              IZ   t!  HAINAN                                          PHILIPPINES
___________________100_________________________________________j__                   _                      '.,   '         '                                          ! 0                  ,20-         :
MAPA 200)






IBRD 30687
II              ~~~         ~          ~~~112  113           114~        T 31,c1i.-,:q II' 3
h,                                                                                                     >                                                                                                 CHINA
Oo>nylheidlpflllbw b-,4,'z                                                                                                                                                           THIRD  HENAN  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
/3              j~ ng0  *.                                                                      36- 19  4    } -2 , -+HENAN HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
36'                                                                                   t                                                                                         ., Anag>   1)    36-
Hebi
PROJECT ROAD: ZHLMADIAN XINYANG EXPRESSWAY
SHANXI,, jtVt  B __geliu H     Yu  ANK F        *                                                                                                                              PROVINANCED EXPRESSWAY (Completd)
NO    RANK FINANCED ESPRESSWAY (Under C-ot-otrer)
/                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTED WITH GOVERNMENT PUNDS
.M.  EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS
@000 EXPRESSWAY PLANNED FOR CONSTRUCTION
32    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       IT               CUA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDONGI/   35        ~         WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDS
HUBmEI                                                                                                                                              - NATIONAL ROADSSxinyon9  =  .  r-NIO
o3c  3ls                Luoy c     rn  94-         E        U                                            -                         J\f tANGSL                        RAILROADS ROAS
Ling_b_N                                                                                                                                                                          AIRPORTS
0i                                                            25    50750 SELECtrED TOWNS
-         @1  ~~~~PREFECTURE CAPITALS
KILOMETERS )      ? \ 7 E PROVINCE CAPITAL
LushsngSa    -s -13^                         114 ToWuh         "       115           tf,       1163Yu_Xi(                                        PROVINCE EOUNDARIES
34-       Lush'                                                           h                                                                                        34,Luachun 
-           ushan   o~~~~~~an
3.-'                                                                                                                                             ANHU
xion                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN 
Neixia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RnnNFEDERATION 
MONGOLIA
Fr Do. 1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   JAEAN
IBRD 30688~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *MO                                               Ep oF
t.'Xinyan~*                         unc  nj                                                     -      ~        J 7Ij~  ~
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                         -.-  Jr~ 
31'        I1112                                                  1FER,[1 1 6                                                                                                                     P                              PHILIPPINES
T.XeXkr \-          I                                                                                                                                                                       Nu 31XE-






BRtD 30688
RUSSIAN
CHINA                                                                                                    -         ,        FEDERATION         'i
THIRD HENAN HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                    ' 
ZHUMADIAN - XINYANG EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                              MONGOLIA
r ,; w  - lj,,p  JAPA,
PROPOSED ZHUMADIAN -XINYANG EXPRESSWAY (ZXE)                                         EXISTING HIGHWAY AND LOCAL ROAD                                                                     y,S,                  1    7Rv'
PLANNED EXTENSION OF ZXE TO HUBEI BORDER                                             RAILWAY                                                                                                                 '
LNKNG ROAD IMPROVEMENTS                                                       - - - PLANNED RAILWAY EXTENSION
CA   NTERCHANGES                                                                          RVER OR STREAM
C,  SERVICE AREAS                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARY                                                             I N .  .                                       I        PACiFiC
-, "  P,\.tiC( i&4NN                                   y
HENAN                 PROVINCE                                                                                                    e G,  '-,  G,, vtq   t,            Lings                 pe e
/~~~~~~~~                  d   P    b   t~~                       \E                  '-oR  <C otitt                P  J P I S
\\        Sorligitibict/lg6  >\yt                                                                      8 ~~~~~~~PROVINCE
P,I,uisi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIilcto
.  ,zr''''     ,   .....................                                                   ng 
1  = l S    ,q               15
Quesh-n   -~                     ceRservoncy ------
ona H                                                                                             KILOMETERSUI3E
Quese                                                        b!ccouq
MAY 20000



