Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4548 CHA
Project Agreement
(Third Henan Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HENAN PROVINCE
Dated February 5, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4548 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  February 5, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HENAN PROVINCE (Henan).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Henan 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Henan, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set  forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Henan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Henan shall otherwise agree, Henan shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Henan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project. 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Henan shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Henan, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Henan on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Henan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Henan shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Henan of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Henan shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Henan responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  3
(b)
Henan shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Henan 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Henan thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  4
For Henan:
People’s Government of Henan Province
No. 10 Weierlu
Zhengzhou, Henan
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile
(86-0371) 744 98 62
(86-0371) 572 35 20
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Henan may be 
taken or executed by the Governor or a Vice Governor of Henan or such other person or 
persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Henan shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
HENAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
Page  5
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A.1 of the Project, except for works for the 
construction of the service area and administration and maintenance facilities, shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for the supply and installation of electronic, electrical 
and mechanical equipment under Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors (other than goods manufactured in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower and works carried out by contractors from either said regions).
(e)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(f)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost   
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works for the construction of the service area and administrative and 
maintenance facilities under Part A.1 (a), and works under Parts A.2 and B of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $64,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $1,200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,400,000 
Page  6
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International Shopping
Goods for road maintenance, laboratories, research and environment protection 
purposes, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Contracts for the supply of power for the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway, 
including works associated therewith, costing $2,000,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)  The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; (ii) the first three contracts for works under 
Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent, subject to 
sub-paragraph (b) below; and (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $ 250,000 or more. 
(b)  With respect to (A) any of the first three contracts for works under Part B 
of the Project  estimated to cost less than $1,200,000 and to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C (2) above; and (B) the 
contracts for the supply of power for the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under sub-paragraph (b)(A) 
above, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract under sub-paragraphs (b)(A) 
and (B) above, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  7
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project and for the provision of training, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks under Parts C.2 (a) and C.3 of the Project that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  8
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Environmental Protection.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
Henan shall:
(a) 
carry out the EAPs and the RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) above to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
In respect of Part B of the Project, for any LRIPC Sub-project which requires 
acquisition of land, temporarily or permanently, Henan shall, prior to commencing work 
on such Sub-project: (a) prepare a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, 
in accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy 
Framework; and (b) carry out such plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
In respect of Part B of the Project, for any LRIPC Sub-project which requires a 
re-alignment of a rural road or road segment, Henan shall: (a) prior to commencing 
work on such Sub-project, prepare a supplementary environmental action plan consistent 
with the sectoral environmental action plan dated November 1999 in respect of Part B 
of the Project, and satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) carry out such supplementary 
environmental action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Henan shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the EAPs, the RAPs and, in respect of the LRIPC Sub-projects, the 
resettlement action plans and the supplementary environmental action plans, if any; 
and
(b)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) an annual environmental monitoring report, by March 31 of each year 
starting in 2001 through the construction period of the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway 
and during the first three years following completion of construction of said 
Expressway; (ii) during the period of implementation of the Project, by March 31 and 
September 30 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2001, an internal monitoring report 
prepared by the appropriate agencies of Henan on the implementation and impact of 
resettlement activities during the preceding six-months period; and (iii) by June 30 
and December 31 of each year, commencing on June 30, 2001, an external monitoring 
report prepared by an independent entity acceptable to the Bank on the implementation 
Page  9
and impact of resettlement activities during the same six-months period.
B.
Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway
1.
In respect of Part A of the Project, Henan shall provide to the Bank a monthly 
report on the progress of the civil works on the Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway.
2.
Henan shall, by March 31, 2003, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comment, an analysis and recommendations on the structure of toll rates on the 
Zhumadian-Xinyang Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on 
toll-rate structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience 
with toll rates on major roads in China.
C.
Local Road Improvement
1.
Henan shall select each LRIPC Sub-project on the basis of technical and 
socio-economic criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Prior to commencing works on any LRIPC Sub-project, Henan shall prepare, using 
indicators acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its prior approval: (i) 
an economic and social benefits analysis; (ii) a technical analysis, including 
alternative engineering designs, proposed work plans and estimated costs; (iii) if 
necessary pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A (3) of this Schedule, a 
supplementary environmental action plan; and (iv) if necessary pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph A (2) of this Schedule, a resettlement action plan in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework.
3.
Henan shall provide basic all-weather road accessibility to ninety-eight 
villages in eight poor counties of the prefectures of Zhumadian and Xinyang, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, by December 31, 2000.
D.
Institutional Development 
1.
Henan shall maintain its inter-agency Leading Group for Traffic Safety and the 
Traffic Safety Secretariat through out the period of implementation of the Project. 
2.
Henan shall: (a) carry out the training under Part C.1 of the Project in 
accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank;  and to that end (b) by December 31, 
2000, and thereafter by October 1 of each year, furnish to the Bank for its prior 
approval a rolling two-year training program.
3.
Henan shall: (i) by December 31, 2003 complete a study on long-term performance 
of asphalt pavement, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish 
said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, implement 
the recommendations of said study taking into consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
4.
Henan shall: (i) by June 30, 2001 complete a study on a provincial conceptual 
framework for traffic engineering systems, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank; (ii) furnish said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and (iii) 
thereafter, implement the recommendations of said study taking into consideration the 
Bank’s views thereon.
5.
Henan shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2001 through 2005, furnish 
to the Bank a report on annual highway expenditures for the preceding calendar year, 
said report to indicate: (i) the length of each class of highways according to their 
condition as of December 31 of such preceding calendar year; (ii) the completed 
physical works and actual expenditures during such year with respect to new 
construction, upgrading or improvement, rehabilitation, periodic and routine 
maintenance against the planned physical targets and budgeted funds; and (iii) the 
Page  10
targets for the current calendar year  in respect of physical works and expenditures. 
6.
Henan shall:
(a)
by December 15, 2000 prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, an institutional development and reform plan for its highway sector for the 
following five years, such plan to cover the areas of, inter alia, road safety, 
organizational development and strengthening, training needs, equipment needs, 
management systems development and trade facilitation; and 
(b)
on the basis of said plan, (i) by December 31, 2000 and thereafter by 
October 1 of each year, prepare and provide to the Bank for its review and comments, 
an annual program of implementation; and (ii) carry out such annual program of 
implementation taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon. 
E.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Henan shall
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
2.
Henan shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports, not later than February 28, May 31, 
August 31 and November 30 in each calendar year, commencing on May 31, 2001, said 
reports to:
(a)
summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
quarter (or, in the case of the first such report furnished in each calendar year, 
during the preceding calendar year);
(b)
set forth physical and financial progress in the implementation of the 
Project, both cumulatively, and in respect the period under review; and
(c)
set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during such 
following calendar year.
3.
After furnishing each such report, Henan shall review the same with the Borrower 
and the Bank, and, thereafter, promptly take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
