                            Document of
                          The World Bank




                                             Report No:ICR0000132




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-45480)




                               ON A

                               LOAN

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$123.1 MILLION

                                 TO

                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                FOR

        THIRD HENAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




                            June 26, 2007




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate December 31, 2006)

            Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan
          RMB Yuan 1.00 = US$0.28
                US$1.00 = RMB Yuan 7.809


                  FISCAL YEAR


      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CPMS        China Pavement Management System
E&M         Electrical and Mechanical
 EAP        Environmental Action Plan
 EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
 EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV        Economic Net Present Value
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return
FNPV        Financial Net Present Value
GOVIA       Gross Output Value of Industry and Agriculture
 HAB        Henan Highway Administration Bureau
HPCD        Henan Provincial Communications Department
  ICR       Implementation Completion Report
LRIPC       Local Road Improvement in the Poor Counties
 M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NTHS        National Trunk Highway System
 PAD        Project Appraisal Document
  PAP       Project Affected Person
 PCD        Provincial Communication Department
 PDO        Project Development Objectives
 QEA        Quality at Entry
 QSA        Quality of Supervision
 RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
SHRP        Strategic Highway Research Program
 ZXE        Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway

         Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
       Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCH
        Sector Manager: Junhui Wu, EASTE
    Project Team Leader: Alain Dube, EASTE

                                          CHINA
                       Third Henan Provincial Highway Project




                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..................................1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.................................6
   3. Assessment of Outcomes..................................................................10
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................17
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................18
   6. Lessons Learned...........................................................................19
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......21
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................22
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................23
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................27
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.........34
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................36
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.....................................37
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...............38
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinancers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................45
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................46
   MAPS

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Third Henan Provincial
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                    Highway Project
Project ID:             P058844               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45480
ICR Date:               06/28/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    THE PEOPLE'S
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 123.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Henan Provincial Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/02/1999    Effectiveness:       03/30/2001         03/30/2001
Appraisal:             01/08/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/16/2000    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             12/31/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                 98                  98
Sub-national government administration                              2                   2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                 Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                     Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Alain M. Dube                       Jacques M. Tollie
ICR Team Leader:           Alain M. Dube
ICR Primary Author:        Alain M. Dube



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims at providing a more efficient and effective transport infrastructure in
support of social and economic development in Henan Province. To meet the above
development objectives, the project targeted the following outcomes:

  · traffic congestion reduced and mobility enhanced in the Zumadian-Xinyang corridor,
a key section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS);

  · accessibility to the poor areas in the province improved; and



                                                 ii

  · efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
enhanced through institutional and management measures in support of improved asset
maintenance, safely and construction quality, while preparing the sector for
commercialization opportunities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO remained the same throughout project implementation.

  (a) PDO Indicators
  The key indicators were slightly modified in the project. The PAD and Loan
Agreement did not contain baseline or target values for the indicators. These were
provided through Supplemental Letter No. 2 on February 5, 2001 except for the outcome
indicators: `Balance of provincial expenditure programs', `Transport Costs' and
`Financial performance of expressway company.' These Supplemental Letter indicators,
except for the three without any baseline or target values, have been used as the basis for
indicators in this ICR.

  (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators
  As noted above, the approval documents did not contain values for the PDO indicators.
These were defined in Supplemental Letter No. 2 (February 5, 2001) and are listed under
the `Formally Revised Target Values'.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                              approval           Target        Completion or
                                            documents)           Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVIA) in Zhumadian-
                Xinyang corridor (in RMBY billion).
Value
quantitative or 127.0                                        245.6           243.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                     12/31/2005      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was achieved with the actual value less than 1% below the target

achievement)    value.

Indicator 2 :   Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVIA) in affected counties
                (in RMBY billion).
Value
quantitative or 18.5                                         35.3            36.0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                     12/31/2005      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was achieved with the actual value exceeding the target value by

achievement)    2%.




                                              iii

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of periodic maintenance put out to competitive bidding.
Value
quantitative or 25%                         100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2005                        12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Responsiveness and Effectiveness maintenance programs.
Value
quantitative or 60%                                             90%           60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                        12/31/2005    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        While responsiveness and effectiveness of the maintenance program in 2005 was

achievement)    below the target, the 2006 results showed a significant improvement to 89%.

Indicator 5 :   Traffic safety (Number of fatalities per year in Province).
Value
quantitative or 9,142                                           7,722         4,604
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                        12/31/2005    12/31/2005
Comments        The number of fatalities is over 40% lower than the target value. It should be
(incl. %        noted that the units in Supplemental Letter No. 1 are injuries, but the values
achievement)    supplied are fatalities. The latter have therefore been used.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Average daily traffic on existing road/new expressway
Value
(quantitative   6,611/0                                         6,879/14,040 7,327/10,668
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                        12/31/2005    12/31/2005

Comments        Total traffic volume on both the NH107 and the ZXE is 13% lower than expected

(incl. %        as of December 2005. The diversion rate from NH107 to ZXE is similar to what

achievement)    was anticipated in the PAD (58% vs 60%), although lower than suggested by the
                revised target values.
Indicator 2 :   Average vehicle speed (km/h) on existing road/new expressway
Value
(quantitative   51.7/0                                          51.3/87.8     62/89.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                        12/31/2005    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        The vehicle speeds on both the existing road and the expressway are higher than

achievement)    the target values.



                                                  iv

Indicator 3 :  Average daily traffic on rural roads (veh/day)
Value
(quantitative  1,375                                          2,953          2,922
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                      12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was achieved with the actual flows within 1% of the target value.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Number of days per year LRIPC roads closed
Value
(quantitative  4.4                                            0              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                      12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Successful completion of the institutional strengthening and training program
Value
(quantitative  0%                                             100%           100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                      12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Functional operation of road management system
Value
(quantitative  0%                                             100%           100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                      12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Implementation and application of construction quality assurance system
Value
(quantitative  0%                                             100%           100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1997                                      12/31/2005     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was fully achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/21/2000      Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.00



                                               v

  2   12/20/2000      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  3   06/27/2001      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory             7.50
  4   12/19/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            13.55
  5   06/25/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            25.99
  6   12/19/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            31.67
  7   06/09/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            44.71
  8   11/26/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            78.38
  9   06/03/2004         Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory        94.42
  10  12/23/2004         Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory       114.96
  11  06/20/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory           115.64
  12  12/06/2005         Satisfactory          Satisfactory           124.36
  13  06/15/2006         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory    124.59
  14  04/06/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory           124.59



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

            1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN


1.1 Context at Appraisal

Context. At the time of the preparation of the Third Henan Highway Project, the Bank's
strategic objective, in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ­ Report 20541
presented to the Board on March 18, 1997, was to support China's economy by providing
assistance in four key areas: (i) Public sector management and accountability/Enhancing
governance; (ii) Transition to a socialist market economy; (iii) Strategies for rural
development; and (iv) Strategies for urban development.

At the transport sector level, several important pieces of sector work were undertaken
including: China-Strategies for reducing poverty in the 1990 (June 1992 ­ WB Report
10409-CHA), Sharing Rising Incomes: China 2020 (1997 ­ WB Report), and two
important report on the situation of socio-economic and rural roads in China's major
poverty-stricken areas (ICT, 1997 and July 1998). High level dissemination seminars
were carried out by the Bank in the previous five years and had led to the identification of
five main challenges facing China in its attempt to cope with the rapid expansion of its
transport network: (i) Building sector institutions; (ii) Strengthening resources
mobilization; (iii) Enhancing accessibility to remote/low income areas; (iv) Sustaining
road maintenance; and (v) Improving construction quality.

The main concerns of the central and provincial highway authorities were to ensure that
the highway system helped integrate China's national economy and facilitate mobility of
goods and services. Under their strategy, the investment priority for the highway sub-
sector during its Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) were identified as: (i) high priority
was given to developing rapidly the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS); (ii)
development of provincial and rural roads that will feed into the NTHS in order to
maximize the benefit of NTHS investment; and, (iii) intensified policies and regulations
reforms with priority attention given to financing issues and to ensuring efficient
utilization of funds.

The Bank was also heavily involved in the financing of several of the high priority
sections of the NTHS. The continued involvement of the Bank was to result in much
needed additional financial resources to help remove highway bottlenecks and increase
traffic capacity in high priority transport corridors. Bank involvement would help to
accelerate policy, institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design,
supervision, construction, operation, maintenance and finance. Bank involvement was
also expected to benefit the design and the quality of construction of the roads to be
undertaken.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project aims at providing a more efficient and effective transport infrastructure in
support of social and economic development in Henan Province.




                                               1

To meet the above development objectives, the project targeted the following outcomes:

    · traffic congestion reduced and mobility enhanced in the Zumadian-Xinyang
        corridor, a key section of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS);

    · accessibility to the poor areas in the province improved; and

    · efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
        enhanced through institutional and management measures in support of improved
        asset maintenance, safely and construction quality, while preparing the sector for
        commercialization opportunities.

The principal outcome/impact indicators selected for monitoring progress towards the
above development objectives were:

    · Gross output value of agriculture and industry the corridor

    · Gross output value of agriculture and industry in affected poor counties;

    · Percentage of road maintenance expenditure put out to completive tender, and
        responsiveness and effectiveness of maintenance programs;

    · Responsiveness and effectiveness of road maintenance programs; and,

    · Traffic accident rates in the province.

The overall project design and implementation were done accordance with good practices
and lessons learned from previous projects.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The key indicators were slightly modified in the project. The PAD and Loan Agreement
did not contain baseline or target values for the indicators. These were provided through
Supplemental Letter No. 2 on February 5, 2001 except for the outcome indicators:
`Balance of provincial expenditure programs', `Transport Costs' and `Financial
performance of expressway company.' These Supplemental Letter indicators, except for
the three without any baseline or target values, have been used as the basis for indicators
in this ICR.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries are:

    · The major quantifiable benefits of the project are the reduction of vehicle
        operating costs and time costs for road users. The expressway has shorter
        distances, improved surface conditions and riding comfort, improved geometry,


                                              2

       reduced traffic interference, and better safety facilities than the existing roads.
       Therefore, most of the long-distance traffic and some of the local traffic has
       diverted from the existing roads to the new expressway. This has led to a
       reduction in the current congestion levels on the existing roads.

   · The project also benefits residents of poor counties in the province where local
       roads were improved. This provides improved access to health, education and
       other social serves as well as to markets. The total affected population in the
       expressway corridor between Zumadian and Xinyang is estimated at about 1.85
       million, and the affected population in poor counties is estimated at 4.6 million.

    · Other benefits which are non-quantifiable include strengthening the capabilities of
       the provincial agencies and their related institutions which are responsible for the
       planning, design, financing, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance
       of highways in Henan. Also, the project has contributed to lower traffic accident
       rates on the highway network through the implementation of the traffic safety
       component. Furthermore, the project has helped to improve the quality of
       construction of highways through the continuing introduction of improve
       technology and stricter arrangements for supervision of construction. The project
       also fostered improved practices in the areas of environment, land acquisition and
       resettlement of affected people and participatory approaches to project
       preparation and implementation.

1.5 Original Components

The project included the following three major components:

Part A: Construction of Expressway (US$294.8 million including contingencies)

This component was aimed at increasing capacity in main north-south corridor. It was
divided in the following four sub-components.

A.1 Construction of Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway (ZXE), which financed:

   · Construction of about 95 km of expressway between the cities of Zumadian and
       Xinyang in Henan;
   · Construction of expressway interchanges;
   · Construction of a service area and administration and maintenance facilities; and
   · Supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment
       for toll collection, telecommunication and traffic monitoring along said
       expressway.

A.2 Construction and improvement of interconnecting roads which financed the
construction and improvement of about 51 km of interconnecting roads between the
Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway and selected cities.




                                             3

A.3 Equipment to be used for the operation and maintenance of the Zumadian-Xinyang
Expressway;

A.4 Construction supervision using a joint domestic and international consulting team.

A.5 Land acquisition and resettlement for affected persons under part A.1 and A.2
mentioned above. This was financed with counterpart funds.


Part B: Local Road Improvement in Poor Counties (US$43.9 million including
contingencies)

This financed this programmatic component focused on the rehabilitation or
improvement of about 400 km of local roads in the prefectures of Zumadian and Xinyang
in Henan to provide the rural population of approximately eight poor counties in said
prefectures better access to transportation and communication, and to facilitate their
economic activities. The local roads were selected on the basis of the Henan Provincial
Communications Department (HPCD) high priority towards providing or improving
accessibility to remote villages in poor counties and as a continuity of the second Henan
highway project Road Improvement for Poverty Alleviation component. All selected
roads were economically justified.

Part C: Institutional Development and Reform Plan (Total estimated US$3.42
million World Bank loan (US$3.6 million including contingencies)

This component included:

C.1 Training programs for HPCD and selected affiliated institutions, including the Henan
Provincial Survey, Planning and Design Institute and the Quality Control Management
Center, in the areas of highway network planning, financing, management and regulatory
policy, construction and maintenance technology and management, and environmental
protection.

C.2 Studies and technical assistance covering areas including:

    · Asphalt Pavement Performance to improve pavement design and performance;
    · Road management improvements through new technology and planning practices;
    · Road safety improvements;
    · Commercialization of toll highways;
    · Trade facilitation between Henan and Hubei provinces; and
    · Provincial conceptual framework for traffic engineering systems.

C.3 Provision of equipment for institutional strengthening. This component consisted of
the procurement of specialized equipment for the various studies as well as for the HPCD,
the Construction Quality Control Center, and the Design Institute.




                                             4

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Interconnecting roads: Due to rapid construction and development of the highway
network in Henan, two of the five proposed ZXE interconnecting roads had already been
constructed and funded by the provincial government. The other three interconnecting
roads remained part of the project. This resulted in a loan savings of US$2.5 million.

E&M Implementation: Tendering activities for the ZXE were all completed by the end
of 2001. Civil works for the ZXE were completed in November 2003. The E&M
contract was signed on December 2003 and work was to be completed by August 2004.
The ZXE opened to traffic in December 2003 before the E&M contract could be
completed. The HPCD carried out its own temporary installation project including toll
stations and control centers outside the scope of the Bank funding. Following problems
related to land acquisition and delayed approval of building plans; one major network-
monitoring sub-center was not completed before the Loan Closing Date. This resulted in
loan savings of US$11.2 million.

Additional Activities and Equipment: The unallocated funds (US$10.8 million), loan
savings from the interconnecting roads (US$2.5 million), and the E&M savings (US$11.2
million) were proposed to be used to finance: (i) a second road rehabilitation package
under the Local Road Improvement in Poor County (LRIPC) at an estimated cost of
US$12.8 million; and, (ii) the procurement of additional equipment under the
Institutional Development and Reform Plan Component at an estimated cost of US$11.7
million. Although the loan agreement was amended on 12 October 2005, these activities
were never implemented due to the DRC refusing to allow the use of loan savings for
new sub-components based on Decree 28 (2005).

LRIPC Disbursement Ratio: The modification of the Bank's disbursement ratio from
32% to 41% for the LRIPC (Part B) component to reduce pressure on needed local
counterpart funds.

Loan Extension: A one year extension of the loan closing date from December 31, 2005
to December 31, 2006, was approved to allow for the completion of several institutional
development sub-components as well as the completion of the second package of LRIPC
and the procurement of additional equipment which never eventuated.




                                             5

             2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

A. Project Preparation. The project objectives were fully consistent with the
Government's priorities and the CAS. Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-
financed highway project in China had shown a high commitment for the implementation
of the hard components of the project, which accounted for 99% of the project costs. In
addition, the HPCD had shown strong commitment and ownership for the project soft
components by maintaining significant continuity between technical assistance from the
previous two highway project financed by the Bank. The initial risks were estimated as
modest or substantial, with an overall rating of modest. This modest rating was fully
justified given the previous experience in the province and the great commitment for
implementation of similar projects in China. Identified potential risks during
implementation included: stability of the core project management staff, availability of
counterpart resources, outside interference, continued commitment to implement TA's
final recommendations, good performance of contractors and consultants. Mitigation
measures were proposed for each of the identified risks.

B. Project Design. The project design was sound and reflected lessons learned on other
projects in China, as well as the previous two projects in Henan. The three components
addressed critical issues for Henan Province, and the HPCD.

The technical analysis undertaken during project identification and preparation were
sound. The project was designed taking into account the relevant economic, financial,
technical and institutional factors. Detailed expressway traffic forecasts were developed
on the basis of origin-destination surveys and the expected tolls that would be charged on
the expressway. Financial risks for the project roads were minimal based on sensitivity
analysis. The cost of construction and maintenance for the project toll free roads of the
project (LRIPC and interconnecting roads), being only a small fraction HPCD fund flow,
had a minimal fiscal impact. A number of issues were identified from experience under
the previous two highway projects in the province. They were set under one overall
objective: the Institutional Development and Reform Plan (IDRP) component. This
master plan provided an effective framework to integrate the numerous activities and to
facilitate discussions during the annual joint reviews. Also the IDRP was viewed as a
dashboard not only for activities under the project, but also for assessing progress and
impact on the road sector in Henan.

Engineering designs prepared by Henan Provincial Communications, Planning, Survey
and Design Institute were reviewed by a private consultant firm (Italian consultant)
financed under Italian consultant trust fund (TF-518001). The Bank's comments and
recommendations were taken into account by HPCD and integrated in the final
engineering design.

Project design paid particular attention to minimize the impact on agricultural land and
on communities along the alignment. The resettlement action plan (RAP) was prepared


                                              6

for the expressway and the interconnecting roads which benefited from experience gained
under previous projects. For the LRIPC, where no major impact was expected because of
minor changes in the alignment, a Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared.

C. Quality at Entry. The overall quality at entry was rated highly satisfactory by a QAG
review in April 2001. This rating is based on: (i) a generally very competent and
committed borrower with a good working knowledge of the Bank; (ii) the experience
gained through two prior operations with the same borrower; and (iii) a strong Task Team
with good support from its management and peer reviewers. However, the absence of
baseline or target values in the results framework (see Section 2.3) was an important
omission which should have been identified during preparation.

2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented smoothly, with the expressway, interconnecting roads and
the LRIPC roads completed well within the project timeframe, mostly because of strong
experienced gained through two prior projects.

The LRIPC component was deemed very successful with visible positive impacts (better
housing, more businesses, reduced travel time, yearly opened roads, etc.) in communities
along the roads. The HPCD therefore suggested extending this component with an
additional package of 12 roads. This was supported by the MOF through a loan
amendment in August 2005. The additional package of LRIPC and the procurement of
equipment for institutional strengthening planned under the August 2005 Loan
Amendment did not, however, materialize before the Loan Closing Date. The revised
LRIPC was left uncompleted due to a refusal from NDRC to allow for the use of loan
savings based on China's Decree 28 (2005) that calls for the cancellation of all WB loan
savings.

Approval for the procurement of equipment also suffered delays related to the eligibility
of the Henan Transport Polytechnic School which was not deemed to be an agency of the
HPCD.

The project was not rated by QAG under implementation status.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project design adopted a series of project development objective indicators and
physical targets for measuring implementation progress. Unfortunately, the M&E design
and application had a number of deficiencies which have impacted on the ICR:

    · Missing values in PAD: Neither the PAD nor Legal Agreement contained
        baseline nor target values for any of the indicators.
    · Partial Values Available: Supplemental Letter No. 2, dated 5 February 2001,
        presented values for all indicators except three of the outcome indicators:
        `Balance of provincial expenditure programs', `Transport Costs' and `Financial
        performance of expressway company'. These Supplemental Letter indicators,



                                              7

         except for the three without any baseline or target values, have been used as the
         basis for indicators in this ICR (see Data Sheet).
     · Project Monitoring: The project monitoring, as contained in the ISRs, used a
         different set of indicators than in the Supplemental Letter No. 2--not including
         `Balance of provincial expenditure programs', `Transport Costs', `Financial
         performance of expressway company', `the number of days the LRIPC roads were
         closed' or any indicators for the institutional strengthening1.

In addition to the above issues, some of the outputs in the PAD log-frame are more
representative of outcomes than outputs.

The ICR therefore discusses outcomes in the context of the three components of the
project:

     · Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the main corridor
     · Accessibility to poor areas in province improved
     · Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
         enhanced

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As a Category A project, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared for the expressway and the other
roads included in the project. The major impacts of the project assessed for construction
and operation periods were dust and noise pollution. Mitigation measures given in the
EMP were implemented. The results and data from environmental monitoring activities
were provided periodically in the EMP implementation progress reports, which indicated
that the environmental quality at the project sites met the national environmental
standards and requirements.

The resettlement and environment teams of the project carried out public consultation
(local people, council representatives, local governments and enterprises) and
questionnaire analysis of public opinion supplemented by interviews. The people
consulted showed concern for irrigation disruption, community separation and
environmental protection during construction. Final EIA, EMP and RAP were made
public locally in Henan as well as disclosed through the Bank's Infoshop. Local people
were intensively informed through radio and television about the availability of
documents related to their resettlement rights.


1It should be noted that although the project monitoring did not include all of the indicators in the PAD or
the Supplemental Letter No. 2, it did include the key indicators that would indicate the successful
achievement of the PDO. This constituted all indicators in the Data Sheet Section F(a), as well indicators 1
to 3 in Section F(b).




                                                      8

Major resettlement impacts are summarized in the table below:

                         Table 1: Summary of Resettlement Activities
                           Items                   RAP         Imple-
                                                              mentation  Change

         Land acquisition (mu)                     9,816       9,517      -0.3%
         House demolition (m2)                     34,295      39,219     14.4%
         Total resettlement cost (Y million)       242.19      246.65      1%

The floor space of houses demolished was increased due to newly added assets between
the preliminary design and the implementation. The total resettlement cost did not
increase significantly because those assets were found to be large, simple structures of
very poor quality which had comparatively low compensation rates.

The land and house demolition compensation funds were distributed to the affected
households. The compensation rates were in line with the RAP. The assessment of
livelihood restoration showed that the income of the affected people was increased 25%
per capita and the floor space of the new houses was increased by 4% per household after
land acquisition and relocation. The project affected people were satisfied with the
resettlement implementation. The resettlement implementation was considered to be
generally successful and it was concluded that the resettlement objective of improving the
livelihood of the project affected people after resettlement implementation was met.

During project implementation, no significant changes to the project financial
management system were noted. Project financial statements were prepared in the format
agreed with the Bank. The audited project financial statements, as required by the legal
agreements, were submitted to the Bank later than the due dates in the first three years,
but then improved to comply with the legal agreements. All the audit reports were issued
with unqualified (clean) opinions, but some internal control weaknesses and
noncompliance (slow disbursement, detaining project funds, invalid supporting
documents, idle assets, funds used in non-project activities, large volume of cash
transactions, etc.) were identified by auditors.

The procurement carried out under the project was in compliance with Bank policies and
procedures as required in the Loan Agreement and the procurement guidelines. Most
contracts were awarded to the qualified lowest responsive bidders, and when the lowest
bids were rejected, the justification and documentary evidences were provided.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

ZXE and Interconnecting Roads. Since its opening in December 2003, the ZXE and its
interconnecting roads have been successfully carrying traffic.

Construction quality issues amplified by high temperatures, poor pavement mix-design
and truck overloading have resulted in premature rutting on several road segments.
Following several studies and discussions between the HPCD, the design institute and the



                                              9

contractors, an acceptable compromise was reached between the project employer and the
contractor assigning responsibility of the damages. The Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway
Construction Company (ZXECC), currently managing and operating the highway
successfully, conducted remedial works and will monitor the situation over the coming
years.

Graduated tolls which see overloaded trucks being charged at higher rates have been
introduced, although the marginal toll is much lower than the marginal damages done by
such vehicles. The ZXECC has adopted good management practices addressing safety
issues, infrastructure maintenance planning and implementing, continuous staff training.
It is well funded with toll revenue already well above initial estimates.

The LRIPC rehabilitated or improved by the project are now under regular maintenance
schemes. The roads have improved access for the local residents.

With regard to the Institutional Development and Reform Plan Component, all training
programs were completed and contributed positively to the project success. Studies
under the project were successfully completed, executive summaries were prepared and
results were publicized through seminars, conferences and newsletters. The Road
Management and Maintenance sub-component was successful in adapting the HDM4
model to the CPMS and resulted in the establishment of annual and multi year plans for
road asset management. Although the coordination office for safety and overloading
were dissolved because of an overlap in responsibilities, the mandate and functions of
this office will be continued within existing agencies. The HPCD has also expressed
interest in participating in a potential Bank financed Second Generation Traffic Safety
Project.


                               3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives were clear and in accordance with the long term development
goals of the Government of China. They remain in line with the current CPS (May 2006),
which reflects the Bank's strategic objective to foster growth, reduce poverty, encourage
good governance and improve the environment, as well as support China's development
agenda by infrastructure improvement. The objectives of this project also conform with
the Chinese government's strategy, including policy and regulatory reforms with special
attention to financing issues and ensuring efficient fund utilization; the development of
all-weather access roads to remote/low income areas in poor counties; and the rapid
development of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) including provincial and
rural roads feeding into the system.




                                              10

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Summary

The project met the PDO of providing a more efficient and effective transport
infrastructure in support of the social and economic development in Henan Province. The
ZXE was successful in reducing traffic congestion and enhancing mobility. It also
successfully reduced travel time and transport costs while improving traffic safety. The
LRIPC component has enhanced access and mobility to the poor counties participating in
the project. The more efficient and effective transport infrastructure have created
opportunities in all sectors as shown in the resulting increased economic activity and
growth in the project area. The institutional development contributed to better
governance and social improvement through better maintenance management, improved
safety, minimized environmental impact and adequate resettlement activities.

As described in Section 2.3, the M&E design and implementation on the project had a
number of deficiencies. Neither the PAD nor Legal Agreement contained baseline or
target values for any of the indicators. Partial values were provided for indicators through
Supplemental Letter No. 2, but three key PDO indicators had no values. During the
supervision, the project team did not monitor all the indicators. In light of these
difficulties, the achievement of the PDO is addressed in the context of the three main
components of the project:

    · Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the main corridor
    · Accessibility to poor areas in province improved
    · Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
        enhanced

It will be shown that in spite of the deficiencies in the M&E framework, one can be
confident that the PDO was achieved.

A. Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the main corridor

The 95 km, dual lane, ZXE and its interconnecting roads, initially planned to be open in
early 2003 but was opened to traffic in December 2003.

The objective of reducing congestion on the parallel national road (NH107) and complete
this missing high capacity link of the NTHS was met. In 2005, the ZXE was carrying
69% of total corridor traffic as anticipated in the PAD--some 13,000 veh/day. The
average Daily Traffic (ADT) on the NH107 was reduced by 14% while the total corridor
traffic has increased by 186% over the last 7 years providing infrastructure within an
acceptable level of service.

The average vehicle speed on NH107 has increased to 62 km/h from 51.7 km/h, while the
average speed for the ZXE users is 89.8 km/h.




                                              11

An additional benefit anticipated in the PAD was a reduction in vehicle operating costs
(VOC). A VOC survey concluded that due to toll charges, VOC for freight transport were
33-38% higher for freight transport, and the same for passenger transport. Excluding toll
charges, the VOC were reduced by 22-25% for freight transport and 17% for passenger
transport.

The reduction in traffic congestion along the ZXE transport corridor, along with the
implementation of measures from the action plans to improve safety, as resulted in a
reduction for the corridor of the rate of injuries (injured per 10000 vehicles) by 48% and
the rate of fatalities (fatalities per 10000 vehicles) by 22%, reversing the previous
observed trend of year over year significant increase. These data however hide a grim
picture for NH107, where the rate of injuries and fatalities were found to be significantly
higher (up to 254% for fatalities) in 2003 and 2004. Implementation of safety measures to
improve safety along the NH107 in late 2004 and early 2005 have successfully
contributed to decrease these ratios by almost 50%. Lower rates of injuries and fatalities
on the ZXE (20% of NH107) also confirm that it is much safer to travel on.

Yearly reports on the financial performance of Expressway Company in term of loan
repayment and operation and maintenance (O&M) expenditures were prepared and
confirmed the adoption of good management practices addressing safety issues,
infrastructure maintenance planning and implementing, continuous staff training.

Toll revenue already well above initial estimates will provide sufficient revenue for loan
repayment and operational and maintenance costs. The economic benefits of the project
are considered sustainable, without any appreciable risk, as traffic has been growing
steadily by over 9% p.a. since opening.

B. Accessibility to poor areas in province improved

A total of 373 km of road improvements was completed under the LRIPC program. The
roads were paved and road closure due to bad weather has been virtually eliminated,
except in exceptional cases of flooding or landslides. Accessibility to market and
services has been enhanced and income of the people increased. This is evidenced by the
more than doubling of traffic on these roads over the project period (see Data Sheet).
Some areas are also more accessible for tourism and alternative businesses to the
traditional farming are being developed. A good example is the recent development of
the tourist industry and the significant social benefits related to tea production around the
Nanwan Reservoir area near Xinyang.

Improved accessibility leads to reduced poverty. The proxy measure used for poverty
reduction in the key performance indicators is the Gross Output Value of Industry and
Agriculture (GOVIA). As shown below, this proxy shows a 35% and 23% increase in
GOVIA respectively for the ZXE corridor and the affected poor counties between 2001
and 2005. These results are well below the national and provincial growth indicator
which confirms that further investments are needed to help develop these poor areas. The




                                               12

data also confirms an acceleration of the growth with most of the growth (54 and 70%)
occurring once the roads were opened to traffic.

                        Table 2: GOVIA Comparison from 2001 to 2005
                                                  GOVIA (RMB billion)
                                       2001      2002      2003     2004     2005
                    China              9593     10239     11669    13652    18232
         Variation from baseline in %     0        7%      22%      42%      90%
                 Yearly variation in%              7%      14%      17%      34%
               Henan Province           584        617      705      882     1054
         Variation from baseline in %     0        6%      21%      51%      80%
                 Yearly variation in%              6%      14%      25%      20%
                ZXE corridor            181        195      209      227      244
         Variation from baseline in %     0        8%      15%      25%      35%
         Yearly variation in%                      8%        7%       9%      7%
           Affected poor counties        29         32        31       34      36
         Variation from baseline in %     0       10%        7%     17%      24%
         Yearly variation in%                     10%       -3%     10%       6%



C. Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
enhanced

The efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network was
enhanced through institutional and management measures in the areas of better trained
staff, operation of a road management system, improved quality of construction and
maintenance.

3.3 Efficiency

Net Present Value

The economic evaluation is composed of two major components: (i) ZXE; and, (ii) the
local roads under LRIPC. The economic evaluation covers all subcomponents as well as
the entire project. Both costs and benefits reflect December 2006 prices.

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the ZXE is estimated at 19.7%; the net
present value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at RMB 1,747.1
million, compared to the PAD's estimate of 19.0% and RMB 1,246.5 million,
respectively.

The recalculated EIRR and NPV of the entire LRIPC are estimated to be 29.5%, ranging
from 12.5% to 56.7%, and RMB 570.7 million, respectively. The PAD's estimates were
30.9% and RMB 415.0 million, respectively.




                                             13

The recalculated EIRR and NPV of the entire project are estimated to be 21.0% and RMB
2,317.8 million. LRIPC, compared with the PAD's estimates of 20.5% and RMB 1,660.0
million. The results are summarized in the following table.

                   Table 3: EIRR (in %) AND NPV (12%, RMB million)
                                       ICR                  PAD

                                EIRR       NPV         EIRR      NPV
                      ZXE        19.7      1,747.1      19.0     1,246.5

                      LRIPC      29.5                   30.9     415.0

                      Total      21.0      2,317.8      20.5     1,660.0


The cost savings (9% for the ZXE, 12% for the LRIPC, and 10% for the entire project)
have offset the lower traffic demand on the ZXE. As a result, the recalculated EIRR for
the ZXE and the LRIPC as well as the entire project are similar to the PAD's estimates.
The detailed economic analysis is in Annex 5.

Financial Rate of Return

The financial evaluation is focused on the ZXE because the ZXE alone constitutes about
86% of the total project cost and there is no toll for the roads under the LRIPC. Prior to
opening to traffic in December 2003, a financially independent expressway company was
formed with the responsibility for the day-to-day management, operations and
maintenance of the expressway. The main income of the company is the tolls charged to
the road users. The toll rates are set by the provincial government. The company is
planning to use the toll revenue to cover amortization charges of the Bank and domestic
loans. Based on the current toll revenue and operating costs, the company will be able to
generate enough cash flow to over the operation, maintenance, and debt services of the
expressway for the life of the project.

The financial profitability of the ZXE is better than the PAD's estimates due to the higher
than expected total operating revenue arising from higher than expected toll charges and
the lower than expected total operating cost. The result of the financial evaluation for the
ZXE shows that the FIRR will be 11.2% with a NPV of RMB 1,916.7 million (at the
discount rate of 4.7%), which is better than the FIRR of 9.2% with a NPV of RMB 923.9
million (at the discount rate of 6.0%) forecasted in the PAD. The detailed financial
analysis is in Annex 5 and summarized as follows.


                      Table 4: FIRR (in %) and NPV (RMB million)
                                    ICR                      PAD

                              EIRR        NPV                     NPV
                                         (4.7%)       EIRR
                                                                 (6.0%)

                     ZXE       11.2      1,916.7        9.2       923.9




                                              14

Cost Effectiveness

At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$359.55 million, of which US$150
million (42%) was to be financed by the Bank loan. The total actual project cost of
US$311.43 million is 87% of the original estimate. Detailed costs are included in Annex
1.

As shown in the following table, the estimated cost per km was higher than for projects
done at the same time in neighboring provinces. This higher estimate was due in part to
the anticipated heavier traffic volume that led to the design of a stronger pavement
structure with ticker pavement layers. The final cost was still higher than in other
provinces.

                      Table 5: Estimated and Actual cost (US$ million)
                                     Estimated cost         Actual cost (US$ million)
          Province   Length in        (US$ million)
                        km
                                    Total       per km        Total        per km
           Henan        95          295           3.1          268           2.8
           Jiangxi      130         325           2.5         270            2.1
           Hubei        110         255           2.3         220            2.0
           Hunan        180         321           1.8         418            2.3



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The project aimed at providing a more efficient and effective transport infrastructure in
support of social and economic development in Henan Province. There were three main
components of the project:

    · Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the main corridor
    · Accessibility to poor areas in province improved
    · Efficiency and effectiveness in public sector management of the road network
        enhanced

Although, as discussed in Sections 2.3 and 3.2, there were problems with the M&E
framework and the indicators used in the project, the key performance indicators
benchmarks have generally been met or exceeded:

    · The GOVAI in the affected counties has increased, although with rates lower than
        the national or provincial averages;
    · Transport costs are lower, once tolls are taken into account;
    · Competitive tendering of road maintenance has increased;
    · Traffic accident rates are reduced;
    · The financial viability of the toll company is not in doubt; and,



                                             15

    · Traffic diversion to the expressway is slightly lower than anticipated (58% vs.
         60%) and it has relieved congestion on the parallel national highway (NH107)
         while reducing total number of accident injury and fatality rates and reducing
         travel time;

In addition, the component output indicators have been met or exceeded. The ex-post
EIRR and NPV show the project has strong economic benefits.

It is therefore clear that the project was successful in providing a more efficient and
effective transport infrastructure in support of social and economic development in
Henan Province.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As described in Section 3.2 B, the project had a major impact in reducing poverty in the
poor counties served by the project roads. Although not classified as a "poverty project",
the project had a substantial poverty alleviation dimension through the LRIPC component
as demonstrated by the ex-post evaluation of this component carried out by HPCD. This
led to this component being selected for official presentation at the WB co-sponsored
2004 International Conference on Poverty in Shanghai.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Institutional Development and Reform Plan impact, defined as the extent to which
the project has improved the HPCD's ability to make use of its human and financial
resources, is rated as satisfactory. Project management skill, maintenance planning and
implementation, design techniques, quality control procedures, traffic safety, business
models and financing schemes for expressways have all been improved. The equipment
procured is all being used.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Foreign consultants. With the completion of this project, it appears that the HPCD
would not have needed foreign consultants to support the design and general supervision
activities of projects. The relationship between the foreign supervision consultant and
HPCD shifted in the last years from mentoring to partnership as the value added by the
foreign consultants increasingly became more limited. The HPCD is now looking for
high level technological and strategic support in specific areas such as ITS, integrated
traffic safety, overloading control, sophisticated road maintenance software and
management tools, environmental impact mitigation.

Newly paved rural roads used as farming facilities. On several local roads with low
traffic, newly paved surfaces are used to dry cereals, while traffic is used to separate
grain from the shaft. This could be considered a positive impact of the newly paved rural



                                              16

road since it provide an economical way of processing grain for relatively poor farmers,
but it also raises new safety issues related to the presence of workers on the road for
several days a year. This interference with traffic creates new hazards for both vehicle
passengers and the farmers (including children) making use of this unorthodox
mechanism for drying cereals and separating the grain from the shaft. This also raises
health issues related to the content in bitumen sub-product and other vehicle pollutant in
the grain processed this way. New bituminous pavements are known to shed more
bitumen in the first year. This practice should be stopped by the traffic police.

Environmentally friendly roads. Stemming from the experience of several expressway
and highway projects, Henan is moving toward better engineering standards and practices
to make future road projects more environmental friendly. This has required the Bank to
stay involved in supporting the changes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable



                   4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME


Rating: Negligible to Low

The project aimed to provide more efficient, safe and effective transport infrastructure in
support of the social and economic development in Henan province. The risk that the
development outcome will not be realized and sustainable is low for the following
reasons:

    · The physical investments have resulted in good transport infrastructure, both for
        the expressway and the local roads;
    · Traffic in these corridors continues to grow showing the demand for the
        investments;
    · Traffic safety has been improved;
    · Congestion on the existing road has been relieved and are likely to remain
        acceptable considering available capacity and diversion rates to the newly built
        expressway; and
    · The local roads have had a significant reduction in number of closures, and the
        increase in GOVAI is expected to be sustained.

There is evidence that routine maintenance activities have been initiated to protect and
even improve the project's assets.




                                              17

               5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance at the project identification and preparation was rated highly
satisfactory by a QAG review in April 2001. The task team ensured that the project
objectives were consistent with GOC and Bank strategies.

The Bank performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
highly satisfactory. The Bank team was led by an experienced highway engineer and
included specialists covering environment, social/resettlement, economics, rural roads,
expressway engineering, institutional strengthening and highway safety. Potential risks
were identified, and the Bank's Safeguard Policies were adequately addressed. A
financial management review was undertaken to ensure compliance with the Bank's
financial management procedures. To improve the overall quality, during preparation the
engineering designs and technical bidding documents, including cost estimates for the
proposed expressway and related roads as well as their E&M facilities, were reviewed by
international engineering consultants under grant funding. The overall QAG rating was
hence based on: (i) a generally very competent and committed borrower with a good
working knowledge of the Bank; (ii) the experience gained through two prior operations
with the same borrower; and (iii) a strong Task Team with good support from its
management and peer reviewers.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The project had two task team leaders (TTL) in charge of the project supervision. One
was responsible for the project preparation and for the first four years of implementation
while the second TTL performed supervision for the last two years, closed the project and
prepared the ICR. The task management transition went smoothly, with the first TTL
providing support and advice to the new TTL. The Bank's policies and procedures were
applied consistently. World Bank missions were conducted in a professional and
constructive manner, and comprised specialists with a sound knowledge of issues. The
timing of missions was appropriate and comment received from HPCD staff indicated a
respectful working relationship and flexible approach by staff. Aide Memoires and
Management Letters were completed in a timely manner with clear references to needed
actions covering all aspects of project component, safeguards and fiduciary issues. An
area of improvement would have been to ensure the more appropriate M&E framework,
supported by regular data.




                                            18

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory performance is based mostly on the government continuous effort
throughout the entire project phases to: (i) establish a very effective and stable project
team and project framework; (ii) deliver within the agreed deadlines good quality reports
and project outputs; and (iii) show strong and continuous commitment to complete all
project components, including the institutional development components.

Some minor issues and delays occurred at the end of the project. These had minimal
impact on the completion of the original components but prevented the completion of the
additional component introduced via the October 2005 loan amendment. About eight
months before the loan closing date, the Bank had recommended either a new one year
extension of the project to pursue an extended safety component or the cancellation of
loan funds to minimize commitment fees. The government did not cancel the loan funds
when led to unnecessary commitment fees. The client acknowledged that it should have
been more pro-active on this issue and follow the Bank recommendation more diligently.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing Agency Performance
Henan Provincial Communications Department

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. HPCD demonstrated
commitment to achieving the project objectives, including not only construction, but also
institutional development through support for the project financed studies, workshops and
training programs. Construction of the ZXE and LRIPC components was done with
some savings in costs and an acceptable quality of works.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the government and the implementing agency and also considering that all the original
civil works and institutional components were completed successfully and most project
outcomes are deemed to be sustainable,


                                  6. LESSONS LEARNED

Institutional Strengthening. In spite of a broad range of topics, complex issues and
many stakeholders, institutional strengthening can be successful. In this project two
features contributed to the success: (i) having an integrated framework like the IDRP; and,



                                             19

(ii) a robust monitoring plan showing expected milestones and facilitating the joint
annual reviews throughout implementation.

Local Roads in Poor Counties. This form of targeted intervention has proven very
effective in enhancing economic opportunities in poor areas. The 2004 Shanghai
Conference on Poverty called for the scaling up of such operations. It has been
encouraging to see expanded rural road components in several recent highway projects in
China. This also became a significant input for the "New Socialist Countryside" policy
which calls for more investment in poor rural areas.

Traffic Safety. The Bank should pay more attention to the impact of the construction
works on safety and include mitigations measures during the construction phase. During
road construction and maintenance there can be an increase in traffic accidents resulting
in more injuries and fatalities. Once open to traffic, a sharp reduction in traffic accident
injuries and fatalities was observed on the new expressway. Traffic safety should be
addressed in an integrated approach involving all stakeholders (police, health, education,
and transport departments).

Pavement Structure. The impact of high cement content (above 4.5% in weight) in base
course remains a problem. While it allows for greater pavement strength it also produces
more shrinkage cracks and a rigid pavement effect. These cracks reflect prematurely
through the bituminous pavement and allow infiltrations in the pavement structure,
weakening it at an early stage of its life. Pavement performance research conducted
under this project showed that cement content below 4.5% in weight is a good
compromise between structural capacity and rigid pavement effect.

Overloading Impact on Pavement Design. Overloading is a major issue in China since
it creates significant damages to pavement structure also contributes to the number and
severity of traffic accidents. The current transport environment resulting from the
privatization of state owned transport companies has created excess transport capacity
and hence excessive competition, which has lowered prices especially in the heavy
transport sector. Hence, overloading became the natural response in an environment
which lacks proper enforcement of load limits. Engineers are considering over designing
pavement structure to minimize damages. However this may not be the best approach as
it may lead to more tolerance on overloading resulting in additional safety issues.

Intelligent Transport Systems. Even though many provinces in China are using state of
the art equipment, few provincial and municipal systems are well integrated. However,
the integration of various components of the system in Henan is very impressive and
could even be considered a success story in comparison with similar systems
implemented in North America or Europe.

Henan is also already planning to widen several expressways to eight lanes. It is noted
that: (i) these investments could potentially be delayed by optimizing the operation of
existing infrastructures through better use of ITS technologies. This would also
contribute to reduce transport related pollution (gas emissions, noise and particles); and,



                                              20

(ii) national, inter-provincial and municipal integrations of ITS systems remains a major
challenge as communications between stakeholders remain weak and a national ITS
architecture has not yet been established. The Bank should consider getting more
involved in strategic guidance on ITS at both National and provincial level.


7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower did not raise any substantive issues requiring comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                             21

                       ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING



(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal            Actual/Latest
         Components                     Estimate                Estimate              Percentage of
                                    (US$ millions)1/        (US$ millions)2/            Appraisal

INCREASED CAPACITY IN
MAIN CORRIDOR                               272.56                 267.52                 98.2%

IMPROVED
ACCESSIBILITY IN POOR                        40.55                    38.86               95.8%
COUNTIES
ENHANCED SECTOR
MANAGEMENT                                     3.42                    3.55               103.8%


          Total Baseline Cost               316.53                  309.93                97.9%

Physical Contingencies                       14.35                 N/A

Price Contingencies                          27.15                 N/A

          Total Project Costs               358.03                  309.93                90.6%
Front-end fee IBRD                             1.50                    1.50               100.0
   Total Financing Required                 359.53                  311.43                90.6%

Notes: 1/ The costs do not include interest during construction which was estimated at Appraisal to be
           US$15.8 million since the actual cost was not available at the time of the ICR preparation.
       2/ Contingencies are included in the actual component costs.



(b) Financing

                                                       Appraisal         Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds                Type of                                              Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing          Estimate             Estimate
                                                    (US$ millions) (US$ millions)           Appraisal

Borrower                                                      0.00               0.00            N/A
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                         150.00             123.10          82.1%
Development
Local Govts. (Prov., District,
City) of Borrowing Country                                 193.75             188.33          97.2%




                                                 22

                           ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

Part A: Construction of Expressway and Interconnecting roads. (PAD estimate
US$294.8 million including contingencies, ICR actual US$267.5 million)

The construction of the 95 km dual lane Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway, its interchanges
and interconnecting roads was completed in November 2003; one year late based on the
initial plan but two years before the initial loan closing date. The ZXE opened for traffic
in December 2003. All important E&M equipment were installed in the following
months. In addition to completing this important missing link of the NTHS, and reducing
travel time by 25% between Zumadian and Xinyang, the ZXE has contributed to
accelerate economic growth and improve traffic safety in the corridor.

At the end of 2004, a Bank supervision mission noticed that premature rutting was
occurring on some sections. Several studies were conducted to identify the cause and it
was later concluded that this was the result of the combined effects of poor mix-design,
high-temperature; overloading and poor quality control. An agreement was reached
between the HPCD, the contractors and the expressway operation company to implement
remedial measures which were completed before the loan closing date.

Traffic diversion to the expressway from the adjacent congested NH107 was slightly
lower than anticipated (58% vs. 60%). This has ensured traffic on both roads is at an
acceptable level of service.

Equipment for operation and maintenance of the ZXE was procured under the project and
put into use.

Part B: Local Road Improvement in Poor Counties (PAD estimate US$43.9 million
including contingencies, ICR actual US$38.9 million)

The LRIPC program was completed in December 2002 with the rehabilitation or
improvement of 373 km of local roads in the Zumadian and Xinyang prefectures. The
objective was to provide the rural population of eight poor counties in the prefectures
better access to transportation and communication, and to facilitate their economic
activities.

This investment contributed to reduced travel time, improved road safety, reduced road
closures, promoted the development of eco-tourism, as well as having a significant
impact on the economic growth of the villages and community along the project. One
good example is the recent development of the tourist industry and the significant social
benefits related to tea production and transformation around the Nanwan Reservoir area
near Xinyang.

Due to the success of this initial program, HPCD wanted to expand the work to 12
additional roads, however, this was not approved of by the DRC.



                                               23

Part C: Institutional Development and Reform Plan (PAD estimate US$3.42 million
excluding contingencies, ICR actual US$3.6 million)

C.1     Institutional Strengthening/Training

Domestic and international training programs were undertaken for the HPCD, Henan
Provincial Survey, Planning and Design Institute, and the Quality Control Management
Center. These addressed the areas of highway network planning, financing, management
and regulatory policy, construction and maintenance technology, management, and
environmental protection. The training was found by the HPCD to be very useful and
trainees are applying what they have learned. As an example, the Survey and Design
Institute of HPCD now regularly uses SHRP techniques and laboratory equipment for
Super-pave Design method.

C2.     Studies and Technical Assistance

Studies: A number of different studies and technical assistance activities were
successfully completed and the results put into use:

Pavement Performance of High Grade Highways: The study was undertaken to
improve semi-rigid base layer pavement design and performance. The study produced 11
separate technical reports of good quality. A detailed work plan for dissemination of the
research outputs, including publications, workshops and seminars, targeted audience,
application of the research results to guide pavement designs in Henan was also finalized
and partially implemented before the loan closed.

Road Management Improvement: This sub-component included the development and
implementation of computer based systems to carry out regular surveys of the network of
national and provincial highways in Henan and the establishment of annual and multi
year plans for effective management of road assets. The concepts and applied techniques
of road management at network level have been successfully introduced to Henan for
improvement of the current road maintenance practice through this technical assistance
programs.

A practical pavement management system has been developed with the aid of combined
international and local consultants. The system can be now used by the Highway
Administration Bureau (HAB) decision makers as a tool in the areas of database
management, pavement evaluation and determination of road network maintenance
programs, and further enhancements are possible in the future. A large scale program of
pavement condition surveys on the entire provincial network (about 18,000 km in total)
was conducted in 2004. On the basis of the data and information collected in 2004 and
2005, HAB was able to: (i) establish a sound databases from 2001 to 2004); (ii) apply
HDM-4 analysis functions in programming multi-year pavement maintenance treatments
under annual investment or performance target constraints (2004-2005); and, (iii) use the




                                             24

system as a support tool in decision process of road network maintenance and
rehabilitation programs (2005-2006).

HAB has developed a multi-year highway rehabilitation programs and a five-year
investment plans for preservation of the existing highway network with the use of the
resulting comprehensive pavement management systems. This resulted in a more
balanced provincial expenditure programs between new construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance and between classes of roads. HPCD also confirmed it intends to move
forward with the implementation of road asset management and maintenance of the
provincial high-grade highways level (about 4000 km) starting in 2007.

HPCD also implemented a significant shift for its intermediate maintenance work from
force account to contract based procurement. In 2005, all intermediate maintenance work
was procured on a lowest bidder basis compared to 30% in 1999. Responsiveness ratios
of maintenance programs remained below expectations as needed maintenance fund were
less than half actual needs between 2001 and 2005. Effectiveness of major maintenance
program remained above expectation for national highways (125%) and below
expectation for provincial roads (80%) which indicate a need for further training on
quality control and supervision of maintenance works at prefecture and county level.

Road Safety: Several good quality studies and reports were completed including the
"The study on Traffic Volume Counting System of Henan Province" and the "2003
Economic Losses of road Traffic Accidents in Henan Province". This last report
included 11 proposed recommendations including black spot treatment, management of
the ROW, etc. which were implemented and monitored subsequently on several national
roads in Henan under the National Traffic Safety Law with the contribution of police
departments.

Commercialization of Toll Highways: Yearly reports were submitted to the Bank
showing progress made in privatizing expressways. The commercialization of
expressway expanded continuously throughout the project life, with the construction of
nine new expressways initiated in 2005 for a total length of 570km. By the end of 2005,
12 expressways were opened to traffic, with total length of 760km and various financing
schemes (public, private, or a mix thereof). A new "Henan Expressway Regulation" was
issued in March 2005, in an attempt to clarify responsibilities between assigner and
assignee in the management of the expanding expressway network.

Henan-Hubei Trade Facilitation: The Henan-Hubei Trade Facilitation study as led to
the proposal and implementation of two Trade Facilitation Action Plan: TFAP 1 to be
implemented by HPCD and TFAP 2 to deal with all other issues which required inter-
departmental actions. The focus of these action plans was on the Zumadian - Xinyang
section of the NH107 highway which was the target of efficiency improvements. TFAP
2 on the other hand focused on enhancing the management of the transportation market
by the Transportation Administration Bureau (TAB) including staff training, rationalizing
passenger and freight terminals, training of team managers and administrators, devising
appropriate laws and regulations regarding cargo transit, prevention of overloading and



                                             25

transportation of hazardous and prohibited goods. Overlapping of responsibilities
between the HPCD, TAB and the police department impeded the implementation of
overloading prevention measures proposed under the TFAP 2.

Provincial Conceptual Framework for Traffic Engineering Systems: This study,
completed in 2002, has led to the integration of all expressway tolling systems in Henan.
The Wide Integrated Expressway Tolling System (WIETS) includes 2678 km of
expressways, 147 toll booths and is operated by 18 different agencies who are managing
30 specific expressway sections. A single `Smart Card' is used to access or exit the
entire Henan expressway system. Henan is planning to move to a third generation smart
card which would allow for added value, personal information and electronic toll
collection (ETC). This would reinforce measure already taken to reduce truck
overloading. The integration of various components of the system is very impressive and
could even be considered a success story in comparison with similar systems
implemented in North America or Europe.

C.3 Equipment for Institutional Strengthening

The project procured US$1.64 million of equipment (including IT, laboratory, survey and
maintenance related equipment) to help improve the quality and effectiveness of
construction and maintenance. Additional equipment (totaling US$11.73 million) to
support institutional development objectives, following the August 2005 loan amendment,
was not procured.




                                            26

   ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (INCLUDING ASSUMPTIONS IN THE
                                         ANALYSIS)

Table A3.1 is a summary of the economic and financial analysis results.

                 Table A3.1: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                                 ICR                                    PAD
                           ENPV               FNPV                 ENPV              FNPV
                 EIRR      (12%,     FIRR     (4.7%,     EIRR      (12%,   FIRR     (6.0%,

                  (%)        m        (%)       m         (%)        m      (%)       m
                           RMB)               RMB)                 RMB)              RMB

 Zumadian-
 Xinyang                                                                  9.2       923.9
 Expressway      19.7     1,747.1   11.2     1,916.7     19.0     1,246.5
 Local Road
 Improvement in
 the Poor
 Counties
 (LRIPC)         29.5       570.7   --       --          30.9     415.0   --        --

 Total project   21.0     2,317.8   --       --          20.5     1,660.0 --        --



The ZXE opened in December 2003. As shown in Table A3.2, both the corridor traffic
and the ZXE traffic for 2006 were about 80% of the PAD's estimates. However, the
traffic growth rates for the corridor (9.1%) and for the ZXE (12.3%) during 2003-2006
were much faster then the PAD's estimate of 6.7% and 7.2%, respectively. The
expressway diversion ratio (the portion of the road users using the expressway) during
2003-2006 also improved from 55% to 58%, is similar to the PAD's projection (59-60%).
This reveals that the road users are gradually accepting the toll expressway concept.
Considering a lower total traffic demand on this corridor, the long ­term traffic forecast
of the corridor (2006- 2025) is estimated to be 3.7% (the PAD was 5.8%). For the new
expressway, the growth is estimated to be 6.2% reflecting the fast growth (12.3%) in
recent years (the PAD was 3.1%). For the old road, the traffic growth may be reduced to
3.0%, compared with the PAD's estimates of 5.1%. The expressway corridor traffic and
distribution between the old and the new highway are presented in the following table,
indicating PAD forecast and actual traffic census data.




                                             27

               Table A3.2: Number Of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2004-2025)
                                 ICR                                PAD
                   Old       New           Diversion    Old     New           Diversion
                  Road      Road     Total    ratio    Road    Road     Total    ratio
                   (1)       (2)    (3=1+2)  (4=2/3)    (5)     (6)    (7=5+6)  (8=6/7)
Zumadian ­ Xinyang Expressway (ZXE):
 2004           6,955      8,502   15,457  55%        8,090 11,720    19,810  59%
 2005           7,327     10,668   17,995  59%        8,580 12,560    21,140  59%
 2006           7,661     10,721   18,382  58%        9,100 13,460    22,560  60%
 2010           9,150     13,370   22,520  59%       11,510 17,750    29,260  61%
 2013           9,480     13,990   23,470  60%       13,730 21,830    35,560  61%
 2015          10,900     16,810   27,710  61%       15,000 15,390    30,390  51%
 2020          12,370     20,150   32,520  62%       18,730 19,230    37,960  51%
 2023          12,960     21,830   34,790  63%       21,390 37,820    59,210  64%
 2025          13,370     23,020   36,390  63%       23,380 42,210    65,590  64%
  Average growth pa
 2004-2006     5.0%       12.3%    9.1%    --        6.1%   7.2%      6.7%    --
 2006-2025     3.0%       4.1%     3.7%    --        5.1%   6.2%      5.8%    --

Sources: HPCD and the Bank staff.




                                             28

                            Table A3.3: EIRR (million RMB)
                     ZXE                     LRIPC                     Total
            Cost  Benefits Net flow   Cost Benefits Net flow   Cost  Benefits Net flow

2001      152.25          (152.25)                           152.25          (152.25)
2002      675.55          (675.55)   277.33 0.00   (277.33)  952.88          (952.88)
2003      837.45          (837.45)   80.10 49.89   (30.21)   917.55 49.89    (867.66)
2004      483.08 255.48   (227.60)   0.89  95.57   94.68     483.97 351.05   (132.92)
2005      91.95  300.27   208.32     0.89  96.83   95.94     92.84  397.10   304.26
2006      136.15 299.96   163.81     0.89  106.09 105.20     137.04 406.04   269.00
2007      5.93   341.36   335.43     0.89  112.89 112.00     6.82   454.25   447.43
2008      5.93   389.60   383.67     0.89  119.97 119.08     6.82   509.57   502.75
2009      5.93   446.04   440.11     0.89  127.33 126.44     6.82   573.37   566.55
2010      5.93   512.39   506.46     0.89  135.00 134.11     6.82   647.39   640.57
2011      5.93   572.01   566.08     0.89  142.30 141.41     6.82   714.31   707.49
2012      5.93   639.46   633.53     0.89  149.84 148.95     6.82   789.30   782.48
2013 /_1 5.93    715.85   709.92     9.96  166.71 156.75     15.89  882.56   866.67
2014 /_1 5.93    802.53   796.60     9.96  174.75 164.79     15.89  977.28   961.39
2015 /_1 65.58   901.04   835.46     0.89  174.00 173.11     66.47  1075.03  1,008.56
2016 /_1 65.58   976.17   910.59     0.89  181.72 180.83     66.47  1157.89  1,091.42
2017      5.93   1,057.82 1,051.89   0.89  189.64 188.75     6.82   1247.46  1,240.64
2018      5.93   1,146.58 1,140.65   0.89  197.75 196.86     6.82   1344.33  1,337.51
2019      5.93   1,243.10 1,237.17   0.89  206.08 205.19     6.82   1449.18  1,442.36
2020      5.93   1,348.05 1,342.12   0.89  214.62 213.73     6.82   1562.66  1,555.84
2021      5.93   1,441.85 1,435.92   0.89  222.30 221.41     6.82   1664.15  1,657.33
2022      5.93   1,543.02 1,537.09   0.89  230.12 229.23     6.82   1773.14  1,766.32
2023      5.93   1,652.19 1,646.26   0.89  238.09 237.20     6.82   1890.28  1,883.46
2024      5.93   1,770.09 1,764.16   0.89  246.19 245.30     6.82   2016.28  2,009.46
2025      5.93   1,897.51 1,891.58   0.89  254.44 253.55     6.82   2151.95  2,145.13

          FIRR =          19.7%                    29.5%                     21.0%
          NPV (4.7%) =    1,747.1                  570.7                     2,317.8

 1: Major maintenance.




                                          29

                                       Table A3.4: Income Statement (ZXE)
                                     (million RMB year ending 31, December)
                            2004     2005      2006  2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014
Traffic (million veh-km) 295.30 369.69 367.92 388.78 410.83 434.13 458.75 480.23 502.71 526.24 550.88

Revenue
 Tolls                   322.72 425.54 434.05 456.98 482.90 510.29 539.22 564.47 590.89 711.33 744.63
 Others                  7.37     8.90      9.08   9.56  10.10  10.67  11.28  11.81  12.36  14.88  15.58
 Total                   330.09 434.44 443.13 466.54 493.00 520.96 550.50 576.28 603.25 726.21 760.21

Operating Taxes
 Business tax            16.11    17.06     17.40  23.33  24.65  26.05  27.53  28.81  30.16  36.31  38.01
 City tax                1.13     1.20      1.22   1.63  1.73   1.82   1.93   2.02   2.11   2.54   2.66
 Education levy          0.48     0.51      0.52   0.70   0.74   0.78   0.83   0.86   0.90   1.09   1.14
 Total                   17.72    18.77     19.14  25.66 27.12  28.65  30.29  31.69  33.17  39.94  41.81

Net Revenue              312.37 415.67 423.99 440.88 465.88 492.31 520.21 544.59 570.08 686.27 718.40
Operating Costs
 Maintenance             18.35    43.34     44.20  53.07  58.88  65.33  72.49  79.68  87.58  96.26  105.81
 Administration          7.30     5.23      5.34   8.16   9.06  10.05  11.15   12.26  13.47  14.81  16.28
 Others                  4.16     2.38      2.43   4.08   4.53   5.03   5.58   6.13   6.74   7.40   8.14
 Total working costs     29.81    50.95     51.97  65.31 72.47  80.41  89.22  98.07  107.79 118.47 130.23
  Depreciation                -          - 70.86   70.29  70.45  70.61  70.78  70.96 71.15  71.34  71.55
 Total operating costs   29.81    50.95     122.83 135.60 142.92 151.02 160.00 169.03 178.94 189.81 201.78


Operating Profit         282.56 364.72 301.16 305.28 322.96 341.29 360.21 375.56 391.14 496.46 516.62
Financial charges:
  IBRD                   19.78    33.82     48.35  31.70 29.93  28.09  26.17  24.18  22.11  19.96  17.71
  Local Bank             40.55    37.40     16.53  16.53  16.53  16.53  16.53  16.07  11.02  11.02  10.10
  Others                 -        -         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -

Profit Before Taxes/1    222.23 293.50 236.28 257.05 276.50 296.67 317.51 335.31 358.01 465.48 488.81
 Income tax              75.92    100.10 77.97     84.83  91.25  97.90  104.78 110.65 118.14 153.61 161.31

Net Profit After Taxes   146.31 193.40 158.31 172.22 185.25 198.77 212.73 224.66 239.87 311.87 327.50

Actual: to 2006. Forecast: 2007 and thereafter.
1: Income tax rate = 33%.
2: Opened to traffic on December 2003.




                                                         30

                            Table A3.5: Sources and Applications of Funds (ZXE)
                                   (million RMB, year ending 31, December)
                     2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011                       2012   2013   2014

Sources:
Net profits         -      -      -      146.31 193.40 158.31 172.22 185.25 198.77 212.73 224.66 239.87 311.87 327.50
Depreciation        -      -      -      -      -      70.86 70.29 70.45 70.61 70.78 70.96 71.15        71.34  71.55
State contribution  34.23 152.54 191.78 116.35 21.03 32.97 -         -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Provincial
contribution        16.22 72.28 90.87 55.13 9.96      15.64 -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -

Borrowing: IBRD     52.72 234.93 295.37 179.20 32.38 50.80 -        -      -      -      -      -      -      -
      Local         18.71 83.40 104.85 63.61 11.50 18.03 -           -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Others              10.67 47.53 59.76 36.26 6.55       10.28 -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -

Total               132.55 590.68 742.63 596.86 274.82 356.89 242.51 255.70 269.38 283.51 295.62 311.02 383.21 399.05

Applications:
Capital expenditure 132.55 590.68 742.63 450.55 81.42 127.72 4.46    4.69   4.92   5.17   5.43   5.70   5.98   6.28
Other expenditure   -     -      -      -      -      -      10.92 15.72 15.63 15.51 15.38 15.22       15.03  14.77
Loan repayment:
IBRD                -      -      -      -      -      50.71 43.80 45.57 47.41 49.33 51.32 53.39        55.54  57.79
Local               -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      100.00 -      -      200.10
Change w/ capital   -      -      -      141.29 167.02 183.63 15.13 13.23 13.98 14.77 12.89 13.48       61.49  17.00

Total               132.55 590.68 742.63 591.84 248.44 362.06 74.31 79.21 81.94 84.78 185.02 87.79     138.04 295.94

Net Funds Flow      -      -      -      5.02  26.38 (5.17) 168.20 176.49 187.44 198.73 110.60 223.23 245.17 103.11

 Open balance       -      -      -      -      5.02   31.40 26.23 194.43 370.92 558.36 757.09 867.69 1090.921336.09
 Closing balance    -      -      -      5.02   31.40 26.23 194.43 370.92 558.36 757.09 867.69 1090.921336.091439.20

D/S Cover           -      -      -      -      -      4.5    5.5    5.6    5.7    5.7    2.0   5.8    6.9    1.5




                                                          31

                                 Table A3.6: Balance Sheet- Consolidated (ZXE)
                                    (million RMB year ending 31, December)
                          2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009   2010    2011    2012    2013    2014

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                  1916.41 1997.84 2125.55 2130.01 2134.70 2139.62 2144.79 2150.22 2155.92 2161.90 2168.18
 Less: Depreciation       -       -       70.86   141.15 211.60 282.21 352.99 423.95 495.10       566.44  637.99

Net fixed assets          1916.41 1997.84 2054.69 1988.86 1923.10 1857.41 1791.80 1726.27 1660.82 1595.46 1530.19

Current Assets
 Inventory                -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
 Receivable               344.38  553.05  345.23 373.23 394.40 416.77 440.40 461.02 482.60        580.97 608.17
 Cash                     5.02    31.40   26.23   194.43 370.92 558.36 757.09 867.69 1090.92 1336.09 1439.20

Subtotal                  349.40  584.45  371.46  567.66 765.32 975.13 1197.49 1328.71 1573.52 1917.06 2047.37

Other Assets              -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -

Total Assets              2265.81 2582.29 2426.15 2556.52 2688.42 2832.54 2989.29 3054.98 3234.34 3512.52 3577.56

Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity      924.22  1148.72 1236.17 1397.47 1567.00 1750.14 1947.36 2056.64 2381.29 2678.13 2790.76

L/T loans: IBRD           755.78  812.86  762.79  718.99 673.42 626.01 576.68 525.36 471.97       416.43  358.64
Local                     300.00  300.10  300.10  300.10 300.10 300.10 300.10 300.10 200.10       200.10  200.10

Subtotal                  1055.78 1112.96 1062.89 1019.09 973.52 926.11 876.78 825.46 672.07      616.53  558.74

Current Liabilities       285.81 320.61   127.09 139.96 147.90 156.29 165.15 172.88 180.98       217.86  228.06

Other Liabilities         -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -

Total Liabilities & Equity2265.81 2582.29 2426.15 2556.52 2688.42 2832.54 2989.29 3054.98 3234.34 3512.52 3577.56

Debt: Capital ratio       53.3    49.2    46.2    42.2    38.3    34.6    31.0    28.6    22.0    18.7    16.7
Debt/ equity ratio        59/41   56/44   49/51   45/55   42/58   38/62   35/65   33/67   26/74   24/76   22/78
Current ratio             1.2     1.8     2.9     4.1     5.2     6.2     7.3     7.7     8.7     8.8     9.0




                                                       32

                    Table A3.7: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts (ZXE)

1. Traffic (AADT):
                   Small   Medium Large        Small     Medium    Large     Tractor
                   car     Bus     bus         truck     truck     truck     -Trailer Total
   1. Zumadian - Queshan
      2004         1,727   186     279         282       2,043     2,265     1,894    8,676
      2005         2,989   180     270         422       3,356     1,191     2,557    10,965
      2006         3,425   217     325         522       2,658     1,692     2,591    11,430
      2010         4,324   264     395         634       3,231     2,136     3,271    14,255
      2015         5,519   321     481         771       3,931     2,726     4,175    17,924
      2020         6,715   372     558         894       4,557     3,317     5,080    21,493
      2025         7,785   411     616         987       5,031     3,845     5,889    24,564
   2. Queshan - Minggang
      2004         1,672   212     317         272       1,951     2,246     1,828    8,498
      2005         2,899   176     265         396       3,267     1,169     2,463    10,635
      2006         3,348   220     330         489       2,583     1,658     2,505    11,133
      2010         4,227   267     401         594       3,140     2,093     3,163    13,885
      2015         5,395   325     488         723       3,820     2,671     4,037    17,459
      2020         6,564   377     566         838       4,428     3,250     4,912    20,935
      2025         7,609   416     625         925       4,889     3,768     5,694    23,926
   3.Minggang - Xinyang
      2004         1,348   177     266         289       2,006     2,343     1,903    8,332
      2005         2,461   171     257         394       3,282     1,228     2,611    10,404
      2006         2,245   196     294         371       2,404     1,611     2,478    9,599
      2010         2,834   238     357         451       2,922     2,034     3,128    11,964
      2015         3,617   290     434         549       3,555     2,596     3,992    15,033
      2020         4,401   336     503         636       4,121     3,158     4,857    18,012
      2025         5,102   371     555         702       4,550     3,661     5,631    20,572


                                  RMB/v-
2. Toll rate               1.20 km          , increase 15% every 5 years.

3. Operating Taxes
      Business tax         5.0% of the total revenue.
      City tax             7.0% of the business taxes.
      Education levy       3.0% of the business taxes.

4. Operating Cost:               Increase 5 % pa.
      a. Maintenance       0.13   RMB/ v-km.
      b. Administration    0.02   RMB/ v-km.
      c. Others            0.01   RMB/ v-km.
      d. Depreciation      30    years straight-line method.

   Income tax
5. rate                    33%    of profit before taxes.

6. Borrowing:     The IBRD 4.00% , 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                  5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.
                  Local          , 11 years maturities with 2 lump sum principal
                  Bank     5.51% repayments.



                                             33

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES




(a) Task Team members


          Names                      Title                Unit Responsibility/
                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Jacques Tollie         Task Team Leader                  EASTR
Robin Carruthers       Transport Economist               EASTR
Han-Kang Yen           Research Analyst                  EASTR
Claude Salem           Institutional/Training Specialist EASES
Youlan Zou             Resettlement Specialist          EACCF
Soichiro Seki          Environment Specialist            EASES
Lutfallah Tueni        Consultant                        EASTR
William Paterson       Lead Infrastructure Specialist    EASTR
Maria Luisa Juico      Program Assistant                 EASTR
Setty Pendakur         Consultant                        EASTR
Dawei Yang             Procurement Specialist           EACCF
Youhua Yu              Financial Management Specialist EACCF

Supervision/ICR
Sreypov Tep            Program Assistant                 EASTE
Alain M. Dube          Sr. Transport Specialist          EASTE
Christopher R. Bennett Sr. Transport Specialist          EASTE
Chongwu Sun            Sr. Environmental Specialist     EASRE
Dawei Yang             Procurement Specialist           EAPCO
Zhefu Liu              Sr. Resettlement Sec.            EASSO
Ningyuan Li            Consultant                        EASTE
Pan Yuli               Consultant                        EASTE
Michel Savard          Consultant                        EASTE
Alberto F. Nogales     Consultant                        EASTE
Jacques M. Tollie      Consultant                        EASTE
Youlan Zou             Consultant                       EASUR
Setty Pendakur         Consultant                        EASTE




                                       34

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                              No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)


Lending

  FY99                             N/A                        92.01
  FY00                               43.29                   183.25
  FY01                                 0.22                    1.18
  FY02                                                         0.00
  FY03                                                         0.00
  FY04                                                         0.00
  FY05                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                         0.00

                       Total:        43.51                   276.44
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                         0.00
  FY00                                 0.38                    0.64
  FY01                                 9.88                   56.95
  FY02                               11.65                    60.52
  FY03                               10.95                    62.24
  FY04                                 9.54                   68.43
  FY05                                 3.63                   60.54
  FY06                                 9.19                   93.06
  FY07                               13.02                    66.11
 Total:                              68.24                   468.49




                                  35

                 ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

Not applicable




                                  36

             ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

Not applicable.




                                   37

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

A7.1 Background of the Project

Located in the south of Henan Province and with a total length of 95 km, the ZXE (From
Zumadian to Xinyang City) is one section of Jinggang'ao trunk line of national highway
network (Beijing--Zhuhai trunk line of national highway). It links Luohe-Zumadian
Expressway in the north and runs along the east side of Jingguang (Beijing--Guangzhuo)
Railway, passing through Yicheng district of Zumadian City, Queshan County and
Pingqiao district of Xinyang City.

In the preparation period of the Project in 2000, the other sections of Jinggang'ao trunk
line of national highway were under operation or construction. Thus it was very urgent
and necessary to construct ZXE as soon as possible. The implementation and
construction of the project was of great importance to the improvement of the investment
environment of Zumadian and Xinyang cities, further opening to the outside world,
facilitating the economic, cultural exchange between Henan Province and Central and
South China, promotion to the prosperity of the corridor area and the development of the
society. Therefore it was listed as a key project by the Ministry of Communications and
Henan Provincial government, and named as the Henan Highway Project III by the
World Bank.

The ZXE project began construction September 26, 2001. With the support of
governments at all levels and the cooperation of masses, it was completed on November
28, 2003. On December 27, 2006, the project was checked and accepted by Henan
Provincial Communications Department entrusted by the Ministry of Communications.

A7.2 The Objectives of the Project

The primary objectives of the project were as follows:

    · to support the sustainable development of the Henan provincial highway
        infrastructure, reduce traffic congestion, and enhance interregional trade
        facilitation so as to promote socio-economic development;
    · to help Henan Province implement the poverty reduction and development policy,
        providing better access to impoverished areas;
    · to enhance institutional capabilities of the Henan provincial highway departments;
        and
    · to improve road traffic safety performance of Henan Province.

A7.3 Project Components

The project consisted of the following three components:




                                             38

Expressway Construction

The Zumadian--Xinyang Expressway: A four-lane expressway, with a total length of
95.73 km and a design speed of 120km/h between Zumadian and Xinyang. This included
mechanical and electrical equipment for the supply and installation for four toll stations,
six telecommunication stations, a monitoring sub-center, a toll sub-center, a
telecommunication sub-center as well as construction of service areas, management and
maintenance houses.

Expressway Interconnecting Roads: To construct, reconstruct and upgrade three
connecting roads, with a total length of 50.6 km, linking the ZXE to the local road
network. Due to the rapid development of the Henan road network, the planned
interconnecting roads in Minggang and Fengjiatang were removed fro the project and
completed with the HPCD's own funds. This reduced the length of the other three
connecting roads to 29.5 km.

Construction Supervision: The construction supervision was carried out by two parties:
one domestic and one American. In the opinion of the Commission of Completion
Inspection, the supervision programs were properly carried out and the engineering
quality, schedule and investment were effectively controlled and a good job was done in
fulfilling the supervision contract.

Road Improvement and Poverty Reduction

This component improved and reconstructed 373 km of six rural roads and four poverty
reduction roads in impoverished counties of Zumadian and Xinyang cities.

Institutional Strengthening

To strengthen the HPCD and the related organizations under its administration by
personnel training and procurement of equipment, and conducting research into highway
quality and management improvements, asphalt pavement, highway commercialization,
traffic safety, trade facilitation, and post assessment for poverty reduction projects, so as
to help HPCD strengthen its institutional construction and improve its management.

Domestic training of 281 persons and 281 man months, overseas training of 48
persons/34 man months were completed. The trainees learned the advanced technologies
and management experiences in developed countries. Through this, the operational skills
and techniques of engineering and management personnel have been greatly improved.
Through the training program the overall management abilities of the HPCD have been
strengthened.

The procurement of the equipment in the project played an important role in
strengthening and improving the institutions under the administration of HPCD.




                                                39

A7.4 Safeguards

The following table summarizes the land acquisition and resettlement results:


                                                 ZXE                 Connecting road/improvement

             Contents                                                            plan
                                       Planned                         Planned
                                       number       Actual number      number       Actual number

Land expropriation (mu, 15 mu
equals one hectare)                     9078.3           9103.4          742             414

house demolitionsquare meter            31752            31977           2543           7242
Number of affected households            225              281            685             387

The report from inspection unit shows that the construction of infrastructure and service
facilities in affected villages improved the life of villagers. Now the average floorage has
increased by 4.4% and the average income increased by over 10%.

During the period of implementation and operation of the Project, professional
environment protection institutions monitored each environmental indicator, especially
that of schools, hospitals, etc. along the highway. Regular reports on environment
monitoring were submitted to the HPCD and the World Bank. Any problems encountered
were addressed in a timely manner. The implementation completion report of
environment protection shows that the investment of the Project involving environment
protection amounted to over US$43 million and the environment along the ZXE had been
effectively protected and improved during the period of implementation of the project.

A7.5 Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Project

The completion of ZXE made the Jinggang'ao trunk line of national highway network
fully operational and transport capabilities greatly improved along the whole line.

The LRIPC road conditions in the corridor areas before the implementation of the project
inhibited the development of the local economy. With the project completed, the rural
roads have been upgraded and can be used in almost all weathers. Currently, the traffic
conditions in the corridor areas have been greatly improved for the connection between
the provincial highway and rural roads, and a road network has been formed. Therefore,
traffic conditions are much better than ever before, and the quantity of vehicles and
traffic volumes have significantly increased.

The construction of the ZXE effectively promoted the economic development of the
corridor areas. The development indicators show that the economy of the influence area
has been increased rapidly, and so it is with the GDP. In 2004, the GDP in the corridor of
Zumadian and Xinyang surpassed the predicted value by 15.5%, and 18.7% in 2005.
With the development of highway network, it will be more and more evident to see its
function of facilitating the formation of industrial belts along the highway and the
promotion to the development of local economy.




                                              40

Traffic safety was improved through the project's investments with the rate of injuries
and fatalities decreasing by 48% and 220% respectively.

The implementation of institutional strengthening, personnel training and the introduction
of new technologies and equipment improved management operations and effectiveness.
Furthermore, the studies conducted helped to improve the engineering quality, promote
the inter-provincial trade and provide Henan with a scientific management approach
towards road maintenance.

A7.6 The Influence of the Project on Henan Institutions

The main function of communication departments has been strengthened and service
conditions improved by institutional strengthening, personnel training and scientific study.

The project improved the ICT infrastructure of the HPCD. This enabled the rapid
exchange of documents and information through the comprehensive office network and
e-mail. Network services are provided to communication departments of 18 prefectures
and cities and affiliated units of the whole province. The service standard to public has
been significantly improved.

The HAB were provided with a modern road management system. The activities
improved highway management, and the efficiency of road maintenance management
was also improved. The management of traffic safety was improved by the
implementation of the traffic safety study. This has contributed to a reduction in traffic
accidents throughout the province.

The construction quality inspection measures and capabilities have been enhanced
through institutional strengthening and equipment procurement. By using advanced
inspection equipment, the range of inspections have been increased, inspection efficiency
improved, and monitoring strengthened. This has improved quality inspection and
controls for all expressways in the province.

The Henan Provincial Communications Planning Survey and Design Institute have
improved their survey and design activities, and thus the quality of road construction has
been improved, through the application of the SHRP experimental inspection system,
personnel training, and the adoption of super pave design methods.

A7.7 The Assessment of the Sustainability of the Project

With the completion of the ZXE, the full operational capability of the Jinggang'ao trunk
line of national highway network was achieved and the national highway network
improved. Therefore, traffic conditions in the corridor have been greatly improved and
traffic congestion in the corridor relieved. The project has made an important
contribution to the economic and social development. In addition, the implementation of
rural road construction on 373 km of rural roads has provided greatly improved local




                                             41

access. Thus the economic development of the areas along the corridor has been
promoted.

Effective measures were taken to prevent the pollution of noise, air, water and soil
erosion and water loss, and great importance attached to the harmony to ecology and
surroundings. Thus, the environment along the line has been effectively protected while
the traffic condition improved.

Through strict management during the construction period, the engineering quality of the
project was effectively controlled. Since its operation, the highway is in good condition,
and this has laid a solid foundation for a long term operation.

Since the highway opened, the Henan Expressway Development Co. Ltd has adopted
standardized management. The automation and working skills of management personnel
have been greatly improved through the procurement of equipment and personnel
training.

The financial performance is very satisfying. Since opening, the traffic volume and
income have been gradually increasing. The satisfying financial condition ensures a
long-term operation and repayment to the loan on schedule.

The results of the studies have provided important guidance to new policies. The Central
Government and local government of Henan Province have issued laws and regulations
which ensure the development of roads, such as Law of Roads, Management Regulations
on Toll Roads, Regulation on Henan Highways, etc. which guide the road planning,
construction maintenance, toll management, etc.

A7.8 Asset Operation and Maintenance in the Future

The Henan Expressway Development Co. Ltd established its operation management
institution--the Zumadian-Xinyang Expressway Construction Company (ZXECC) at the
end of 2003, which recruited and trained various kinds of personnel and was well
prepared for the management and maintenance of the highway. They have established
management institutions, trained personnel, established new regulations, standardized toll
management, established and implemented programs for maintenance management,
maintaining the property right of the highway, ensuring safe operation, etc.

The management system for bridges and pavements was established and improved with
the help of the HDM4 study, and regular inspections. This has helped establish the
maintenance plan and schemes of pre-maintenance, rehabilitation and maintenance.
While establishing the maintenance system, Zhu-Xin Branch conducted technological
training to maintenance personnel, carried out the policy of putting prevention first and
combining prevention and maintenance. Maintenance is done according to Standardized
Maintenance methods of Henan Expressways.




                                             42

A7.9 The Assessment to Contract Fulfillment of the World Bank

The World Bank conscientiously fulfilled the loan and project agreements signed with
Chinese Government and Henan Provincial Government. The Bank worked out practical
targets and components for the project. It provided capable experts on engineering,
procurement, disbursement, etc. to guide and help the implementation of the Project. The
World Bank inspected the project regularly or irregularly. Problems identified were
solved in a timely manner.

With regard to the effective utilization of the project funds, and extension of closing date,
the World Bank had a good collaboration with HPCD.

During the period of project implementation, the change of the project manager did not
affect the normal operation of the Project.

A7.10 The Assessment to Contract Fulfillment of Debtors and Executive
        Institutions

The Chinese Government and Henan Provincial Government conscientiously fulfilled the
loan and project agreements signed with the World Bank, supported the work of all
stages, and achieved all anticipated targets of the Project.

All the components of the project have been completed according to the requirements of
the project agreement.

In the early period of project implementation, the HPCD summarized the experiences of
the former three projects of World Bank loans and made some adjustments in
organizational management. Additional personnel with procurement experience were
added to the organization. The procurement organization was adjusted to effectively carry
out all the procurement. The ZXE Construction Company was established to be in charge
of the construction of the expressway: A Manual of Financial Management and a Manual
of Procurement of World Bank Project were compiled so as to guide the work of each
procurement department; a personnel training related to the procurement, financial
management and engineering of the project was carried out.

During the period of project implementation, the HPCD submitted and implemented
working plans and guidelines on all items according to the requirements of the World
Bank and the commitments to the World Bank. The implementation reports of each
subproject were submitted according to the requirements of World Bank Inspection
Team; the procurement of the project was carried out in terms of the procuring process
and principles of the World Bank. No complaints were received.




                                              43

A7.11 Experiences and Lessons

Experience

The project conformed to the situation of China and could meet the needs of economic
development. The completion of ZXE made the Jinggang'ao trunk line of national
highway network achieve full operational capability.

The loan from the World Bank was utilized to make up the inadequacy of funds in
domestic highway construction.

The implementation of the project promoted the standardized management of engineering
quality, engineering schedule sand disbursement of the highway construction.

The Post Assessment Report of rural roads improvement engineering submitted by the
study team of Post assessment of Poverty Reduction Project was accepted and
recommended as a reference mode for the similar assessments by the World Bank. In
addition, the implementation of HDM4 moved road maintenance planning into having a
scientific basis.

The function and the quality of personnel of highway management departments have
been enhanced and improved by institutional strengthening and personnel training.

The construction supervision was successfully carried out through the cooperation of
Sino-foreign parties.

Lessons

The amount of the World Bank loan could not be fully utilized due to too many funds
reserved for future.

The procedures for withdrawing money need to be improved.




                                           44

  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


Not applicable.




                                 45

                 ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1. The World Bank, Third Henan Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document
    (No. 20193-CHA), April 15, 2000

2. The World Bank, Third Henan Highway Project: Loan Agreement (No 4548-
    CHA) between the People's Republic of China and the International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development, February 5, 2001

3. The World Bank, Third Henan Highway Project: Project Agreement (No 4548-
    CHA) between Henan Province and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
    Development, February 5, 2001

4. The World Bank, Letter of Amendment and Extension of Loan Closing Date,
    October 12, 2005

5. The World Bank, Back to office reports and Aide-Memoires of the Third Henan
   Highway Project from 1999 to 2006

6. The World Bank, Project Status Report for the Third Henan Highway Project
   from 2000 to 2006

7. The Communication Scientific Technique Academy of Henan Province, Henan-
    Hubei Trade Facilitation Study Action Plan ­ Summary Report, November 2006

8. Henan Provincial Communication Department and Henan Weiteng Technology
    Development Co, Ltd, Road Management Improvement Study ­ The Final
    Summary Report, May 2006.

9. Henan Provincial Communication Department and Henan Weiteng Technology
    Development Co, Ltd, HDM4 Application in Henan Highway ­ Long/Medium
    Term Analysis ­ Regional and Project Level Study ­ Final Report, May 2006.

10. Henan Provincial Expressway Development Ltd and Henan Communication
    Science Research Institute, Study of commercialization of Toll Highways ­ Final
    Report, November 2006

11. Henan Communication, Science and Technology Research Institute, 2003 and
    2004 Economic Losses of Road Traffic Accident in Henan Province, December
    2004 and May 2006

12. Henan Communication, Science and Technology Research Institute, Henan
    Province Traffic Volume Counting System Research, December 2004

13. Henan Provincial Communication Department, Implementation Completion
    Report and Summary, February 2007.


                                       46

