Document of
The World Bank                  FILE lCOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3052 KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN
TO THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
April 28, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Currency unit: Won
US$1.00         =   W 650
US$1 million   =   W 650 million
Won 1               US$0.0015
Won 1 million  =   US$1,538
Won 1 billion  =   US$1.54 million
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    =  3,000 pyeongs
1 pyeong           =  3.3 sq m
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
CNB    -   Citizens National Bank
KDB    -   Korea Development Bank
KLB    -   Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
MCI    -   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
NIF    -   National Investment Fund
SMIB   -   Small and Medium Scale Industry Bank
SMIPC  -   Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB)
Amount:                $60 million equivalent
Terms:                 The proposed loan will bear interest at 9.6% p.a.,
amortization to conform substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed loan. The maximum repayment period would
be 15 years, including three years of grace.
Relending Terms:       SMIB will onlend the proceeds of the loan to sub-
borrowers at an interest rate of 11.6% p.a., for
a maximum period of 13 years, including 3 years of
grace. Subborrowers will assume the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:  The proposed loan would be used to help cover the
foreign exchange requirements of subprojects to be
financed by SMIB over the next two years. Apart from
direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange
components of domestically produced capital goods
(estimated at 60%). The proposed loan would assist
SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy
of increasing the productivity of Korea's small and
medium scale industrial sector which plays a vital role
in providing employment opportunities and in assisting
the country's export effort. It will also initiate an
attempt to improve and expand extension services for
the SMI sector. There are no special risks associated
with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Estimated Disbursements:   Bank FY   1982         1983    1984    1985
…------ ($ million) -------
Annual             9.2    33.0    13.5       4.3
Cumulative         9.2    42.2    55.7    60.0
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 3382-KO, dated April 24, 1981



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FOURTh LOAN
TO THE SHIALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommaendation on a proposed
fourth loan to the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), with the guarantee
of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $60 million. The loan will
bear interest at 9.6% p.a., and will be amortized substantially in accordance
with the aggregate of the amortization schedule applicable to the specific
investment projects financed out of its proceeds. The maximum repayment
period applicable to subborowers would be 13 years, including three years of
grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of SecM180-449, dated May 20,
1980. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past-Performance and Emerging Structural Problems
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, the country was suffering from the
typical vicious circle of poverty. GNP was about $80 per capita and exports
only $41 million. During the following 16 years, 1962-78, real GNP grew by
9.3% p.a., exports by 25% p.a., and industrial production by about 16% p.a.
By 1978, per capita GNP exceeded the thousand dollar mark, merchandise exports
were above $12 billion, the net foreign capital inflow was only about 15% of
total imports, the rate of unemployment was down to 3.2% and the ratio of
population below the poverty level was estimated to be under 15%.
4. Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of growth between 1973 and 1978
despite a total dependency on imports for its petroleum needs and the quad-
rupling of oil import prices between 1972 and 1974. Korea's oil import bill
grew to $1.0 billion in 1974, absorbing 22% of export receipts. The terms of
trade worsened by about 21% between 1972 and 1974 leading to slightly over 4%
of GNP loss. In spite of this, Korea succeeded in maintaining a GNP growth
rate of 8% in 1974 and about 11'% p.a. during 1974-78. Notwithstanding the
recession in developed countries and growing protectionism, Korea's exports
grew by 24% p.a. during 1974-78. The ratio of foreign savings to GDP rose
from about 5.9% in 1973 to 11.6% in 1974 and declined to 4.3% in 1978.
Throughout this period, the rate of unemployment continued to decline and the
investmentincome ratio during 1974-78 was higher (29%) than during the
preceding five years (26%).
/1 This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the National Urban Land Development and Housing Project (No.
P-3017-KO dated April 9, 1981), which was distributed under cover of a
memorandum dated April 9, 1981.



- 2 -
5.        Among the policy instruments which contributed to Korea's success in
very rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis were: (a)
increased borrowing from abroad in order to maintain the momentum of growth;
(b) devaluation in 1973 and 1974; (c) restraint in wage increases in 1974 and
1975 when real wages in mining and manufacturing increased by 5.1% p.a. and
labor productivity by 10.5% p.a.; (d) an increase in government savings from
2.2% of GNP in 1974 to 4.9% of GNP in 1978; and (e) continued emphasis on
export diversification in products as well as markets. In addition to these
policy adjustments, the Korean economy also gained from (a) an improvement in
terms of trade and (b) a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts
which stood at $15 billion at the end of 1978 and yielded gross earnings of
about $2.2 billion.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
exports, investment and growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy.
Between 1975 and 1978 the real domestic demand (consumption, investment and
exports) expanded by 15%. Both the volume of exports and the level of real
fixed investment doubled over these three years and purchasing power of
exports improved as terms of trade showed a recovery of 37%. Such a rapid
expansion in demand, along with multiplier effects understandably created
bottlenecks in the economy and fueled inflationary pressures. Labor markets
witnessed a major transformation in this period. Non-agricultural employment
expanded by 27% between 1975 and 1978, and employment in the critical con-
struction sector increased by 55% during this period. Reflecting the tight-
ening of the labor market, money wages in manufacturing increased by 33% p.a.
during 1977-79 and real wages clearly outstripped the growth in productivity.
The constraint on the supply of housing, together with fast accelerating
demand, led to very sharp increases in prices of dwellings. Structural
factors such as shifts in the pattern of demand and bottlenecks in the supply
of agricultural products such as meat and vegetables put further pressures on
consumer prices. The sharp rise in Korea's price level compared with the
major trading partners in turn eroded export competitiveness and led to a
major deterioration in the balance of payments. Only a part of the widening
of the current account deficit from $1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion in
1979 was attributable to an increase in the oil import bill. The basic
underlying factors were the stagnation in the volume of exports and rapidly
rising non-oil imports reflecting continuation of a major investment boom
until the third quarter of 1979.
7.        The difficult economic situation prevailing in 1979 was further
aggravated by the second oil crisis and the political problems emerging in
1979/80. As a result of the increase in the price of oil, Korea's annual oil
import bill rose from about $3 billion in 1979 to about $6 billion in
1980. The deterioration in the terms of trade amounted to a loss of GNP of
about 4% between 1978 and 1980. Moreover, the oil price increase contributed
to a slowing down of the growth rate of the industrialized countries and to an
acceleration of their rates of inflation. The prospects for world trade in
manufactures deteriorated and for an economy like Korea's, where growth has
been led by exports, this amounted to a significant worsening of growth
prospects. At the same time, the months between the October 1979 assassin-
ation of President Park and the inauguration of the present administration
last September were marked by a high degree of political uncertainty and civil
unrest.



8.         Under the combined impact of the adverse economic and political
events, the economy went into a recession- the seasonally adjusted GNP, as
well as nonagricultural GDP, declined in each of the last three quarters of
1979. Notwithstanding the recessionary tendencies wholesale and consumer
prices rose by over 18% during 1979, compared to a 12-14% increase during
1978. The current account balance of payments deficit widened sharply from
$1.1 billion in 1978 to $4.2 billion, or about 7% of GNP, in 1979. The nature
of the current economic difficulties and some key policy issues were reviewed
in the latest Bank economic report which concluded that in order to tackle the
serious problems created by the past structural imbalances and the oil crisis,
it would be necessary to adopt measures for a restructuring of the economy
aimed at improving efficiency, controlling inflation and improving the balance
of payments position. Among the needed measures that the report identified
were: (a) a review of the investment pattern in the heavy industries sector
(b) restructuring agricultural income support programs, (c) improved energy
efficiency through proper pricing as well as energy saving investments, and
(d) reform of the financial system. As noted below, the Government took a
series of measures in 1980 both to revitalize the economy and address the
structural issues. In spite of these measures, however, the rate of growth of
GNP in 1980 was negative (estimated at -5.7% of which about 4 percentage
points decline was due to the drop in agricultural production), the rate
of inflation (GNP deflator) about 30%, and current account deficit about $5.5
billion.
Policy Measures Taken in 1980
9.         In its attempt to correct the emerging structural imbalances and
to respond to the oil price hikes, the Government initiated a series of
policy actions in 1980, in three phases. At the beginning of the year,
within the overall framework of a "stabilization first" policy, the
Government introduced changes in the exchange rate, interest rates and
energy prices in order to respond to the changing structure of international
prices. In June, the Government moved to increase public expenditure and
relax credit ceilings to tackle the growing problems of unemployment and
declining industrial production. The third phase came a few weeks after
the current administration took office in September 1980 and was character-
ized by a more active program for the revitalization of the economy through
promotion of exports and of the construction industry and consolidation of
the heavy industries sector through mergers. Prospects for the effective
implementation of this program are heightened by the fact that the new
Government includes a number of highly experienced and competent individuals.
The Prime Minister served in key Cabinet positions during most of the 1970s
and is identified with the formulation and application of the imaginative and
bold policies which enabled Korea to surmount the difficulties posed by the
first oil crisis of 1974/75. Some details of the measures adopted during
these three phases are noted below.
10.        Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Energy Prices.  In January
1980, the won was devalued by about 20% from W 484 to W 580 per US$1. This
was followed in February by a new exchange rate system under which the value
of the won would be determined on the basis of a basket of currencies
(consisting of SDR and a sub-basket of currencies reflecting the shares of
the countries in Korea's merchandise trade) although other factors such as



relative price movements could also be taken into account.  The new system
has given flexibility to Korea's exchange rate and the dollar value of the
won has declined by about 10% since February 1980. In January 1980, interest
rates were also raised by about 6 percentage points for most lending and
deposit rates. Subsequently there have been some minor downward adjustments
in interest rates; and, at present, the prime lending rate stands at 19.5%.
In response to rapidly rising oil import prices, the Government had already
raised domestic oil product prices by about 75% in 1979   In 1980 the prices
were raised again several times bringing the total increase to 227% between
July 1979 and November 1980.
11.       Demand Management.  At the beginning of 1980, the Government was
pursuing an extremely tight monetary policy. In spite of the substantial
increase in domestic prices, due to the energy price increases and devalua-
tion, the rate of growth of money supply (M2) was to be kcept at the
target of 20% in 1980. In order to restrain the budget deficit, Government
expenditures were to be cut back, with principal emphasis on reducing
expenditures with a low employment impact or high fuel or import intensity
However, by mid-year, concerned at the rising unemployment and declining
industrial production, the Government eased the monetary and fiscal squeeze.
In response to the Bank-s suggestions for flexible monetary policy and in
agreement with the IMF, the target growth rate of M2 for 1980 was raised
to 25%. Budget expenditures of W 112.7 billion frozen earlier were made
available for public works programs and additional credit was made available
for small and medium industries and for construction of housing units,
particularly for low-income families. Further incentives for residential
construction were given in September by reducing the rate of capital gains
tax on real estate transfer (from 50-80% to 35-75%), and increased funds
were made available to the Korea Housing Bank and the Korea Land Development
Corporation. To promote exports, loans per dollar of letter of credit for
exports were increased and the banks were asked to pool resources for
providing performance guarantees requested by domestic companies for
overseas construction contracts, and for helping exports of heavy and
chemical industries on a deferred payment basis.
12.       Protecting Livelihood of the Poor.  Throughout 1980, with growing
unemployment and rising prices, the Government adopted various measures
to alleviate the economic strain on the poor. Among these measures were:
expansion of public works programs; various subsidy schemes on essential
goods and services such as rice, coal briquettes and bus services; a program
for increasing imports of major grains and giving tariff reductions on some
essential commodities; and an increase in interest rates on special savings
programs for low income families.
13.       Industrial Rationalization Program.  The new administration has
moved to tackle the very difficult issues arising from recent excessive
investment in some heavy industries. It has issued instructions for
consolidation in six industries, namely, motor vehicles,/l power generation
/1 The plans for mergers in the motor vehicle industry have recently been
modified to allow two competing automobile manufacturers.



- 5 -
equipment, copper smelting, heavy electrical equipment, electronic switching
systems, and marine diesel engines. Since all these operations are
privately-owned, the mergers involve complicated changes in ownership,
licensing arrangements, contractual relationships and management patterns.
In a move to encourage greater equity financing, the Government will
disallow the treatment of interest payments as expenses in the calculation
of tax liability for firms which are already too heavily leveraged. The
larger companies will be required to register all land owned and the land
found unnecessary by the Government for the companies operations will have
to be sold and the proceeds of these sales used for improving debt-equity
ratios of these firms.
14.       Expansion of Social Development Expenditure.  The new administra-
tion proposes to expand rapidly expenditures in the areas of education,
housing, health and social welfare. It has announced a large increase in
enrollment quotas for higher education, reform of the private tutoring system,
and an expansion of the medical insurance program.
15.       The Government is in the process of formulating the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (FYP) which will cover the years 1982-86./l The objectives of the plan
are restoration of growth momentum along with equity through employment
generation and increased social development expenditures. The general
strategy is to increase efficiency of resource use by opening up the economy
to greater international competition, by liberalizing the financial system and
by promoting competition in domestic production and marketing.  The emphasis
on heavy and chemical industries would continue but will be combined with
efforts at consolidation of the industrial structure and promotion of science
and technology. Energy conservation and substitution for oil will receive
major attention. The income support program for the poor (including rural
income support programs) would gradually shift from generalized subsidy
programs to targetted investment and income transfer programs. There would be
greater efforts than in earlier plans on reducing regional imbalances, meeting
basic needs, tackling urban problems such as housing, transport and water
supply and environmental pollution and development of a social security
system.
External Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
/1 The Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed program for
assistance to the Fifth Plan formulation. This assistance involves
mobilizing some 30 foreign consultants to advise on some selected
aspects of the Plan and organizing training programs for Koreans
at selected institutions abroad.



for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and rapidly
growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods including
construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector. It is
generally recognized, however, that even with strenuous government efforts
for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve only over
a period of several years. The current account deficit in balance of
payments is expected to remain about $5 billion per year during the next few
years. Allowing for debt service and addition to reserves, the gross
external capital inflows required during 1980-81 are estimated to be about
$7.5 billion per year, of which about $1.3 billion could be expected from
public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF), and the rest
from private sources.
17.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will have
to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources. It
should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated levels of external
capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are a consequence of its
higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the domestic savings rate.
The ratio of foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the 1980s,
following the restructuring and readjustment planned for the next few years.
Servicing of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt
service ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the
proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. The projected ratio of debt service payments to total
export earnings is not expected to rise significantly above 16% during the
eighties.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of March 31, 1981, Korea had received 54 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,135.2 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$1,157.95 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. (Since
March 31, 1981 two loans to Korea totalling $140 million have been approved.)
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC
Investments as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
As indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, however, delays in several projects - irrigation, highways and
population have occurred due primarily to shortfalls in government budgetary
contributions. The costs of these and other projects with construction
components have risen significantly in the past several years.



- 7 -
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts:  (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining a
high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $145 million in Bank loans, excluding the proposed loan, for relending
to private industry and the Citizens National Bank $30 million to meet the
financial needs of the small enterprises. The primnary beneficiaries of these
loans have been the numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds
through the financial intermediaries. This has resulted in the overall
development of the industrial sector, and also contributed to the achievement
of institutional improvements as well as the Government's objective of
decentralizing industry.
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.        Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country



- 8 -
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system. A $50 million Bank loan was approved in April 1981 for a Third
Agricultural Credit Project.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support Government policy by financ-
ing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest
region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A third
loan for $90 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
25.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
December 31, 1980, entered into 29 commitments, totalling $69.4 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
26.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
27.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which Bank support has been
requested through a series of structural adjustment loans. The Bank is
currently reviewing this request. The maturity of many of the Korean
institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending
approach in some areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical
education approved in 1980 which will contribute to the modernization and
improvement of the system of higher technical education so as to increase its
flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
28.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by



the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for
agricultural marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further develop-
ment of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas,
which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
29.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program.
30.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1979 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 6/ at that time.  These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 6% respectively by the mid-198Us.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR -/1
The Industrial Sector
31.       Korea's growth strategy has been based on the expansion of indus-
trial activity with emphasis on the promotion of manufactured exports. The
growth of the manufacturing sector, at 18% p.a. over the period 1962-79, has
transformed a predominantly agricultural economy into one in which mining and
manufacturing play an important role and account for 34% of GNP.
32.       In the early 1960s, Korea's exports were insignificant.  In 1965,
commodity exports totalled $181 million, of which manufactures accounted for
just over half. By 1980, commodity exports reached $17.2 billion; 90% of
these consisted of manufactures representing 27% of manufacturing output.
Although Korea's export pattern continued to display a high degree of reliance
on a few labor-intensive traditional exports (textiles, clothing, footwear,
plywood and certain miscellaneous manufactures), there has also been a dis-
cernible movement in the direction of more sophisticated skill intensive
products. Items such as electrical machinery, machine tools, electronic goods
and components, and transport equipment (including ships), have been added to
Korea's range of exports. At the same time, the pursuit of backward linkages,
usually from export products, has enabled domestic production to replace
/1 This section is substantially similar to the corresponding one in the
President's Report on the Fourth Korea Development Bank Project
(No. P-2914-KO) dated December 1, 1980.



- 10 -
imports in certain sectors, e.g., textiles, apparel, sewing machines, certain
metal products and chemicals, and in particular segments of the basic metal,
petrochemical and machinery industries.
33.        Several factors have contributed to the remarkable performance of
the export-oriented industrial sector. They include: efficiency of factor
use in manufacturing; heavy investment outlays in industry with an average
real growth rate of about 15% p.a. during the last decade; rapid and steady
increases in productivity levels; and the combination of a flexible exchange
rate and export incentives which maintained the profitability of Korean
exports despite relatively high rates of domestic inflation.
34.       Manufacturing investment, which had been increasing at a rate of
13.3% in real terms over 1975-77, accelerated sharply by 63.4% in 1978. With
hindsight, it appears that the growth of manufacturing investment was too
rapid and concentrated excessively in capital-intensive industries (such as
heavy machinery and petrochemicals) resulting in a steep rise in capital
intensity of output as well as increased inflationary pressures in 1978-79.
The manufacturing growth rate of 10.6% in 1979 was about half that in 1978.
In 1980, a recession in the world economy, oil price hikes and a harvest
failure caused a sharp recession with a decline in industrial output of 1.2%
and in fixed capital formation of 14.7%. The Government believes that a
number of structural factors affecting the industrial sector have
contributed to the slowdown. For instance, overcapacity is now apparent in
some branches of heavy industry and real wage increases have outstripped
productivity gains since the mid-1970s and caused an erosion of Korea's
comparative advantage in labor-intensive manufactured exports. As stated in
paragraph 27 above, the Government has begun to formulate a structural
adjustment program, one of the main objectives of which will be to enable
the industrial sector to continue in its role as the major source of growth,
and the Bank has under review the Government s request for a structural
adjustment loan. The Government's plans to rationalize the structure of
heavy industry by promoting mergers of some of the firms involved and to
concentrate more heavily on the promotion of skill-intensive industries such
as engineering and electronics appear to be steps in the right direction.
Korea's well-trained labor force, the excellent record of its economic
management in adapting to changing circumstances, and the foothold it has
secured in growing markets such as the Middle East, augur well for its
industrial sector regaining its dynamism.
35.       The financial system has played a crucial role in Korea by
providing the financial support necessary to implement the Government-s
economic development strategy. For instance, the operation of the export
credit system under government control has been a vital ingredient of the
phenomenal export growth which has spurred the expansion of the economy
since the mid-1960s. The Government has effectively used the financial
system as a tool to implement its investment decisions in both the public
and private sectors.  The financial system is subordinate to government
directives and acts as a channel of subsidized finance for pre-identified



- 11 -
priority activities. The substantial degree of government control and the
large recourse to "subsidized/directed lending" has contributed towards the
creation of one of the major problems with which Korea is now faced, namely
overinvestment in certain segments of the manufacturing sector. The main
instrument used by the Government to effect the transfer of resources
towards the development of heavy manufacturing and chemical industries was
the National Investment Fund (NIF). Similar Government-sponsored funding
programs have been established to finance other industrial priority areas
such as machinery industries, small and medium industries, etc.   The
Government has recognized that this system of subsidized/directed lending
has led to suboptimal allocation of funds and has constrained the overall
efficiency of the financial system. Accordingly, a comprehensive reform of
the financial sector, with emphasis on liberalizing the operations of
intermediaries, was launched in 1980. In line with the increasing focus
of the Bank's lending on sectoral policy this program was discussed with the
Bank in the context of two recent lending operations to the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank (Loan 1932-KO) and the Korea Development Bank (Loan 1933-KO).
A package of specific policy measures has been agreed upon and aims at
reducing the scope and magnitude of subsidized lending and is expected to
improve efficiency in the financial sector.
36.       Export-led manufacturing growth will remain a key element in
Korea's development strategy. The Economic Management Plan for 1980-82
forecasts a 19% increase in exports in 1981 and a 21.4% growth in 1982 with
exports of heavy and chemical industries providing a good part of tihe
impetus. The devaluation of the Korean currency which took place in January
1980 and the shift to a system of floating exchange rates which has restored
the real effective exchange rate approximately to the level which prevailed
in the mid-1970s, should help make these targets attainable.
The Small and Medium Scale Industry (SMI) Sector
37.       In the Korean manufacturing sector, SMI enterprises are defined
as those with less than 300 employees or with total assets below W 500
million ($760,000). Although the role of the SMI sector in thie Korean
economy has declined steadily since the mid-1960s as a result of the rapid
industrialization process, SMIs still represent an important component of
industry. In 1978, their number exceeded 30,000 and they accounted for
96.5% of all establishments, provided a little under half of all employment
in industry, produced about 32% of industrial output and accounted for over
a third of value-added. Their export performance has also been impressive
since over 40% of Korea's manufactured exports originated in this sector
during 1976-78.
38.       Government efforts at building up heavy industry and raising the
productivity and technological levels of major producers constrained the
flow of capital and labor resources to the SMI sector during the period
1975-78. This retarded the pace of modernization in SMIs and led to a
widening of the factor productivity gap between large and small firms. The



- 12 -
rapid development of new technologies has also increased the demand for
skilled labor throughout industry and caused labor shortages in 1978-79.
Similarly, investment in the SMI sector, which had risen from 20% of manu-
facturing investment in 1975 to 27% in 1977, lagged behind in the following
years. Investment in light industry, although not directly comparable to SMI
investment, accounted for 40% of total manufacturing investment over the
period 1972-76 but reached only 20% in the period 1977-79. Higher investment
allocations to light industry and to the SMI sector would have helped improve
productivity in these sectors. Rising production costs and suboptimal
investment may, in part, be responsible for the recent slowdown in the growth
of light manufactured exports and the declining share of SMIs in total manu-
factured exports (from 40.5% in 1978 to 34.6% in early 1980).
39.       Government efforts to assist SMIs started in the early 1960s with
the establishment of the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), and of the
Small Industry Bureau in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI).  MCI
plays a central regulatory role in the formulation and implemention of
policies for the SMI sector. As the importance of the SMI sector's contri-
bution to generating employment outside the urban areas, to the growth of
exports, and to the deepening of the industrial structure through subcon-
tracting arrangements became more apparent, the Government broadened its
promotion efforts for SMI through the establishment of a comprehensive legal
and institutional framework.
40.       Recent government policies have become more selective with special
incentives granted to SMI enterprises in specific subsectors (e.g., machinery)
and greater emphasis given to improving productivity and modernization. At
the same time the Government has pursued policies which effectively increased
the protection of the SMI sector against competition from more efficient
producers through the designation by the Government of specific activities
reserved for the SMI sector and of specific products which large-scale pro-
ducers must subcontract to SMIs. The introduction of a well-designed incen-
tive system would seem to provide a better way of achieving development
objectives in the SMI sector rather than the present recourse to regulation.
A comprehensive study of Korea's industrial incentive system is currently
being discussed with the Government in the context of the Bank's economic and
sector work program.
41.       The Government has used its regulatory powers to direct credit at
specified (sometimes subsidized) interest rates to SMIs. For instance,
commercial banks are presently required to direct 35% and 55% of the increase
in their loan portfolio (respectively for nationwide and regional commercial
banks) to the SMIs. As a result of these and other measures taken over the
last 3-4 years, the apparent discrimination of the financial system against
SMIs which prevailed until the early 1970s has been largely eliminated. But,
whereas no bias is detectable in aggregate terms, the share of long-term
equipment lending in the total lending to SMIs (14%) remains insufficient,
relative to working capital finance. Recent government measures have not
adequately tackled the problem of increasing the flow of equipment finance to



- 13 -
SMIs. SMIB, with 64% of all equipment loans, is the major source of long-term
equipment loans for the sector. Equipment lending is particularly important
because it is only through capital investment that SMIs can improve their
productivity, cope with rising wages and maintain their market shares.
Increased equity financing would also be desirable in the SMI sector con-
sidering that the average debt/equity ratio was as high as 4:1 in 1978, mainly
on account of an excessive short-term indebtedness. The high indebtedness of
the SMI sector makes it particularly vulnerable to increases in borrowing
costs such as those which took place in 1980.
42.       Notwithstanding the success of its SMI sector policies, the Govern-
ment undertook a comprehensive re-examination of the system of financial and
nonfinancial assistance to SMIs in the mid-1970s, which led to the enactment,
in 1979, of the Small and Medium Enterprise Promotion Law. In accordance with
the provisions of the Act, the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
(SMIPC) was established: (a) to operate under the broad guidance of MCI as
the central agency for coordinating and executing the various promotional and
assistance activities; (b) to administer a SMI Promotion Fund created by the
Government to onlend funds to specific priority activities within the SMI
sector; and (c) to operate an institute for training extension agents and SrIl
entrepreneurs.
43.       The establishment of SMIPC was expected to lead to a comprehensive
reorganization of the system of extension services to SMIs whose performance
had deteriorated over time. Better coordination was required among the nine
technical assistance agencies involved and substantial improvements in the
qualifications of extension service officers were a prerequisite to increasing
acceptability of services by potential clients. This reorganization has not
taken place. SMIPC alone does not have the capability to carry out a review
of the present system and to prepare recommendations for its reorganization.
As indicated in paragraph 45 below, a major objective of the proposed loan is
to lay the basis for a comprehensive reorganization of SMI extension services.
To this end, the Government has agreed to carry out and complete, by December
31, 1981, a study of institutional arrangements for delivery of technological
and managerial assistance services to the SMI sector (Section 3.03(a) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). The Terms of Reference for the study were
finalized during negotiations. The findings of the study would be discussed
jointly by the Bank and the Government and the proposed measures implemented
in accordance with a timetable to be agreed with the Bank (Section 3.03
(b&c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The cost of the study would be met
from the Government-s own resources. The cost of consultant services is
estimated at about $6,700 per man-month for foreign consultants and about
$3,500 per man-month for local consultants.
44.       The Bank lending strategy in the industrial sector in Korea has
evolved in recent operations from a micro-institutional focus to a broader
macro-economic approach. Although resource transfer and institution building
objectives remain important, the Government's willingness to address directly
industrial and financial sector issues coupled with greater maturity in the
institutional framework made it possible for the Bank to broaden its lending



- 14 -
objectives. Lending operations are increasingly geared to providing a vehicle
for a closer involvement of the Bank in the restructuring of Korea's indus-
trial and financial sectors in response to a changing environment (See
para. 35). Lending through development finance companies is the main vehicle
for industrial lending with four loans ($352.5 million) made to the Korea
Development Bank (KDB), eight loans ($410 million) to the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank (KLB), three loans ($145 million) to SMIB and one loan to the
Citizens National Bank (CNB) ($30 million). The first loan to SMIB has been
fully disbursed and the Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared in
September 1980. All the principal Bank objectives concerning institution
building were met. The main lesson learnt from the first loan was the limited
geographical dispersal of SMIB loans. This issue has been addressed in
subsequent projects which specified numerical targets for portfolio
diversification, incorporated in successive SMIB Development Strategy
Statements. The progress in diversifying SMIB's portfolio would continue to
be monitored under the proposed loan (para 58).  The second loan is expected
to be fully disbursed soon.  The third Bank loan of $60 million (1749-KO)
became effective on September 26, 1979 and as of March 31, 1981, about $52.1
million had been committed. The proposed loan of $60 million would be the
fourth to SMIB. Unlike previous operations, the proposed loan is expected to
lay the basis for the longer term reform of nonfinancial support services to
industry by other Government agencies, which would complement the financial
support provided by SMIB.
45.       As indicated in paragraph 35 above, financial sector objectives form
the core of the two most recent Bank lending operations to KDB and KLB.
Similarly, the structural adjustment loan under preparation is expected to be
predicated in part on proposals for restructuring the Government's industrial
development strategy and policies. This approach still needs to be
complemented by a direct involvement in specific subsectors particularly where
new products and technologies are being developed.  The Bank is currently
considering projects for technology development and for the support of the
machinery industry which would emphasize skill development in Korean industry.
The proposed loan to SMIB is designed to supplement other efforts in the
industrial sector by transferring resources to enterprises operating at the
lower end of the industrial spectrum and by strengthening institutional
arrangements for the delivery of both financial and technical assistance. The
proposed loan is expected: (a) to augment SMIB's ability to provide long-term
financial resources in support of the modernization and greater efficiency of
production in the SMI sector; (b) to improve further the institutional
capability of SMIB by strengthening its appraisal capability as well as its
efficiency in the mobilization of diversified long-term resources; and (c) to
pave the way for a comprehensive reorganization of SMI extension services in
Korea.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was appraised in November 1980 and negotiations were
held in Washington between April 15 and 17, 1981. The Korean delegation was
led by FMr. Wei, Sung-Yong (Economic Counsellor, Korean Embassy). A report
entitled, "Korea - Staff Appraisal Report - The Small and Medium Industry
Bank " (No. 3382-KU), dated April 24, 1981 is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
SMIB's Role Within the Financial System
47.       The government-owned SMIB was established in 1961.  The Citizens
National Bank (CNB), which was created in 1963 has evolved into the other
specialized development bank servicing the lower end of Korea's SMI sector.
CNB concentrates on small industries employing up to 100 persons while SMIB is
authorized to finance enterprises employing up to 300 persons./l SMIB and CNB
provide both short to medium-term working capital and long-term equipment
loans. The other development banks which provide long-term financial assist-
ance to industry: KDB and the KLB, direct their lending for the most part to
large industrial enterprises. The Bank has provided financial support to all
four industrial development finance institutions (para. 44). The commercial
banks also provide substantial support to the SMI sector mainly in tne form of
short-term working capital.
SMIB's Legal Framework, Organization and Management
46.       The SMIB Act of 1961, the Presidential Decree enforcing the Act, and
the SMIB By-Laws constitute a comprehensive legal framework for SMIB's organi-
zation, policies, operations, administration and capitalization. SMIB's oper-
ations, financial performance and management are subject to scrutiny and
supervision by the Ministry of Finance. As a banking institution, SMIB is
further subject to the supervision of the Bank of Korea with respect to its
commercial banking activities.
49.       SMIB's management rests withi:  (a) a board of Policy, comprising
government officials and representatives of the SMI sector whose function is
to formulate lending policies and guidelines; and (b) a Board of Directors
which is a standing body of SMIB's senior management having executive author-
ity to act on important operational matters. SMIB's President is assisted by
a Deputy President and five Executive Directors, each of whom is responsible
for three to four of the eighteen head office departments. In addition to its
head office in Seoul, SMIB has 116 branches which handle loan processing and
have approval authority for foreign currency loans below $100,000 and domestic
/1 SMIB is authorized to finance enterprises with up to 500 employees
engaged in specific activities defined in the Small and Medium Industry
Promotion Act of 1979.



- 16 -
currency loans below W 50 million ($76,900). SMIB's nationwide network
enables it to reach SMI enterprises throughout the country.                   _
50.       As of September 1980, SMIB's staff numbered 4,815 with about 74%
assigned to the branches; senior professionals accounted for 24% of total
staff strength. Staff turnover has declined substantially in recent years and
reached only 6.4% in 1980. Despite a rapid expansion in its branch network
SMIB's administrative expenses have been maintained at a reasonable level.
Staff training is well-organized but is largely confined to commercial
banking techniques. There is a need for intensified training in the more
sophisticated techniques of subsector economic analysis and project evaluation
(see paragraph 52 below).
Operating Policies
51.       In 1969, SMIB's Board of Policy adopted a Policy Statement which
supplements the policy guidelines of the SMIB Act and outlines in more
specific terms its operating and financial policies and procedures. Since
1975, SMIB's short-term developmental objectives have been spelled out in a
series of Development Strategy Statements covering two-year periods. The
1982-83 statement was reviewed at negotiations and would emphasize: (a) the
promotion of higher efficiency and productivity of SMIs through investment in
modernization (to be complemented by a comprehensive program of action aimed
at reorganizing and improving extension services to the SMI sector); (b) staff
training in project appraisal, especially in upgrading standards for
appraising domestic currency equipment loans; and (c) diversification of
long-term domestic and foreign currency resources to augment SMIB's capability
to provide long-term investment capital to the SMI sector.
Lending Procedures
52.       SMIB's project appraisal procedures vary according to the type of
loan being considered. For working capital loans, lending decisions are
based on commercial banking criteria. The appraisal procedures applied for
domestic currency equipment loans are also largely based on commercial banking
practices with limited reliance on project appraisal techniques. This prac-
tice, apart from the concern for speedy loan processing, is due to the fact
that, under the government-sponsored system of directed/subsidized lending,
the terms (lending rate, duration and maximum amount) of domestic currency
loans are predetermined by the Government on the basis of the project's
assigned priority. This type of government control over lending decisions
limits the effect of detailed project analysis. Improvements can be expected
in the appraisal standards of Korean financial institutions, including SMIB,
when the Government implements its new policy of liberalizing the operations
of the financial system and reduces the scope and magnitude of subsidized
directed lending. The outline of such a policy was agreed upon in the context
of the two loans to KDB and KLB, approved in December 1980 (see paragraph 35
above). This transition will, however, require considerable investment in
staff training. To improve the quality of SMIB's appraisal, the Bank reviewed



- 17 -
with SMIB at negotiations its plans for upgrading the appraisal capability of
its staff as a specific element of its ongoing training program.
53.       SMIB's appraisal of foreign currency loans is satisfactory with
appropriate analysis of the financial and economic viability of the projects.
Full appraisal reports, including the computation of financial and economic
rates of return, are prepared by SMIB for subprojects exceeding the $500,000
free limit imposed by Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Bank. For sub-
projects below the free limit, however, SMIB applies simplified appraisal
methods. It was agreed under the last two Bank loans that SMIB's Research
Department would undertake subsector studies which would assess sectoral
priorities and prospects as a substitute for detailed economic appraisal of
individual subprojects. There is, however, scope for strengthening the sector
work carried out by SMIB's Research Department and for better integration in
SMIB's appraisal process. SMIB has been informed that, in the course of Bank
supervision, specific attention will be given to the thoroughness of appraisal
reports on subprojects below the free limit and efforts to apply the fruits of
SMIB's research work in an operational context.
54.       SMIB's project supervision work is sound and is largely responsible
for the good quality of the loan portfolio and the low level of arrears. An
excellent follow-up reporting system which allows systematic comparison
between expected and actual project performance has been developed.
55.       SMIB's procurement procedures conform to government guidelines and
to the special requirements of small firms and have generally ensured
efficient use of Bank funds. While procurement is normally based on limited
competitive bidding procedures with three to four quotations from potential
suppliers, in some cases, however, SMIB has been following procurement
procedures which did not always ensure a satisfactory degree of competition.
At negotiations, it was agreed that, in utilizing the proceeds of the proposed
loan, SMIB would follow procedures to ensure that an adequate degree of
competition exists in the procurement of equipment in all cases (Section 3.02
of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, it was agreed that SMIB would
describe in its project appraisal reports, the procurement method envisaged
for the project (Section 2.03 (a&b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To this end
it was agreed that to foster competition, each subborrower would be required
to obtain at least three price quotations from suppliers. For subprojects
above the free limit, SMIB would consider the suitability of international
tendering and provide a justification of the procurement procedure to be
followed.
SMIB's Operations
56.       The range of financial services provided by SMIB comprises working
capital loans, equipment loans in both foreign and domestic currency, over-
drafts, discounting of trade bills, deposit accounts and other general banking
services. In addition, SMIB provides limited technical assistance services to
its clients. As of end-September 1980, SMIB's portfolio comprised over 20,000
clients (approximately two-thirds of all enterprises operating in the SMI
sector) and amounted to W 906.9 billion ($1.4 billion). SMIB accounted for
about 25% of total SMI loans outstanding and for 64% of all equipment loans to
the SMI sector.



- 18 -
57.       As of September 30, 1980, outstanding equipment loans amounted to
W 300 billion ($462 million) of which 46% were domestic currency loans and 54%
were foreign currency loans. The share of equipment loans in SMIB's total
portfolio has been declining steadily in the past two years (to 33% in 1980)
due primarily to increasing demand for working capital loans to finance the
buildup of industrial inventories induced by the 1979-80 recession. In 1980,
the economic recession caused a temporary decline in investment demand and,
hence, in the volume of SMIB's approvals of equipment loans, which reached
only W 83 billion compared to W 111 billion in 1979. Despite an increase in
interest for long-term domestic currency financing due to the development of
the Korean machinery industry which has become increasingly capable of
satisfying the domestic market, SMIB's domestic currency equipment lending has
not been growing as fast as could have been expected. To better meet the
demand for equipment financing in the SMI sector, SMIB needs to increase
substantially its domestic currency financing; availability of long-term
domestic resources however, is a major constraint to achieving this objective.
Efficiency in Resource Allocation
58.       SMIB's performance in allocating resources has been generally satis-
factory from the viewpoint of its developmental impact and of its support of
government objectives in the SMI sector. These objectives included, inter
alia, deepening the industrial structure with emphasis on skill intensive
activities, export promotion, geographic dispersal, and promotion of small-
scale, labor-intensive projects. Although the manufacturing sector still
accounted for 91% of total commitments of equipment loans in 1980, greater
sectoral diversification within manufacturing has been achieved with increased
lending to skill-intensive activities; this has led to a decline in the share
of textile projects in SMIB's equipment loan commitments from 45% in 1976 to
20% in 1980, while machinery industries and chemicals have increased their
aggregate share of commitments from 38% in 1976 to 51% in 1980. SMIB has also
achieved reasonable success in diversifying the geographic distribution of its
operations, with the share of commitments going to Seoul City and Busan City
having declined from 49% of equipment loans in 1978 to 37% in 1980, thus
allowing SMIB to reach its goal of limiting to 45% the share of these two
cities in total lending. However this was achieved by increasing SMIB lending
in Kyong Gi Province, surrounding Seoul, from 18% in 1978 to 27% in 1980. As
a result, SMIB lending outside these three areas marginally increased from 33%
to 36%. SMIB's performance in this area would continue to be monitored under
the proposed loan. SMIB's 1982/83 Development Strategy Statement calls for
increasing lending outside these three areas to 40% by 1983. SMIB's effective
support of smaller-scale enterprises within the SMI sector is apparent in the
fact that the share of enterprises with less than 100 employees has actually
increased from 43% of total commitments in 1978 to 55% in 1980.  This was
achieved in spite of an increase in the average size of SMIB's domestic
currency equipment loans from W 17.4 million in 1978 to W 56.1 million in
1980. SMIB's performance in terms of employment creation has been equally
satisfactory: over the period 1978-80, foreign currency lending operations
alone helped in the creation of about 15,000 jobs at an average fixed
investment cost per job of $15,100. Although the average fixed investment



- 19 -
cost per job created, calculated on an annual basis, has increased from $8,900
in 1977 to $17,400 in 1979 as a result of both inflation and the higher
capital intensity of investment in Korea, it was only about one-third that of
the projects financed by KDB and KLB.
59.       In terms of export orientation, the proportion of SMIB clients
involved in direct exports has declined markedly since the mid-1970s.
Although this may seem contradictory with the fact that SMI's share of exports
has remained stable during that period, it simply reflects the success of
government policies aimed at encouraging marginal SMI exporters to market
their products overseas through subcontracting arrangements with large local
trading and industrial ventures. SMIB has been financing an increasing number
of projects involving subcontracting with larger firms.
Financial Structure and Performance
60.       As of end-1980, SMIB's total assets amounted to W 1,411 billion
($2.2 billion). SMIB's total loan portfolio (short and long-term) has
increased from 62% of total assets in 1978 to 72% in 1980, due chiefly to the
growth of working capital loans (from 39% of assets in 1978 to 48% in 1980).
The Government has made regular annual contributions to SMIB's share capital
in accordance with an understanding reached under the first Bank loan to
provide SMIB with additional equity capital as needed to maintain a long-term
debt/equity ratio not greater than 10:1. As of December 31, 1980, SMIB's
paid-in capital amounted to W 57.1 billion compared to W 27.1 billion at
end-1979. SMIB's financial position is sound with the long-term debt/equity
ratio, which stood at 9.2:1 at year-end 1979, declining to 4.9:1 at end-1980.
The total debt/equity ratio also declined from 29.9:1 in 1979 to 19.1:1 in
1980, and is not inordinately high for an institution heavily involved in
commercial banking operations and deriving a large part of its resources from
deposits. The current ratio which had remained above 1:1 in the period
1976-79 declined to 0.93 by mid-1980 due to a shift in the composition of
SMIB's deposit resources whereby short-term deposits now account for 80% of
total deposits compared to a historical level of 70-75%. This shift is
primarily linked to the economic recession which caused a substantial decline
in long-term savings. The situation does not constitute a cause for alarm
although SMIB needs to keep this situation under close review and attempt to
diversify its sources of long-term funds (para. 65 below). SMIB's debt
service coverage ratio reached a satisfactory level of 1.22 in 1980.
Resource Mobilization
61.       In the Korean context, where demand for funds exceeds available
supply, SMIB's ability to mobilize foreign and domestic currency resources has
been the crucial determinant of the scale of activities. Over the 1977-80
period, total resources mobilized by SMIB have increased at an average rate of
40% p.a., thus allowing the loan portfolio to grow at approximately the same
rate. As of September 30, 1980, SMIB's total resources amounted to W 1,290
billion ($1.98 billion), of which domestic currency resources accounted for



- 20 -
80% and foreign currency 20%. Short-term resources have accounted for about
two-thirds of StMIB's total resources over the 1978-80 period, which has
effectively constrained SMIB's ability to supply larger amounts of long-term
equipment loans.
62.       Equity resources, mainly in the form of government subscriptions to
SMIB's share capital, have remained stable at about 4-5% of total domestic
resources in the period 1976-80.  Domestic currency borrowings and deposits
accounted for the balance. SMIB is not overly dependent on the Government for
its domestic currency resources. Borrowings from the Government have
marginally increased in recent years but remained at a moderate level of 16%
of domestic currency liabilities in 1980. Deposits accounted for the balance
of 84%. SMIB's deposit base has been growing slowly in the period 1979-80 due
to the economic recession, with a trend towards an increase in the share of
short-term deposits.
63.        SMIB began acquiring foreign currency resources in 1965.  By end-
September 1980, it had mobilized an aggregate amount of $401.6 million of
which 31% came from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and 36% from the Bank.
Since 1976, SMIB has also been the channel of foreign exchange resources
provided by the Government to the SMI sector, aggregating to $75.3 million
between 1976 and 1980. This arrangement, however, was discontinued in 1980
due to Korea's balance of payments difficulties. In order to reduce its
reliance on government and other official sources of funds, and given the fact
that ADB and Bank lending is leveling off in nominal terms, SMIB has indicated
that it would initiate steps to mobilize foreign commercial borrowings (para.
65).
Business and Financial Prospects
64.       Korea's longer-term development plans are formulated on the premise
that export-led manufacturing growth will remain a key element in its devel-
opment strategy.  SMIB has estimated its operations for the period 1981-85 on
the basis of government expectations of a real growth in fixed capital forma-
tion of 4% in 1981 and 8% thereafter. SMIB anticipates total commitments
(working capital and equipment loans) to increase annually at about 19% and
reach a cumulative amount of W 2,852 billion ($4.3 billion, approximately)
over the five-year period 1981-85, with foreign loan commitments amounting to
$509 million, or 12% of the total. Achievement of these targets will depend
primarily on SMIB's ability to mobilize additional resources, particularly
long-term domestic and foreign currency funds. SMIB's financial performance
and structure are expected to remain satisfactory over the next five years.
Net income would increase from W 12.7 billion in 1980 to W 35 billion in 1985.
Total assets are projected to grow annually by about 27% from W 1,411 billion
in 1980 to W 4,597 billion in 1985. Due to projected increases in its share
capital, SMIB's long-term debt/equity ratio would decline from 4.9:1 in 1980
to 3.3:1 in 1983, and would gradually increase thereafter, remaining well
within the contractual limit of 10:1 agreed with the Bank (Section 4.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Both the current ratio and debt service coverage ratio
would remain at satisfactory levels throughout the projection period.



- 21 -
65.       SMIB's domestic currency resources will continue to come primarily
from deposits (62%). It is doubtful however that long-term savings deposits
which were only 20% of total deposits in 1980, can reach the target of 32%.
Failure to attain this objective may constrain SMIB's ability to make long-
term loans for equipment purchases and for medium-term working capital
requirements. It is therefore essential that SMIB start aiversifying its
sources of long-term domestic currency funds by exercising its authority to
issue debentures. Agreement was reached during negotiations that SMIb would
take measures to increase its local currency resources, including issuing of
debentures (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). On the foreign
currency side, SMIB would need to mobilize p490 million over the 1981-85
period in aadition to the $57.1 million available at end-1980. SMIB expects
that borrowings from the Bank would account for 45% and those from ADb for
31%. The remaining 24% of SMIB's foreign currency resource requirements will
most likely have to be met from foreign commercial borrowings since SMIB's
access to Government foreign exchange resources might be limited in the
future, compared to SMIB's needs. It is therefore important that SMIB con-
sider establishing links with foreign commercial sources of funds. Prospects
for such borrowings appear favorable. SMIB's plans for initiating discussions
with foreign commercial lenders were discussed at negotiations and its
Development Strategy Statement for 1982/83 was amended to reflect SMIB's
intention of mobilizing, after consultation with the Government, additional
foreign currency financing from commercial sources.
Main Features of the Loan
66.       As with previous bank loans to SMIB, the proposed loan would
finance: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods and
services; and (b) 60% of the cost in domestic currency (representing the
estimated foreign exchange componeilt) of locally manufactured or procured
machinery and equipment (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Pro-
curement was discussed with SMIB at negotiations with the objective of bring-
ing more uniformity with standard procedures for foreign equipment. The
long-term debt/equity limit of 1U:1 previously agreed with SMIB is adequate
and would be maintained (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). The free
limit of $0.5 million would also remain unchanged (Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Although the number of subprojects above the free
limit requiring Bank review prior to approval is likely to be small, SMIB
attaches importance to the exchange of views taking place through such
reviews. It is estimated that this free limit will result in approximately
15% of the proposed loan being allocated to subprojects requiring detailed
review by the bank prior to approval. A subloan ceiling of $2 million has
been set under the proposed loan (compared to $1.5 million under the previous
loan) in recognition of the greater funding requirements of some modernization
investments (Section 2.02(a(i)) of the draft Loan Agreement). Eligibility of
subborrowers would be in terms of maximum employment (300 employees for
manufacturing and 500 employees for specific activities identified in the SMI
Promotion Law).



- 22 -
67.       The proposed loan would have an adjustable composite amortization
schedule reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of subloans made by
SMIB (Section 2.08(a) of draft Loan Agreement). Individual subloans would
have a maximum maturity of 13 years, including a grace period of three years
(Section 2.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). SMIB intends to onlend the
proceeds of the proposed loan at an interest rate of 2 percentage points above
its own borrowing rate with the full foreign exchange risk to be passed on to
the subborrowers. This is in line with the general practice of development
finance institutions in Korea of relending the proceeds of foreign exchange
borrowings from institutional sources. The nominal onlending rate is expected
to be 11.6% p.a. The average depreciation of the Won relative to the US
dollar has added an additional cost averaging about 9% p.a. to the previous
Bank loans to SMIB. In addition, the cross-currency exchange rate fluctua-
tions between the various currencies disbursed by the Bank and the US dollar
has added a cost of about 3% p.a. thus raising the total effective foreign
exchange risk of previous Bank loans to 12% p.a. While the effective foreign
exchange risk under the proposed loan cannot be quantified in advance, it is
expected to bring the effective cost of Bank funds to a level which is
positive in real terms and is comparable to the domestic currency lending rate
of 20% p.a. Under previous Bank loans to SMIB, disbursement of the Bank loan
proceeds resulted in wide differentials in foreign exchange risk, and hence
effective interest cost to individual subborrowers. The currency pooling
system would remedy this deficiency by equalizing the foreign exchange risk
among subborrowers.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       The continued support of the SMI sector remains an important
element in Korea's industrial development strategy in view of the sector's
contribution to employment creation, regional dispersal of industry and
growth of manufactured exports. However, Korea's comparative advantage in
the production of labor-intensive, light manufactured goods, on which the
SMI sector was heavily dependent, eroded during the 1970s due to rising
labor costs and the emergence of efficient competitors in world markets. In
view of these changes, Korea's recent industrial strategy has emphasized
skill and technology development with priority being given to large industry
in the allocation of scarce capital and human skills. It appears that this
industrial development strategy has not sufficiently allowed the SMI sector
to increase productivity or to improve the quality of output; furthermore,
the increasing demand for skilled labor in large industry has raised labor
costs in the SMI sector thus reducing the profitability and competitiveness
of SMI products. The Government has responded initially to the deteriora-
tion by increasing the protection of SMI enterprises against competition
from more efficient producers. However, the Government has recently
reviewed the situation and is now committed to improving the competitiveness
of the sector through capital investment and betterment of skills. With
this objective in mind, the proposed project would, as pointed out in para.
45 above, enhance SMIB's role in financing investments which will tend to
raise the productivity of the SMI sector by, inter alia, encouraging the
application of more efficient production technology.



- 23 -
69.        SMIB has proved to be an efficient allocator of resources, including
Bank funds, to the SMI sector. Through SMIB, Bank resources totalling $131
million as of end-October 1980 had been committed for 616 economically viable
projects in the manufacturing, construction and transportation subsectors.
Experience with previous Bank loans to SMIB shows that the projects financed
with Bank resources yielded substantial economic benefits with rates of return
ranging from 29% to 48%. The subprojects to be financed by SMIB under the
proposed loan are expected to yield similar benefits. Based on the average
cost per job of projects recently financed by SMIB, the proposed loan would
help create approximately 5,000 jobs. There are no significant risks
associated with the implementation of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Small and Medium
Industry Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 28, 1981
Washington, DC



-24-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7AQS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              8 
AGRICULTURAL      22.7                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMEKICA & CARlBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  180.0       420.0    1500.0                 1114.7                  15D2.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      258.0       815.0    1359.0                  842.4                  1055.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7        31.4       36.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7         40.7       52.1                  39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       50.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         66.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      251.0        319.0     372.0                  376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0       1371.0    1612.0                 2350.4                    Ni.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        41.0      35.9                   40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                          53.8        55.7      60.3                   56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3         3.3       3.8                    3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4        1.9                   2.4                     2.7
URNBAN                              5.9         6.5       5.2                    4.1                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    41.0          30.0      21.0                   28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0        10.0       8.0                    7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1/c       2.6        1.4                   1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WO"EN)   ..          42.0      43.9                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
DNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0         99.0     115.0                  116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        110.0     119.0                  108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           55.0        65.0      73.0                   60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0         8.0      15.0                   18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0         8.0       5.0                    5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   54.0          59.0      63.0                   63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            62.0        43.0      37.0                   52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        58.0      62.0                   42.4                    65.9
URBAN                               ..         84.0      80.0                   62.1                   80.4
RURAL                                ..        38.0      36.0                   29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        25.0      61.0                   52.8                    62.3
URBAN                                ..        59.0      68.0                   71.1                    79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0                   42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0       2110.0    1955.0                 4120.1                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.0/d    2170.0/d   510.0                  2213.6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2482.0       1900.0    1569.0                  819.4                  480.3
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9         ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.3       5.1
URRAN                              5.4          5.0       4.9
RURAL                               5.6         5.5       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3       2.0
URBAN                              2.8          2.7       2.1
RURAL                              2.4          2.2       2.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.0         49.9
URBAN                             67.3         92.4
RURAL                              12.0        29.9      64.9



-25-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEItAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
Mos.T RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MiDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0      15.0       111.0                   98.6                      99.7
MALE                  99.0        106.0     111.0                    99.2                    101,0
FEHALE                89.0        105.0     111.0                    97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0        43.0       88.0                   55.5                      34.4
MALE                  38.0         52.0      96.0                    60.7                     33.5
FEKALE                14.0         34.0      78.0                    49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  14.0           16.0      16.0                    13.7                     39.2
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0        57.0       49.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0       38.0                   28.5                      14,5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         87.0      93.0                    85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0       3.5                    9.0                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0       131.0      144.0                  118.9                     245,3
TV RECEIVERS PER rHOuSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         14.0      66.0                   39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0     173.0                      ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0       2.2                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANYS)       8237.0      10978.3   13767.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8        32.7       33.0                   36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0      41.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3        20.1       37.0                   21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0      36.6                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  49.5         46.8      48.8                    48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0      24.2                    29.6                     14.0
ECONOtMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.4       1.1                     1.1                      1.4
IRCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   1S.1/e         17.1      16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS  42.37         44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77W          7.1       5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07e         17.7      16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      320.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      270.0                  192.1                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      270.0/f                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      227.0/f                182.5                     332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       18.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       11.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indiLator are population-welRhted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anofl Lhe indicaLors depends on availbillity of data and is not untfors.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  /d Registered, not all practiceng in the country; /e 1965., /f Recent esti.nat.s are 5370 and
9310 respectively.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
For 1975 it is estimated that there were 2.5 persons per room
in urban areas.
/h  Recent eti1rate of tntal labor force (tI:outacids) is 14206.0 of
which agriculture is 35.8' and industry 30.3%.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other
data are an of April, 19RO.
October, 1980



-26-                                                        ANNEX I
DU TOSOF SCIAL. MIICATORS                                                       P g        3   of   5
jot..:  Although the date ens dross fre  -ooce  generlly jadge  the met authorItatIve end reliable, it should elso ha noted that they may net be lnter-
aeclonelly noeperble beceaes of the leek of etedaddised definition,  n   mccpt. need by elf ferat  -onrlie. to ro11-cing the d.ta.  The de.ar,  ao
thelsee, coefu1 to describe odrde   of magitode. indicate trend., end ch..acnerioe certin alec  differeocen between c-ntria..
Thet reference groUP. are (1) the em  -outry group of the eubject cotry end (2) * ecotry group with  omewhat higher.. avrage iocne  thee the cont" ry cop
of the anject  ;tootr  (-.cePt fo  `Cepitl Serplue Oil Rapertere' group where "Middle Inc-   North Afrina end Middle  -teat  ie ch.-a  becene  of etronge
eoi-nla  efiotie.).  In the referente group date the everege  are population weighted arithmetic  easeo for eac h indicetor end chs  only when et
lenet~ half of the co-etrie  ie a grou  hea deta for that indicanor.  Stn-  the n-vreg  of conntriee ang the tedicetore dependo on the ave1lehility of
date and is net owl re,  tanin aset be eneetted in relating  -vege  of one indicator to enother.  Th..e.. erage. era enly ne.nfl in compaing the vel1a
of one indicetor at a tine asag the country, end reference group..
LAND ASIA (theneend eq.ha.)                                                              FP...letioe  -e  Phvei1ien-  copulation dinesd by noben on practicing phy-
Totel - Totel enrf.. ac   rea tmrieiog lend anee end inland wetere.                       eicie  qoelifitd froe a adical echoo1 et  nivereity leve.
Asniculture1 - fetieete of egicuite..el area ced tamprerily or peowantly                Pno.lation  e- Sorim a Preon - Popolation divided by n.,her of practicing
o.r  -rpe, peatore, earha  sad kitchen gardes or no tie fallow; 1977 deta.             male an  fewa1  gradnte .      ce  pratical ouase. and aseletast eareaa
Inoulaion s   geentalBd-  total urbe. end eurl -  .Popletint (tetel.
Of P   CAbPtTA (01$o) - iG  per capite ectiatas aet onceot eart price ...al -             ure.ed cre)1divide  by thbeir rpetive mNer of heepital bede
cetjdb      _acovnreioe  enhod ee World Sash Anle  (1977-79 henL.); 1960,               available in public end private general and apenie11ned hospital end re-
1970. and i9y9dana.                                                                       hbhilitetlen caters.  Boepitala are amtabliekimnta pruememetly etaffed
by an leat on  phyicien.  Etebldiebeta Previdieg Priaoipelly owtodda
tENEtY COSSnISTIN PtI CAPITA - Aen1e  c-optjon of oo-rcie  enegy (ca                       care ar  net incoded.  loca  hospitale. howeve, inclode health end sadical
end lignite, petrnlae, netnoel gee end hydro-, - edea  ed genth.eewl alec-                caster. not permnetly staf fed by a phyeinisen (bet by a eedica  easieatent,
tric iny) in kllogram   of .-I equivlaet pee cupita; 1960, 1970. and 1978                 nurs. mdwif a, etc.) wtch offer ie-patient accea.detio  end previde e
data.                                                                                     liirtd range of tedicel facilitiea.  For etatietinel porpese  efla  heei-
tale inclde Wes principal garel end epecielized hoepitela, an rural
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             hoe pit"le lead orcoal hopitale end medica  end materity casters.
Total Popolation. Kid-Year (eillicna   - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978             Ade.jeeon  rr Son..it.1 Bed - Tonal somber of edmieeio    to or diachargee
Udanet.      o    v, tI  ttl-Ri  I    b                     .tta   .lt-                  fret hoepitals divided by the aSeor of had..
diffarant definition  of urban -ares may effect comparability of data                OSN
ang:i   'T,ous. triec; i196O, 1970, and 1979 data.                                    Avece.. Si., of Nonehod (            2ron -a  behold    total. nrben. eNd   r
PouainPoetion                                                                    A honeebol-dI co-dc  of a          Iru f edividnale who share livin  q5oat...
Posuletion in veer 2009 - Current population projection  are bassd on 1980              and their sin  e-I..  A boordr or lodger mey or may at be i-clded in
total population by age and e-  end their enctality end fertility ratae..             the ho...ahold for etatietical purp-ea.
Projection perenertesfor sortelity ratee comprise of th.a. lea-   ee,a              A"esraa  e:ndb  ofpr.or om             1ne. u-bas  asd cora  - Averge  on
tog life expectany t   birth incrsaaeig with country's poe capita inoa                bE  of pereon  p   rcoial uban. end cora  occopied noveti-oml
level  and C enal  itfe expetey etbilising at 77.5 yeere.  The Pace-                  duellinge, reep-ctively.  Swelli.Se eacluds n-poenmanen  stcot-a  sad
eatere  or frtility rate aleo have thee. levle  enen  decl ine in                     unoccpied ca-re 
farclility according to inca  leve  end peat family pleasingt performn-             Access no tEc.teicity  (sercent of dhellinae  - total. arhe. end coral -
tech coutry is then, aeegndonIf thoee nIne combination of  -otaity                    ConvetionI dwellinge with elecniclny inliving quectere -  pernettAg
en   etlity trende  o  projeotien pnepoae.                                       of tonal, urban, and cora  de11ingo  -ep-cti-aly.
Stationan   "Poletion-  to.  a ettiory population there in no growth oi.ca
the birt- et  e  qa  to the death rate, and alen the  g  etotcre-_
niecntas.Ti ie ahieved only after fertility re  .teedelieto                   -Idee  brlentctc
the repl-cemeen leve  of unit set reproduction rate, when eah Sg-ara-tion             Prieryaehol                totl   aeedfeae-foetta.1  eea end f nele
of woe  rcepl...e itself aexntly.  The e!tatinnry population elee on                    erollent  f all ease. at th. primac  lee sperrasteg    of reapetoton
ntcimand o  the basaia of the projected chranteriatir  of the population                primary school-age population; noreally inclndea children  gagd 6-11
in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of feotiliny reta to replac-                  years but adj,ted fcc differet 1engtha of primary education; fer
moot level.                                                       cona~~~~~~.trie. withun re   docation enrollmet may.. eaa  100 peroet
Yea  etationry onrudtion is. reached - The yea when ettionry populetion                    inca e-  pupile ace bel-owr above the of ficial echool ag..
siehes bas eahd                                                                    Secondar   scol - total. sale end f ale  - Compte  en abov; eeoosday
Pouaio  D-sity                                                                           euaineqnia  at least tor-  years of aPprovd primary int"wtien;
Per eq. he. -Mid-year population Per equar   ilomtar (100 hocte..e.) of                   prrvidea general, ...octinoe1, on mteaher trapining intouctinn   for popib
total ara                                                                                sal   f 12 to 17 yearsa of age; correapododae courcee ar  generally
Par en. he. onricultural lend - Coepund ea above f oragicultural lend                     sec..ludd.
Porulorion Al, ert-er  (nret)- Childre  (S1-iA year), werslg-eg  (15-                       inldetchial*iduntr1i!l,oroterprgrwic  opea.te  adspe-
64 peaer), * ndreired  (65   ar  and er)as perc.asentag    of aid-yea  popo-              dently or as depa-toente of eecoodaryintuio.
"tnon  190   90   n 978 date.                                                           Puo'   tace   ato-emr.ad ..ac.Endr    Total etudets enrolle  in
Poonleton irowb Seta   urrent)- total - Annul growh rtete of total mid-             prmran aodr   eeadvdd by n,hare. of teachrs inbth
yertepltinafr 195-0,16-70, en   9078.                                            correponding levala.
Populaion irvib lte (pecent)- urban -nnalgowtb ratee of urban pOpe-               MAtltl literay ret f(prarmt) - Lierurts adulna (able to read end write)
latione for 1950-60, 196070, sed 1970-78.                                                 asap rretgoo  total adult population agd 15 years sad ever.
Crude Sieth hate tour theesend)- Annua  Lire birtha par th-ouad of mid-yeer
pepnlation; 1960, 1970en  1978 data.                                                CONSUMPTIONl
Crude Death hate toer th-oued) - A--Ia deathe per thouaen  of aid-y.e.sema  Care (par tbcnend porulation)    aesgccre comprine moto
popolotion; 1960, 1970, and 1978 dte,                                                   care seting men. then eight person; nncludaaabln.    he.a.e.. sd
Grchee hanrodtio  hates-Average ebar of deaghtere e  omn   il ber in.                     miitryvhicln.-
he   nelrproductive Period if ahe eap-riecee preeent age-epeif tfr             Bad1it nn ers(ec thoced reenltior  - all tya  otf r-caiva ..  or rndh
tility raise;  enlyfive-=-yeraeae  ending in 1960, 197 0. ad 1977.                      brodcaterc gne,rtelhpoblic par thunneod  f populaion; asldee enli-
rFally Plueine -  c toe  Anua  (h soneda) - Annual nobsr cf acoeptoro                     caneed rac..iv-re it ceotrina end in yeare when regietration of radio seat
of hibrt=-onrol, deia odr aupiee. of eatlonal Pfandiy planing program.                   wee in effoct; data tee rncnnt years -y non be comparable  i-e mean
really Panuine    Pete. (ercentIf eareid woe) - Pecetage ofmarried                -eutcie  obr1ithd liconig.
-ee  of child-bear.ing age (10-44 ysere) who  -e  birth-contcc  dei_s  to             7 TV ..c-tee   (Par th-ouad population) - TV receiver  for broadcae.t to
all maried woe  in e-  age gnoup.                                                       gcnea1 public Pur thnuoend  'Pepu"'i; ealdeceioe   V  nevr
tn coontries and in years when rogie-t_t=o of TV-..ete'. in e,frfec.t..
POOP AM0 NUTRITIONiStI-  h                                                                                                                               h     .g     .1
teeae    irclton(e  noandrrlain df- Shame th  average..  Fobl-
loden of Pond Prod-ctioc cer Capita (1969-71-100) - Tndas of Par capita cre                 ono   dil   eel  1innre   peoep.pr  deie   sapeidclpb
p-ductlco of all food cadtiee.  production eacudee  eed end foaed aid                   li-ation dented primarily tn recrding gEnara  neweo.  It is ooidared
ie en  alede  Yea  baeJle. Coasditise cte,r prdeery goode (e.g.  W_                     no be "daily" if it eppeare an Ibee.t Sour rian. a wek.
inoteads of  ugat) which er   dibleiend contain nutriente (e.g. coff   ad                       -1 icn   Anal Atouden-    e  -poit. per year - =ea  on th  noehe- of
ten ore  -noldad).  Aggregate production of each coutry is based on                   Crirbet  -ol  dring the year  including adiade,ion to driv-in cin-e
IstIonol average producer price weighte; 1961-65, 1970, and 1978 date                   and tobile  -nite..
par _acita enool  ofclre   nr t of reogir-te     - Cpompted from
ene rgy  quiv-lent of net fond enpplie availabl  in coutry par capita             tArn  FORCE
Per day. Available enppliee comprise domeetic production, . iprte less            _To_talLbro Force (tho-enda) - tE-oIcally active pereon  including
nop_re   n   hne   naok   Net eap 1nuselde anleal feed, eeeda,                        arndf.ce      .n.ePloyd hot oc ing boue-i-, etodeate *etc.
tuentitis  uaed infood proceaing, ed loaeeein distribution.  Rquire-     Prrinirio   in.    v..ncocr          r   o    acpsr..ble; 1960. 1970 end
eate were otiasted by PAD based on pbyeiologiol needs for nsma ati-                   1970 data.
city and health nonidering en-irnoetal toopr..tnre, bodywige,ae                     Pae(ecn)-Pmllbofreaspcnaaoftalaoroc.
nod  -e  distri 6ti1 ofpplto,edlodg1   ecn   or onsto at                            Arcur  (percent) - Labor forc  in f anlo, foreatry, honting and
...eahold level; 1961-65  170. en  1977 date                                         f ihig a   pec Ing   f total labor force; 1960, 1970 end 1978 data.
Pee caita eorly  f oroain(srm  per ;dey) - Protein content of par capita      Ind_tr  (ecet    LoSabe  force in niin,  otrtion, manufactuele
ne  epply of fond Pur day.  tNot supply of food in defined  -e aboe   in            ed electricity, water and gee as percentage of total labor force; 1960,
qui-ennn  for all  -outria  eatabliehed by USDA provide for m90ini178dm.
alo tnc:f 60 gr-n  of total protein per day and 20 gree  of entea  -d              90  n .ri.ti975 data.st    tteael      ript                                  I
If  hi    10  1-   hold b  -i-1p..ti..  T...  tead    peiietfn   hae(enn)-tna,ml.adfsla-Priieiao
poe   rrio. efwih1   e          odb   nelpoen    he   tn-                       atvty reteaar  cmpted as total, m ale mn  fae. labor force as
arde are loerthnthoee of 75 gram  of tonal protain and 23 grin  of                    percentage. of total, mal  en  camel poPoltmon of elluage  reepeotively;
anleal Protein  e enavrage too the enrld, propueed by PAO in the Third                1960, 197P, and 1975 data.  Thae. are flw.S  pericipation rece ref lentleg
World Pond S.rvey; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.                                       ag-saarututre of the popation  and long tine trend.  A fen eti-
Poe ceoPt rrotainaunoly fom asfea  end pd..e - ftotnin oupply of food[ de-     mateear  fro  neninnl o1       o
rived frmSlal   n  pl    i   rn  per day; 1961-65, 1970 andl977 date.   Boonomlo..ned-,c hatio   - hti. of populati"on uder 15 and 65 an  ee
Child (aeae  1-) Mortalt  hate'11 (prtoan)-  nulds     par thonan  in                     to the tonal laker forte.
age grop 1-4 yeare. to children In thi  age group; for most develping cou-
triee data derived from life table.; 1960, 1970 end 1977 data.                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecnaeo   rivate Incom  (both in  sben   fd    R- eaivd by richeet
8p.ALTH                                                                                      Ih.                               -;~2   .st   0Pra    0P--
Life  opectancy at Birth (year.) - Averag  nb-e of Feate of lifa raining                   5f peren.hroet2Ppret   er                 Ppren,adpore   0  ecn
at- birth;t 1960, 1970 and 1978 date.
Ifant Motlity hate  ea '   theuad) - Annua duathe of ifente nuder on year   PO                 TARGeT GROUPS
of ag  -n huan  live birtbe.td Abeolune Pover  loo     Level (US, pe  eia  -ubned rura -
Accaeeto Oa.f 5 Watere(rmet of  2 aIon  -total, urban. and cora,,I                      -Aheelun  pverny incom  lsn  in th.t1nc                        Bamgblw   hc  a enainel
Nk,bar of pouple (total.  rbac, end cora) with reaaonble  tree  noadt nritiosally adequate dint pIn . setetinl no-food rquirenats ie act
wetsr ecpply (incloda  treated sufane enter. or ontreanad hut  notninatad                affordable.
outer  -uh as that from protected ho.ebolea. epriege  ad eanitary well.) as            gatieted halti-e Povety incom  Level (05$ pearoa   )-orsanq '-
pernae   ftheir masrecti_n  ouno . I  an urban area   public                    tue   eaiepvryic    ee  *oet Irdo   vrgeprcp
fononic o  atedpcetincaed nt mere nIn  00l entersfro   a hoe may he             pera__l inom  of the co-try.  Urha  leve  is derived feom the rura
onid-eed as being within renenhi  easof that hos.  Incra  arenas                       ..    it djt tf h=                  otIfZ          iz:t"
reasonable acore  w-Id imply that the h-uawife or mebo-  of the houe..old              Elevel with eotmn  for- Abiter coet o   Ivn  in    a-era
do  o  hav  to eped adiepreprtionte pert of the day in fetching th,.n   oa     acu   fpplain(re   n   el   h   c  "ablone Poor".
family   wenr seed..
dieposel as percentagee of their rapniapopuletona                 f . . nrta die-                                      R-oonL. end Social Data DI.iaom
P-sal map iolede the co11enion sad diapoee. w.ith or without treatment%                                          l-ooaic Analyeia enDrjnis   ep-emnst
ofbo-  sanceta end wate-wter by water-born  eyen   or tha  s.e of                                                                   Sniber 198
Pin prlivie  aod ainilar intatlletto-



ANNEX I
Population:  38,197 (mid-1980, thousands)                       -27-                                                         Page 4 of 5
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (Z) at constant prices
current prices)                     Actual                                      Projected
Indicator                          1980/a         1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product          59,177          13.5      9.7    10.6      6.4    -5.7       6.0     7.5     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0
Agriculture                    9,754          10.7      2.1     9.6     6.7   -22.0       20.0     2.5     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Industry                      24,396          19.6    16.1    20.7      8.4    -0.4       4.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Services                      25,027          10.6      9.5    10.8     4.1    -3.2       2.2      7.6     7.9      7.9     7.9      7.9
Consumption                     42,215           8.8      7.1    11.0      7.4    -0.9       3.2     4.5     5.0      5.4     5.7     6.2
Gross investment                17,889           8.0    24.0    35.9    17.5  -23.8         10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Exports of GNFS                 21,145          43.0    25.7    17.5   -3.6        9.6      11.6    12.0    13.0    13.0    13.0    13.0
Imports of GNFS                 25,846          26.9    23.8    29.1       8.6    -6.8       7.7     8.0     9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0
Gross national savings          12,846          42.3    17.3    14.9       2.4   -19.5      13.6    17.1    14.5    14.5    14.5    11.2
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                      116.3   135.8   164.6   197.4   250.3         -       -        -       -       -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                         484.0   484.0   484.0   484.0   607.6        -        -       -        -       -        -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                112.8   120.2   137.2   161.2   168.7
Import price index (1975 - 100)                103.0   103.9   108.4   137.3   175.2
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)              109.5   115.7   126.6   117.4    96.3
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                     Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           8.2        9.3       7.9        7.5       8.0
Agriculture                     36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.5    12.1           4.3        4.8      -1.2        6.1,      3.0
Industry                        20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    43.8    47.7          15.9       15.0      12.6        8.8      10.0
Services                        43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    40.7    40.2           8.6        8.3       7.9        6.7       7.9
Consumption                     85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    67.2    61.8           6.5        6.9       7.5        4.7       6.2
Gross investment                11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.9    37.2          21.2       10.6      13.6       10.0      10.0
Exports of GNFS                  3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    45.0    56.3          25.7       22.6      15.0       13.1      13.0
Imports of GNFS                 12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    46.1    55.2          18.4      14.5       15.7        9.1      12.0
Gross national savings /b        8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7    30.2    34.9          17.2       14.6       9.7       15.6      11.2
As X of CDP
1960      1970       1975      1980         Labor Force in 1980         Millions    (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                           Agriculture                  4.7      32.2
Current revenues                         18.5      17.8       17.9       19.9          Industry                     3.9      27.1
Current expenditures                     14.3      13.1       15.4      15.6           Services                     5.1      35.5
Current surplus                           4.2       4.7        2.5       4.3           Unemployed                   0.7       5.2
Capital expenditure                       3.4       6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                         ...       1.0        1.3        1.0              Total Labor Force       14.5     100.0
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                8.7              9.3              7.6             7.5              8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                     5.9              6.9              5.2             5.6              6.3
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                14.2              9.6             12.3/c            ...             ...
ICOR                                                      2.1              2.9              4.8             4.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate (%)                                24.9             29.7             33.7            51.0             45.0
Import elasticity                                         2.2              1.6              2.0             1.2              1.5
/a  Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



-28-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population         38,197 (mid-1980 thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$ 1,549 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                        Actual                                            Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981            1982    1985    1990
BALANCE OF ;'AYMENTS
Exports of goods and services          1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,487  21,630    24,139  27,036  39,010  71,873
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.           882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,313    19,321  21,640  31,224  57,528
Imports of goods and services          2,180   7,991  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,163  27,510    29,628  31,999  42,587  75,052
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.         1,804   6,670   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  22,178    23,886  25,797  34,332  60,505
Net transfers                            178      225      345      222      467       439      388        400      400      400      400
Current account balance                 -623  -I,858    -07            8  -1,060  -_4,236  -5,492    -5,089  -4,563  -3,177  -2,779
(X of GNP)                             (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.5)            (-8.3)  (-6.9)  (-3.8)  (-2.3)
Direct investment                         66       53        75       73       61       16      ...        134      143      175      225
MLT loans (net)                          242   1,303   1,257   1,464   2,702   2,934            ...      6,193   5,209   3,902   4,204
Official                               147      486      663      594      663      853      ... .    2,193   2,288   2,159   1,935
Private                                 95      817      594      870   2,039   2,081         ...     4,005   2,921   1,743   2,269
Other capital                            191   1,111        532       -1       -1   2,291       ...        100      100      100      100
Change in reserves                       -57    -376  -1,314  -_1372    -707    -898            ...    -1,343    -889  -1,000  -1,750
International reserves                   610      797   1,985    2,992   2,828   3,112   3,101          4,444   5,333  10,647  18,763
Reserves as months imports               3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5       1.4        1.8      2.0      3.0      3.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                          -        -        -        -        -        -
Concessional loans                     123      123      238      163      184      193
DAC                                  122      108      226      132      167      173
OPEC                                   -        -        -       21       13       20
IDA                                    1       14       10        9        3        -
Other                                 -3        1        2        1        -        -
Non-concessional loans                 317   1 580   1 579   2 091   3,756   4.496
Official export credits               18      151      132      262      219      340
IBRD                                   7      189      286      190      321      476
Other multilateral                     5       88       85       86       88       91
Private                              287   1,151   1,078   1,553   3,127   3,639
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                          1,797   6,082   7,377   9,160  12,461  15,068
official                             613   2,780   3,482   4,244   5,139   5,790
Private                            1,184   3,302   3,896   4,916   7,322   9,278
Undisbursed                            902   1,628   3,459   4,793   4,295   5,342
Debt service
Total service payments                 268      732      987   1,288   1,933   2,731
Interest                             70      332      427      498      695      976
Payments as % exports GNFS            20.5    12.6      10.6    10.1      11.6    14.3
Average interest rate on new loans (%)
Official                               4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9      7.4      7.6
Private                                7.1      9.3      8.3      8.4      9.7     11.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                              28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    17.1
Private                               10.9      5.7      8.7      8.8      9.3      8.9
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                            52.4
Maturities due within 10 years                            84.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                             7.2
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
March 1981



ANNEX II
- 29 -                                   Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                        Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                          1,066.52  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea       Education III                      22.5                         1.27
1203          1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                       90.0                        2.17
1319          1976    ADC                     Irrigation                         29.0                       20.47
1338          1976    KDB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                   75.0                        0.39
1364          1977    ADC                     Irrigation                         95.0                       56.62
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                           67.0                       46.50
1466          1977    Republic of Korea       Heavy Machinery                    80.0                       23.95
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                23.0                        6.40
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       32.35
1507          1978    SMIB II                 Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                        0.24
1530          1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                       42.63
1542          1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                        4.57
1574          1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                       11.02
1635          1978    KDFC VII                Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        6.05
1640          1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                       143.0                      108.64
1666          1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       96.01
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                       19.02
1749          1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       16.89
1758          1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       62.47
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                       30.00
1778          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                               115.0                      115.00
1800          1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                       100.0                       99.50
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       28.25
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                       89.79
1851          1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                     50.0                       47.75
1932          1980    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       90.00
1933          1980    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                      100.00
Total                                                           3,095.02  40.0  106.81   1,157.95
of which has been repaid                                        189.46   -       2.44
Total now outstanding                                           2,905.56  40.0  104.37
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid        6.29                              2.54   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                2,903.02  40.0  104.37
Total undisbursed                                               1,157.95   -       -       1,157.95



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                  Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                        Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                            -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                        Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    61.6    2.7   64.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                        44.8   24.6   69.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                         7.0    2.5    9.5
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /_
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date:  Oct-ber 21; 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the originally scheduled six major
civil works contracts with the first contract nearly completed. The project
area has been reduced to 7,100 ha from 12,685 as a result of deleting 2,300
ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation of construction
costs due to inflation have become uneconomic. The award of contracts for
the next two areas is scheduled in flay. Due to the escalation of costs and
inadequate local project budget allocations to compensate for the increase,
the project is currently about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction, awarded
in December 1977, is on schedule and the dam will be completed in 1981.
Other parts of the project have fallen behind schedule due to a sharp esca-
lation of costs and insufficient budget allocations to meet the increases.
It is now expected that in addition to the estuary dam, eight of the ten
subprojects will be completed by the end of 1984. Tidal reclamation is
scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed in 1986, about 2-1/2 years
behind schedule; the Bank is discussing with the Government measures to
accelerate this schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements
for 10,800 ha including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, and conversion of
1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land. Construction was to have been
carried out under seven civil works contracts and three were awarded in late
1979. Award of the fourth contract is scheduled in May 1981. The project is
currently about two years behind schedule due to local budget allocations
which were insufficient to meet the sharply increased cost escalation.
Award of the remaining three constracts depends upon funding availability
and a review of their economic justification.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component will be completed in
1980. Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total
area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha.  Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851      Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well
and loan disbursements have commenced.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good, and detailed planning is
underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects; the remainder of
the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC) to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment
enterprises. Commitment of funds has been completed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased substantially for a number of reasons,
including the devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The
market prospects for the project were affected by licensing of other power
plant equipment manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
and to strengthen the financial viability of the project, the Government has
given the project company exclusive right to manufacture power plant
equipment for the domestic market, has arranged a major infusion of new
equity capital through government institutions and has given the President
of the Korean Power Company the responsibility for strengthening the
management of the company. Details are being worked out between the parties
involved and discussions have been pursued between the Korean authorities
and the Bank to assist in resolving the issues.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. Funds have been entirely committed and final dibursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Mfillion Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980.  In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 8% of funds are
still to be disbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in completing final specifications and
bidding documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the
project is progressing. Bids have been received and are being evaluated for
a major proportion of the equipment. The training program is also under
way. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the project
and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: Ausust 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well and loan disbursements have
commenced.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems. The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available. Loan disbursements have not yet commenced.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component was delayed by almost one year because of a
temporary shortage of counterpart funds. This, in turn, caused a postpone-
ment of the Closing Date by one year. Now all equipment contracts have been
awarded and over 90% completed. Estimated total project costs are now
slightly higher (3%) than the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. .A11 experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works liave been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: tMarch 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at: (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korean Power Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986.  The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and nanagement consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



ANNEX III
-41-
KOREA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY BANK PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              The project was prepared through
consultation during regular
supervision of the previous loans
to Small and Medium Industry Bank
(SMIB)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:          SMIB
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission to           November 1980
consider the project:
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:             November 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed:                     April 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to carry out by December 31, 1981, a study of institutional
arrangements for delivery of technological and managerial assistance
services to Small and Medium Industry (SMI) sector and thereafter to
implement the findings of the study in accordance with a timetable to be
agreed with the Bank (para. 43).
(b) SMIB to take measures to increase its local currency resources, including
issuing of debentures (para. 65).






112;~~~~I  110
C)  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
S   8 g   8                                                                                                                                  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'tiII
w~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       ~ r  w  ,  5 Ii



