Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4473-BF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Basic Education Sector Project) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 8, 2008  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4473-BF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 8, 2008, entered into between BURKINA FASO 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The arising of a situation which makes it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out is an Additional Event of Suspension. 
4.02. 
The occurrence and continuation for a period of 60 days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient of the event specified in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement is an Additional Event of Acceleration. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance  
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
03 B.P. 7050 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
 (226) 
50-31-27-15 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By /s/ Jean Baptiste M. 
P. Compaoré 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Galina Y. Sotirova 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in its efforts to implement 
the Program, designed to: (i) improve the access to, and quality of, basic education;  
(ii) strengthen the education sector’s financial sustainability; and (iii) enhance the 
financial management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring, evaluation and donor 
coordination of MEBA. 
The Project consists of the carrying out of Annual Work Programs for the 
implementation of the Program, including: 
(i) 
improvement of access to basic education; 
(ii) 
improvement of quality and efficiency of basic education; and 
(iii) 
institutional and administrative capacity of MEBA. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and implementation Arrangements
 
1. 
The institutional arrangement currently in place for the implementation of the 
Original Project shall be maintained throughout the implementation of the 
Project.
 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph 1 above, Paragraph (12) on 
Annual Work Programs of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement shall 
apply for the implementation of the Project, including provisions related to (i) the 
preparation by the Recipient of Annual Work Programs, and review by the 
Association before their inclusion in the Recipient’s annual budget, and (ii) the 
confirmation by the Association each year, through the issuance of an Annual 
Confirmation, of the portion of such Annual Work Program or of the selected 
activities within such Annual Work Program which may be financed during the 
corresponding calendar year from the proceeds of the Financing.  
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in 
the Environment and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement 
Policy Framework. 
(b) 
Except as the Association shall agree in writing, the Recipient shall not 
abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
provisions of the Environment and Social Management Framework and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework. 
Page  8
7
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (A) above, the 
Recipient shall ensure that with each Annual Work Program, an environmental 
and social management plan and a resettlement plan is prepared, if needed 
pursuant to, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Environment and 
Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than three months after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
At completion of the Project, the gross primary enrollment 
percentage has increased from 67 to 78; 
(ii) 
At completion of the Project, the gross primary enrollment at 
first grade percentage has increased from 78 to 88; 
(iii) 
At completion of the Project, the percentage of students 
completing primary education has increased from 36 to 51%; 
(iv) 
At completion of the Project, the number of public classrooms 
has increased from 26,000 to 30,000; 
(v) 
At completion of the Project, the mathematics textbook per 
primary school student ratio has remained stable at 1:1; 
(vi) 
At completion of the Project, the reading textbook per primary 
school student ratio has remained stable at 1:1; 
Page  9
8
(vii) 
At completion of the Project, the repetition ratio has decreased 
from 13 to 10; 
(viii) 
At completion of the Project, the number of public multi-grade 
teaching is maintained at least at 12,000; 
(ix) 
At completion of the Project the number of public teachers 
actually teaching has increased from 26,598 to 30,000; 
(x) 
At completion of the Project the number of public double shift 
teaching has decreased from 7,500 to 4,000; 
(xi) 
At completion of the Project, the percentage of recurrent budget 
allocated to basic education excluding salaries (Title III and IV 
of the Recipient’s national budget) has remained stable at 30. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than September 30, 2010. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than three months after the end of 
each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  10
9
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
Page  11
10
C. Particular 
Meth
ods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. Othe
r
Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Consultant Qualification 
(b)  Least Cost Selection 
(c)  Fixed Budget Selection  
(d)  Single Source Selection 
(e)  Individual Consultants Selection  
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
(a) 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(i) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
more;  
(ii) 
each of the first three contracts procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding; 
(iii) 
each contract procured on the basis of Direct Contracting or Single 
Source Selection; 
(iv) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
(v) 
each of the first three contracts for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000; 
Page  12
11
(vi) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual as 
determined in the Procurement Plan approved in writing by the 
Association; and 
(vii) 
each contract for external audit.   
(b) 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
(c) 
Each terms of reference for consultants’ services shall be subject to Prior Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance such 
percentage of the Annual Work Program Expenditures, as the Association may 
determine for each calendar year, as confirmed in the Annual Confirmation.  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is March 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
No later than March 31, 2009, or such later date as may be agreed in 
writing by the Association, the Recipient shall have revised the terms of reference of its 
external auditor, or entered into a new contract with its external auditor, for the purpose 
of performing the audit and complying with the obligations described or referred to in 
Section II, paragraph (B)(3) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2018 to and including 
May 15, 2028 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2028 to and including 
May 15, 2048 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  14
13
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Annual Confirmation” means the Association’s annual written confirmation of: 
(i) as the case may be, its approval of the Annual Work Program for such year, 
(ii) the percentage and amount of the Annual Work Program Expenditures which 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing for the relevant Calendar 
Year; and (iii), as the case may be, the specific expenditures within such Annual 
Work Program, which may be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing or 
which are excluded from eligibility for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Financing. 
2. 
“Annual Work Program Expenditures” means for a Calendar Year, eligible 
expenditures for works, goods and services, including Operating Costs and 
audits, included in an Annual Work Program for such Calendar Year, as 
determined in the Annual Confirmation for such Calendar Year. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Environment and Social Management Framework” means the document entitled 
“
Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale du Projet d’Education Post 
Primaire Phase 2
”
prepared by SERF at the request of the Recipient and dated 
March 2006. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
7. 
“MEBA” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of basic education. 
8. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating expenses, based on annual 
budgets approved by the Association, incurred by the MEBA and its services at 
the regional, provincial, district and local levels, on account of the Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including operation and 
Page  15
14
maintenance costs of office, vehicles and office equipment ; water and electricity 
utilities, telephone, office supplies, bank charges, additional staff costs, travel 
and supervision costs, per diem, but excluding the salaries of officials and public 
servants of the Recipient’s civil service.  
9. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Basic Education Sector Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
January 31, 2002, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit 
 
No. 3597-BUR). 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 29, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
13. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s basic education ten-year program designed: 
(i) improve the access to, and quality of, basic education; (ii) strengthen the 
education sector’s financial sustainability; and (iii) enhance the financial 
management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring, evaluation and donor 
coordination of MEBA, and set forth or referred to in the letter dated  
February 7, 2008 from the Recipient to the Association. 
14. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document entitled “
Cadre de 
Politique Global pour le Déplacement Involontaire des Populations dans le 
cadre du PEPP2
”
prepared by SERF at the request of the Recipient and dated 
March 2006. 
 
