           Document of
         The World Bank


                                   Report No: 60517-BF




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF
BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
    (CR. 3597-BUR; CR. 4473-BUR)


            TO THE

 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO


         MARCH 31, 2011
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




IDA    International Development Agency
OP     Operational Policy
PDO    Project Development Objective
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
MEBA   Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy




               Regional Vice President:        Obiageli K. Ezekwezili
                     Country Director:         Madani M. Tall
Acting Sector Manager / Sector Director:       Peter N. Materu / Tawhid Nawaz
                    Task Team Leader:          Adama Ouedraogo
                                           2
                                 BURKINA FASO
                        BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
                                    P000309
                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                         Page
ANNEX 1: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE............................................................ 4




                                               3
                                ANNEX 1
                        Extension of Closing Dates
           Burkina Faso ­ Basic Education Sector Project (P000309/P110642)

                                  Restructuring Paper

1.  The closing date for the Burkina Faso Basic Education Sector Project (Cr
3597-BUR) and its Additional Financing (Cr. 4473-BUR) will be extended from
March 31, 2011 to June 30, 2011. This will be the second extension of Cr. 3597-BUR.

2.    The project development objective is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to
implement the Program, which includes: (i) improving access to, and quality of, basic
education; (ii) strengthening the education sector's financial sustainability; and (iii)
enhancing the financial management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring, evaluation
and donor coordination of Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy (MEBA). The
original credit for P000309 (Cr. 3597-BUR) was in the amount of US$32.6 million,
became effective on October 28, 2002 and has been extended twice. The additional
financing (Cr. 4473-BUR) was in the amount of US$15 million and became effective on
December 17, 2008. As of March 31, 2011, the overall disbursement of Cr. 3597-BUR
and Cr. 4473-BUR stands at 75.7 percent and 40.8 percent respectively.

3.    In 2006, the project was restructured to participate in a pooled funding mechanism
to help MEBA manage and harmonize donor interventions in the education sector and
accelerate project implementation. However, slow implementation and issues of
misprocurement led to the Bank's decision in 2008 to withdraw from the pooled fund and
revert to a stand-alone implementation mode. To offset the rising cost of food and help
the government tackle issues of school-based quality improvements and teacher support,
an Additional Financing of SDR 9.20 million was processed. Since then, IDA has
provided intensive support to the government to improve and accelerate implementation,
with modest success, so that in June 2010, the Bank and the government drafted a revised
implementation plan focused on activities that: (a) can be realistically achieved within the
remaining lifetime of the project; (b) will have the greatest impact on achieving the
Project Development Objectives (PDO); and (c) can ensure satisfactory project outcomes.

4. However, progress did not happen to the expected level and a realistic assessment
confirmed that many of the identified activities included in the revised action plan could
not be completed by the current closing date. The government thus requested an
extension of six months, which was reduced to three months to June 30, 2011 due to a
three-year time limit imposed on Additional Financing by OP 13.20. Given that the three
months extension would only allow for a limited number of activities to be implemented,
the Bank's team and the government have agreed on the following action plan: (i) process
an extension of three months to allow for an orderly closure of the project; (ii) cancel all
activities that have not yet started and which cannot be completed by June 30, 2011; and


                                             4
(iii) cancel part of the credit for re-commitment to a new operation currently under
preparation (Poverty Reduction Support Credit).

5.    The three month extension would allow the project to finance the ongoing teacher
training activity and carry out those activities that are ready to be implemented and can
be completed by June 30, 2011, namely: (i) training of local education officers in
fiduciary aspect, (ii) supporting community-level school animators, and (iii) the printing
of 82,500 pre-school booklets, as well as associated operating costs. It would also allow
the Bank team to properly analyze the government's proposal to cancel US$10 million of
the credit for re-commitment to ensure that the cancellation will not negatively affect
achievement of the PDO.

6.     The government is committed to wrap up the project in an orderly fashion and has
confirmed that it will: (i) provide justification to the Bank for previously-received
advances by April 8, 2011; and (ii) adhere to the timeline for reimbursing the remainder
of the amount declared misprocured (US$1.9 million have already been reimbursed out
of US$2 million). The government has also confirmed that it is in the process of
addressing the previously identified accountability issues and that it will make every
effort to support completion of ongoing activities within the next three months. There are
no outstanding audits for the project and there are no safeguards issues since school
constructions will no longer be carried out.

7.    The extension of the closing date satisfies OP 13.30, paragraph 3 on Closing Date
which provides that (a) the project objectives continue to be achievable; (b) the
performance of the Recipient and other project implementing agencies is satisfactory; and
(c) the Recipient has prepared a specific action plan acceptable to the World Bank to
complete          the         existing          contracts       and          agreements.




                                            5
