                                         Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 43635-BF




                                      PROJECTPAPER

                                             ON A

                     PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 9.2 MILLION
                             (US$15MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                       BURKINA FASO

                                            FORA

                          BASICEDUCATION SECTORPROJECT

                                          May 6,2008




HumanDevelopmentI1
CountryDepartmentF1
Africa Region

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe
performanceoftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.


                                                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                          BURKINA FASO

                                   BASICEDUCATIONSECTORPROJECT

                                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                                                               CONTENTS




     A. INTRODUCTION.....................................................................................................................       6
     B. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE......................................................................................                           6
     C. PROPOSEDCHANGES...........................................................................................................              9
     D. CONSISTENCY WITHTHE CAS AND THEPRSP............................................................                                         10
     E. APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES.....................................................................                                  11
     F EXPECTEDOUTCOMES....................................................................................................... 14
      .
     G. BENEFITSAND RISKS.........................................................................................................              15
     H. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONREADINESS.....................................................................                                     16
     I.FINANCIALTERMSANDCONDITIONSFORADDITIONALFINANCING..................16
     APPENDIX A: FINANCINGMECHANISMSFORTHE BASICEDUCATIONSECTOR
     PROGRAM................................................................................................................................... 17
     APPENDIX B: PROJECTCOSTS ...............................................................................................                   18

     APPENDIX C:REVISEDRESULTSFRAMEWORKFORTHEPROGRAM.........................                                                                   19

     APPENDIX D: OBJECTIVESAND ACTIVITIES SUPPORTEDBY THEADDITIONAL
     FINANCING................................................................................................................................. 21

     APPENDIX E: RISK IDENTIFICATIONWORKSHEET..........................................................                                         24

     APPENDIX F: PROCUREMENTTABLE .................................................................................. 26




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                                      3

                                            BURKINA FASO

                             BASICEDUCATIONSECTOR PROJECT
                                      ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET

 Date: May 6, 2008                                           Team Leader: Pierre JosephKamano
 Country: BURKINAFASO                                        Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan
 Project Name: Basic EducationSector Project                 Country Director: Ishac Diwan
 Project ID: PO00309and P110642                              Environmental Category: B
 Borrower: Government of Burkina Faso
 Responsible Agency: Ministryof Basic Educationand Literacy (MEBA)



 Annual             5.0      7.0 I   3.0
 Cumulative         5.0     12.0 I  15.0




 Revised project development objectives/outcomes: The objective of the Project i s to assist the
 Recipient inits efforts to implement the Ten-Year Program.


 [ 3 Loan   [XI Credit   [ 3 Grant   [ ] Guarantee           [ 3 Other:
 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 15.0 equivalent
1ProDosedterms:
 , '             40 vears standards, 10vears Brace Deriod.
                          OrigblFbmcingPlan(US$m) for theFirstPhase          I            I
     L'L                 Source                  ' I ' '  ' ,     Local         Foreign        Total
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                    16.10 I       0.30 I       16.40




I                                                          I                I            I             I
 Pooled account
 CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                    4.96          2.12          7.08


                                                   4

BID                                                 I        15.75 I   6.75 I   22.50
A m                                                          0.59 I    0.88 1    1.47
UNICEF                                                       5.16 I    1.29 I   6.45




LOCAL SOURCES OFBORROWINGCOUNTRY                    I        0.70 I   0.00 I    0.70




Borrower: Government of BurkinaFaso
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy
ContactPerson:Zaba Noraogo Innocent
Tel: (226) 50 30 78 53       Fax:(226) 50 30 80 36
Email:noraogoz@yahoo.fr




                                              5

A. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in an amount of SDR 9.2 million (US$l5.0 million equivalent) to
Burkina Faso for the Basic Education Sector Project (project identification PO00309 and
credit number 3597-BUR).

2.      The proposed additional credit (Project identification P110642) would help
finance the costs associated with (a) the implementation o f Burkina Faso ten-year basic
education program (PDDEB); (b) policy dialogue aiming at implementing findings from
the education sector report (ESR) recently conducted jointly by the Bank and the GoBF
and the comprehensive reform of the education sector launched in the context of the
second phase of PDDEB; and (c) implementing targeted safety net through school
feeding program for children in a time of crisis due to exogenous shocks and rising food
prices.

3.      The project development objective which originally referred to the first phase of
PDDEB would be slightly changed to reflect support provided for the whole ten-year
basic education program (the program). Inaddition, indicators targets have beenchanged
to reflect the extension of the closing date. The program general design and
implementation modalities remain unchanged.However, fund will be channeled through
a designated account for the time needed to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in
place to enable the Bank to comply with its fiduciary obligations related to procurement
requirements;inparticular those relatedto prior review of ICB are inplace for all funds.


B. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

4.      Country Context: Landlocked, Sahelian, and resource-poor, Burkina Faso has
nonetheless made substantial progress on structural reforms and sustained a real growth
rate of nearly six percent per annumover the past decade, within a stable macroeconomic
and political context. Despite recent progress, the country remains poor, with per capita
income of only $430 in 2006 and low levels of human development. Since 2000,
development efforts have been guided by a national poverty reduction strategy (Cadre
Stratkggiquede Lutte contre la Pauvrete' or CSLP) to which aid programs i s aligned. The
World Bank is among the most prominent partners in Burkina, with a results-based
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FYO6-09 proposing an annual average o f $140
million innew IDA commitments.

5.      Burkina has a strong track record of reform and economic growth. Poverty
declined from an estimated 54 percent in 1998 to 41 percent in 2006, led by growth in
rural areas. Economic growth was driven by expansion of cotton and cereal production to
record levels, making Burkina the number one cotton exporter in Sub-Saharan Africa in
2006. However, this tendency heightened the country's overdependence on cotton, which
continues to provide a livelihood for around 2.5 million Burkinabe and generate about



                                            6

two-thirds o f the country's export earnings. Burkina has maintained macroeconomic
stability, aided by fiscal discipline and aid in-flows equivalent to 10-14 percent of GDP,
but the macroeconomic situation remains fragile due to weak domestic revenue
mobilization and vulnerability to exogenous shocks. In2007, heavy rain flooded 100,000
acres in 20 provinces out of 45, thus making more than 100,000 people, particularly
children, vulnerable to risingfood prices.

6.      Project Background: The original Credit in the amount of SDR 25.6 million
(US$32.6 million equivalent) was approved on January 22, 2002. It became effective on
October 28, 2002, and the original closing date was December 31, 2006, which was
extended to June 30, 2008 inMay 2006. It i s executed under a Specific Investment Loan
(SIL) for a total project cost estimated at appraisal at US96.2 million equivalent for the
first phase of the program, of which the GoBF was expected to finance US$16.4 million
equivalent and US$47.2 million by the donor community. The objective of the Project is to
assist the Recipient in its efforts to implement the Program, which includes: (i)improve the
access to, and quality of, basic education; (ii)strengthen the education sector's financial
sustainability; and (iii)enhance the financial management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring,
evaluation and donor coordination of Ministry of Basic Education. In 2006, the Project was
restructured to allow for more donor coordination and harmonization and to streamline
funds disbursement into a pooled account inthe national treasury to reduce the burdenon
the Ministry and mitigate its weak institutional and implementation capacity. The
restructuringalso included a 24-month extension of the credit closing date.

7.      Project oversight i s the responsibilityof the MEBA. Implementationo f the
activities i s and will continue to be carried out by a variety of actors at different
organizational levels, including Regional directorates at the deconcentrated levels.
Regional Steering Committees (CRP) will oversight implementationprocesses at the
regional and provincial levels.

8.      The project has initially three components: (a) Improving Access to Basic
Education through the (i)     construction and rehabilitation of primary schools; (ii)girls
education and improving students' nutrition and health status; (iii)adult literacy
programs (iv) special needs education for out of school children; and (v) early childhood
development; (b) Improving Quality and Efficiency of Basic Education through (i)
reforming the curriculum; (ii)improving the pre- and in-service teacher training
programs; (iii)  the provision of pedagogical materials, including for pre-K schools; and
(iv) support of school-based quality initiatives; and (c) Improvina management and
building capacity of the MEBA through increasing its productivity and capacity to
manage resources and to move towards a decentralized sector planning and management.
At restructuring all the remaining funds were transferred to Annual Work programs
(AWP) for (i) improvement of access to basic education; (ii) improvement of
                 the                                                      the
quality and efficiency of basic education; and (iii)institutional and administrative
capacity buildingo f MEBA.The funds of the additional financing will also be allocatedto the
financing of activities included in the AWP. However, Bank financing will be channeled
through a designated account in a commercial bank to support targeted activities o f the
AWP.



                                                7

9.      Project Performance: Project implementation started slowly but has progressed
satisfactorily since the restructuring of the project. Overall project implementation i s
going well. IDA i s working closely with the GoBF and other donors to ensure that the
Project Development Objective i s reached. Over the past 12 months, the ISR ratings for
Implementation Progress (IP) and Development Objective (DO) have been satisfactory
andmoderately satisfactory, respectively.

10.     Despite weak institutional and implementation capacity at the beginning of the
project, the latest data on PDO indicators o f December 2007 (Appendix C), show that
gross primary enrollment ratio has exceeded its end-of-project target with 67% at the
national level (target is 63%) and 55% at the provincial level (target i s 52%). The other
three indicators are showing positive trends against their target values, with: (i)     the
percentage o f students completing primary education at 39% (from 33.5% in 2005) at the
national level (target is 48%); (ii) repetition ratio at 13% (target i s 10%); and (iii)
                                    the                                                  an
increase in the percentage of the recurrent budget allocated to basic education, which i s
now, excluding salaries, 26% (target i s 30%). Though more improvement i s needed, the
quality o f education has a positive trend as revealed by the increase o f students
completing primary education from 33.5 in 2005 to 39 percent in 2008. Teacher
recruitment and their assignment to rural areas, as well as in service training programs
have had a positive impact on learning outcomes. The Ministry has agreed on an annual
planto improve significantly achievement and repetitionrates.

11.     The performance of the MEBA has been satisfactory.              The project is in
compliance with all covenants specified in the Amended and Restated Development
Credit Agreement and has effectively followed the agreed financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and safeguard requirements. Procurement and disbursement
picked up significantly after the restructuring of the project. However, there are concerns
with the use of ICB procedures on procurement where prior review of the Bank has not
been carried (paragraphs 28-30). The management of the project, which has been
transferred to the Secretary General of the ministry since its restructuring, i s now
effective and is showing sound leadership in terms of project management and donor
coordination. As of March 2008, the undisbursed balance was SDR 5.48 million (US$8.6
million equivalent), and the remaining20% of the total original credit is committed.

12.     Rationalefor Additional Financing: The Bank's support is particularly relevant
given that the Bank has always played a major role in policy dialogue in the education
sector. To strengthen its policy dialogue among stakeholders, the GoBF has requested
that the Bank conduct an education sector review which will be the basis for updating the
education sector reform and its strategy inorder to readjust the national program for the
development of the entire education sector. The ESR i s being finalized and there is a
strong need for a continued policy dialogue to implement findings from the report.
Therefore, the Bank's support to the entire sector is crucial in ensuring sound
implementation of the ESR conclusions and for fostering a constructive policy dialogue
among all stakeholders to support the country's efforts toward achieving the MDGs.




                                             8

13.     Inaddition, the GoBFhas requested that the Bank supports the implementation of
a targeted safety net program through school feeding program to mitigate dropout risks in
a time of food crisis due to rising prices and exogenous shocks. The additional financing
will provide the opportunity to target vulnerable areas which havebeen affected by recent
flood and where children are likely to dropout from school and parents less willing to
invest in children's schooling. The targeted intervention will support the program's
objectives through a school feeding program intendedfor about 200,000 children, which
will reduce considerably dropout and repetition rate, as it will increase gross intake rate
infirst grade inthese areas. Additional activities are therefore necessary, and have been
plannedby Government. At present, the GoBF i s unable to provide sufficient funding to
finance the proposed activities, particularly school-based quality improvement and
teacher support, as well as school feeding programs, whose impact on access and
retention of poor childreninprimary school i s high. Hence, additional financing from the
Bank is essential to help consolidate and expand gains in order to meet the Program
Development Objectives.


C. PROPOSEDCHANGES

14.     The revised project development objective is to assist the Borrower in its efforts
to implement the Program, which includes: (i)      improving the access to, and quality of,
basic education; (ii) strengtheningthe education sector's financial sustainability; and (iii)
enhancing the financial management, budgeting, procurement, monitoring, evaluation
and donor coordination o f MEBA. The Program refers to the full term of the recipient's
basic education ten-year program instead o f its first phase only.

15.     The additional financing (AF)i s not intendedto support activities under the first
three components a, b, and c of the original project. The additional financing i s intended
to finance targeted activities under The Annual Work Program starting with the second
semester of 2008 until the end of the first semester 2010. The activities proposed for
additional financing to be includedinthe AWP are:                  -

     a) Improving access and expanding coverage of basic education through scaling up
        ongoing activities such as school construction, and updating facilities in existing
        schools to provide latrines and water, as well as kindergarten facilities in40 rural
        communities (Bisongo) and support for around 2,000 students with speech and
        hearing impairment. The additional financing will have a focus on encouraging
        girls' education and mothers' associations as well as providing nutritional safety
        net for 200,000 children through school canteens, particularly for students from
        poor families and rural areas in 15 provinces for two school years (2008-2009
        and 2009-2010). It is expected that School canteens will receive at least $5
        million of the additional financing.

     b) Improving quality, efficiency, and relevance of basic education through
        curriculum enhancement, teacher training and teaching materials, support to 500
        projects on school-based quality improvement as well as for lower secondary
        schools in the 15 provinces to be covered by the school feeding program, and


                                             9

         textbooks provision for pre-K schools. Since MEBA has acquired and distributed
         more than 8 million textbooks for primary education, the focus will be on
         printingand distributingPre-Kschool teaching materialproducedlocally.

     c) Strengthening     sector     management and monitoring       in the   context of
         decentralization of basic education services, through supporting decentralized
         management, upgrading materials, and strengthening data collection and analysis.
         Inspectors inthe circonscription d'kducation de base (CEB) o f the 15 provinces
         will be enabled to provide better pedagogic support and direct control to school
         headmasters and teachers.

16.     Activities to be financed under the additional financing are expected to be
completed by September 30, 2010. As such, an extension of the closing dates of both the
initial and additional credits i s proposed untilMarch31, 2011(33 months extension).

17.     The AF will use the same implementation and coordination mechanism already in
place within MEBA, except for the flow of funds which will be through a designated
account following parallel financing arrangements, at least for a transitory period. The
General Secretary and the Administrative and Financial Directorate (Direction de
1'Administration et des Finances, DAF) are responsible for daily management of the
special account as well as the pooled funds where the Bank was initially disbursing. The
financing mechanisms are presented in Appendix A. All activities to be financed under
the program by all donors will be included in the Annual Work Program which i s
approved by donors. The implementation of the activities will continue to be reviewed
twice a year during the joint supervision missions as agreed with donors and the MEBA.

18.     Costs:The original cost of first phase of the program was estimated at appraisal at
US$96.2 million equivalent, o f which the GoBF was. expected to finance US$16.4
million equivalent and US$47.2 million by the donor community. The second phase of
the program, which the additional financing will support, i s estimated at US$650 million
equivalent based on the MTEF for the period of 2008-2010.             The Government's
contribution i s around 50% of the total cost of each annual work plan (according to the
Fast Track Initiative framework); Donors will contribute US$204.3 million, of which the
Bank contribution is estimated at US$15 million. Based on the assumption that the GoBF
will finance 50% o f the total budget, the estimated actual financing gap is US$120.0
million expected to be financed through the Fast Track Initiative (FTI). Appendix B
presents the original and additional financing of the Program of the Bank.

D. CONSISTENCYWITHTHE CAS AND THE PRSP

19.     The Basic Education Sector Project and the additional financing are entirely
consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the CAS priorities for
the period 2006-2009 as they aim to increase the educational level of the rural population
and to incorporate cross-cutting issues of capacity building, gender and decentralization.
The additional financing will enhance policy dialogue as it will speed up progress
towards the intermediate indicators to track implementation towards expected CAS



                                              10

outcomes. The new indicators for primary education adopted for the PRSP in March
2008, reflect the indicators for the program.



E. APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES

20.     The Bank has completed appraisal of the economic, financial, technical, fiduciary,
environmental, and social aspects of the proposed additional activities. Appraisal has
confirmed that all institutional arrangements are set, fiduciary controls are in place, and
the Borrower is ready and has adequate capacity to implement additional activities. The
2004 Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, as revised in 2006, will apply.            The
implementation systems are expected to continue to operate satisfactorily during the
remainder o f the project.

21.    Economic analysis: The Government's 10-Year Program is an integral part of
the country's poverty reduction strategy.         The expansion of basic education i s
fundamental to increasing economic growth through higher productivity and to
empowering the poor to participate in and benefit from growth. In a country where the
average education of the labor force i s 4.3 years, where only 40% of children complete
primary education, and where only 30% of the population is literate, higher levels of
educational attainment are central to growth and poverty reduction.

22.     Based on estimates of the cost of providing basic education and estimates of
opportunity costs, the private rate of return to primary education i s estimated at 15% and
the social rate o f return at 45%. These are minimumrates of return as they do not capture
the many well established positive externalities associated with education such as
positive effects on population, health, and civil society participation.

23.     When aggregating the improvements in both retention and repetition, it i s
expected that the efficiency index of student flow would improve from an observed
figure of about 65% in 1999 to an estimated figure of 79% in2011. The efficiency index
of studentflow i s observed at 72% for 2008.

24.     Technical analysis: The project design of the on-going project is technically
sound. The project files contain various technical notes and reports preparedby the Bank,
the Government and various donors. Within the poverty agenda, the project
systematically has addressedthe issues of access, quality and equity on the basis of need,
opportunities, and comparative advantages. It also addressed capacity building in the
context of the Government's decentralization and deconcentration policy. The additional
financing will address the same issues by increasing the targets and leveraging policy
dialogue. The project components were prepared according to technical and economic
studies as well as lessons learned during the past years, and regional and international
norms and practices. They will be implemented within acceptable standards. Innovations
such as the delivery of literacy programs by non-public providers and school-based
quality programs are based on sound technical studies and sub-regional experience.



                                             11

25.     Financial Management: The Additional Financing will be executed by the
existing implementation mechanism already inplace within the General Secretary andthe
Administrative and Financial Directorate (Direction de 1'Administration et des Finances,
DAF) within MEBA. It i s worth noting that the DAF capacity and control environment
has been reinforced by the following measures: (i)    appointment of dedicated staffs inthe
Ministry of Finances to closely monitor project payments, and (ii)     training of staff on
disbursement procedures.

26.     Arrangements related to financial management will be streamlined to take into
account the risks related to delays and inadequacies in submitting Interim un-audited
Financial Reports (IFRs), as well as the needto use ICB above the agreed threshold.

        To that extent, the following changes will be made inthe financial arrangement:

        A designated account will be opened at the Central Bank. This account will be
        usedto transfer funds into a commercial bank account. The latter account will be
        used to finance targeted activities under the Annual Work Program for four
        semesters (encompassing three AWP) starting with the second semester of 2008
        untilthe endof the first semester 2010 as described inthe section C of the present
        document. The funds in the designated account will not go into the pooling
        account.

        The disbursement method will continue be the report-based. The IFR will be
        submitted90 days after the endof each semester. Two statements will be addedto
        the current IFR: the statement of sources and use of funds. The statement will be
        set up to account for the additional financing. In addition, for replenishment
        purpose, a reconciliation of the designated account will be provided to the
        Disbursement department. To improve the IFR quality, the Bank will provide
        close support and training to the financial and accounting staff in the preparation
        of acceptable IFR.

        The external auditors' terms of reference will be amended before startingauditing
        the 2008 national fiscal year, to take into account the changes above. Thus, the
        auditors will express an opinion on the designatedaccount.

        Procurement: Based on the work plan agreed between the Bank andthe GoBF on
Procurement, the ministry of economy i d finance (MoEF) has put in place a specific
unit within MEBA, in replacement of the unit located within the DEP, to handle all
procurement activities of the ministry. The new unit, composed of former procurement
staff o f the DEP and procurement specialist from the MoEF, i s mostly familiar with
national procedure (this Ministry i s the biggest in term of public procurement conducted
a year). Given the lack of familiarity of the MEBA staff with IDA policies and
procedures, it is important that the PS o f the DEP is given a more active role in IDA
financed procurement. The following actions have been identified and will be taken
urgently to strengthen the capacity of MEBA under the project: (i)Conduct the
Independent Procurement Review (IPR) planed for FY08 in order to have an opinion on
quality of procurement done so far under the project; (ii)   organize a training on World



                                             12

Bank procurement procedures (in a specialized training center) for at least two
procurement staff from MEBA's procurement unit and ensuring that all project legal
documents are provided to the MEBA's procurement unit; (iii)use Bank Standard
Documents incase o f International Biddingprocess.

29.     Concerns have been raised about procurement following the Project restructuring
inMay 2006 to allow for more donor coordination and harmonization and to streamline
funds into a pooled account inthe national treasure with sevenother donors. The current
Bankpolicy does not allow the use of country systems on ICB procurement and selection
of consultants. Eventhough there was no ICB procurement forecasted, the MOU needed
to be amended to allow for prior review of ICB procurement and selection of consultants
by IDA or for segregating IDA funds. With other donors contributing more into the
pooled basket funds, and the fact that AWP can not be known several years in advance,
there i s a risk that ICB procurementlselection of consultants would be used without
Bank's prior review, which may result inmisprocurement.

30.     Activities listed under this additional funding have no ICB package planned.
Nevertheless, due to the fact that the list in Appendix F would not account for all
activities to be financed under AWP in the program there is no guarantee that no
International Competitive Bidding package will be planned to be financed in the future
by the pooling basket. Based on the above mentioned, it appears that the risk of using
IDA funds for ICB through country system is High.Inorder to mitigate this risk and
while clarifying with other donors on the existing pooling mechanism, IDA has decided
to setup a parallel financing and use the Bank procurement procedures for the additional
financing.

31.     Social analysis:A social assessment was conducted in 2000 in the context of the
Basic Education Sector Project preparation and in 2007 in the context of the ongoing
Education Sector Review. A household survey was also conducted during the period
2003-2006. The mainfindings are economic costs, opportunity costs particularly for girls,
and a high level of mobility. Burkinabe relocate frequently for employment, education,
or marriage opportunities. 28% o f the population 10 years or older (of whom more than
half are females) have migrated at least once. Consequently, project activities will
include: (i) giving priority to rural areas and poverty-stricken urban areas and to the
twenty provinces determined to have the lowest education coverage o f the country; (ii)
endeavoring to enroll and retain more girls through specific actions such as hiring more
female teachers, improving physical access to schools (constructing three-classroom
modules, so that six grades can be offered using multigrade teaching), providing running
water and separate sanitary facilities for girls; (iii)
                                                     providing schools inmore locations so
people who move will be able to continue their education; (iv) developing new
approaches for non-formal education programs tailored to women, rural poor, and out-of
school children; (v) expanding nutrition and school canteen programs as motivation for
enrollment in poor areas; (vi) providing textbooks and school supplies free of charge to
alleviate the costs incurred by parents (over 10,000 CFA per student per year in third
grade); (vii) reduce opportunity costs to parents with a flexible school calendar that
avoids overlap with peak rural activity periods.



                                              13

32.    Environmental analysis: The original project i s          rated Category B for
environmental and social purposes. The requested additional financing is the same as the
original IDA Credit. It i s designed to have beneficial impacts on the population interms
of better service delivery and improved living conditions. An Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) were
updatedand redisclosed by the Government. The final ESMF and RPFwere redisclosed
in-country on February 25, 2008 and at the Bank's Infoshop April 4, 2008. Potential
negative impacts will be mitigated during the design phase and mitigation measures will
be included in the works contracts. If needed, environmental assessments (EAs) and
resettlement action plans (RAPS)will be prepared according to Bank's guidelines (OPBP
4.01 and 4.12) as part of the preliminary design stage so that recommendations can be
integrated into detailed design and bidding documents. In accordance with ASPEN,
safeguard responsibilityhas been transferred to AFTH2.

The implementing agency is the Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy and is
alreadyfamiliar with Environmental and Socialguidelines andprocedures.

33.    Harmonization and Sustainability. The first phase of support to the
Government's Basic Education Sector Development Program, has enabled the MEBA to
establish a process of harmonization among key development partners in the sector
through a harmonization framework which uses national systems by supporting their
improvement to international standards levels. This includes: (a) joint supervision and
review missions o f PTFs and government; (b) oversight by the MEBA of donors
interventions, which have contributed to ensuring consistency of the interventions with
the Government's Program; and (c) signing and implementing a M o U which governs
collaboration on all aspects of the program. The second phase will continue to further
support the MEBA through policy dialogue towards the improvement of national
fiduciary mechanisms to allow the progressive use the country's Public Financial
Management Systems includingprocurement.

34.     Harmonization will promote long-term sustainability as it has allowed
improvement on governance, decentralization, budgetmg, and sector management.
Sustainability will be ensured through: (i)   continued government budget commitment
over the long term; (ii)   development o f communes' capacity to manage schools, and
MEBA to constantly monitor quality and efficiency of learning outcomes and to take
remedial measures as necessary; and (iii)     continued implementation of cost effective
measures such as communities and NGOs involvement inschool construction.

F. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

35.    At the time of project's restructuring in 2006, the Bank, the Donors, and the
Government agreed to revise the indicators o f the results framework. The KPIs were
revised to reflect a better linkage with project activities. They are also more specific,
measurable, and outcome-based. They are part of the indicators used by the MEBA for
monitoring its activities and are related to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
andthe new Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP) then under preparation.



                                             14

36.    Recent data (March 2008) on PDO indicators show that gross primary enrollment
ratio has exceeded its end-of-project target with 67% at the national level (target is 63%)
and 55% at the provincial level (target i s 52%). The other three indicators are showing
positive trends with regards to their target values: (i)
                                                       percentage of students completing
primary education is at 39% at the national level (target is 48%); (ii)  repetition ratio at
13% (target i s 10%); and (iii)increase in percentage of recurrent budget to basic
education, excluding salaries, is 24% (target i s 30%). Additionally, the pace of school
constructionhas improved, with more than75% of schools completed.

37. The Results Framework as revised in May 2006 i s therefore maintained for the
purpose of the second phase of the program to better measure the original and the scale-
up activities of the program. Targets have been updated to take into account progress to
date, the scale-up activities, and the extension of the closing date. The Results
Framework with the revised targets i s presented in Appendix C. The program will
monitor indicators in Appendix C which will reflect contribution made by all donors
(including the Bank) and the GoBF toward the achievement of the PDO. The linkages
betweenthe specific outputs financed by the Bank with this Additional Financing andthe
overall Program Results Framework are outlined inAppendix D.

G. BENEFITSAND RISKS

38.    Benefits: The second phase of the program will continue to support the
Government's Basic Education Sector Development Program and build on the results
achieved under the first phase, progressively expanding and improving the basic
education sector. Specific benefits from the scale-up activities include:

       School construction will further contribute to improve the gross primary
       enrollment rate currently at 67% (target for 2010 i s 78%), the gross intake rate at
       first grade from 78% (target for 2010 i s 88%), and the primary achievement rate
       of 39% (target for 2010 i s 45%). School canteens will not only contribute to
       improving these indicators, but also support vulnerable children in poor families
       inrural areasand girls byproviding anutritional safety net.            -


       Strengthening o f sector management and monitoring will provide management
       improvement to lay the foundation for a sustainable education sector program in
       the context of decentralization.

       Providing training, curriculum enhancement, and pedagogical materials will
       contribute to greater learning outcomes.

39.    Risks: The scaling up proposed under the Additional Financing poses limited
anticipated additional risks, besides those already identified for the ongoing Project and
for which mitigation measures have been successfully adopted during the course of its
implementation. The main institutional and capacity constraints encountered in the early
stages o f the project are related to fiduciary management, particularly ICB related
procurement. To mitigate these risks, the procurement team has agreed with MEBA to
conduct an IPR during FY08 (the report i s expected mid-June) to assess the extent to


                                            15

which support i s needed by the MEBA team and train at least two staffs from MEBA on
Bank's procurement procedures. A Risk Identification Worksheet is attached in
Appendix D.

H. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONREADINESS

40.      Fiduciary arrangement: The fiduciary system inplace is functional andjudged
satisfactory for the additional funding.

41.      Project Staff: All staff, with adequate qualifications and skills, is in place to
fulfill their respective responsibilities for the second phase. Additional training in IDA
procurement policies and procedures will be provided for the staff o f MEBA procurement
unit.

42.      Procurement plan for the first 12 months of activities: A procurement Plan
was submittedon May 2,2008 and found satisfactory by IDA. .

43.      Disclosure requirements: All disclosure arrangements have been met. The
Project Information Document and the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet have been
disclosed.

44.      ResultsAssessments arrangementscompleted.TheResultFramework has been
discussed and agreed upon with the Government and the Development Partners. No
changes are required though targets have been revised to reflect the implementation
period of the second phase of the program which the additional financing i s contributing
to support (July 2008-June 2010) and the scaling-up of activities. The Directorate o f
planning and studies (DEP) will continue to monitor the result framework using already
existing and tested system.

I.FINANCIALTERMSANDCONDITIONSFORADDITIONALFINANCING

45.      The Additional financing o f US$l5.0 million equivalent would be provided as a
Credit. The only condition of effectiveness i s the receipt of a legal opinion certifying that
the Additional Financing Agreement has been duly authorized and executed by Burkina
Faso and i s legally bindinginaccordance with its terms.




                                               16

     BURKINA FASOBASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT

                  ADDITIONAL FINANCING



APPENDIX A: FINANCING MECHANISMS FOR THE BASICEDUCATION
                     SECTOR PROGRAM



                          Flow of Funds




                   Credit Account World Bank
                          Washington
           I
                  Fundstransfers     1'
                                      A                      I




                             Replenishmentrequests through
                             reliableIFR via an authorized
                             representativeof the Ministry of
                      I      Economy and Finances




                       Basic Education
                     Designated Account
                          inBCEAO




                        Paymentsfrom the
                      account in a commercial
                               Bank




                Suppliers of Goods and Services


                                 17

            BURKINAFASOBASICEDUCATIONSECTOR PROJECT




                           APPENDIX B: PROJECT COSTS




     Cost by Component            OriginalPAD      ProposedIDA Additional
                                                         Financing
ImprovingAccess to Basic                  64.6
Education
ImprovingQuality and                      23.6
Efficiency of Basic Education
ImprovingManagement and                    8.0
Building Capacity
AnnualWork Program                                            15.0
Total                                     96.2                15.0




                                       18

        APPENDIX C:REVISEDRESULTSFRAMEWORKFORTHE PROGRAM


                       2001    2005        2008        2008     2009     2010

    Indicators        Baseline Actual   Actual 11     Target    Target   Target



Gross primary           42      56          67          63       75       78
enrollment ratio

                              "
Gross primary           43      70          78          76       84       88
enrollment at first
grade ratio

Percentage of           23      33.5        36          40       45       51
students completing
primary education

Increase inthe                 24,203     26,000        n.a.    28,000   30,000
number o f public
classrooms

                                Oualitv of Basic Education


Mathematics             1:5                                               1:l
textbook per                                                               -

primary school
student ratio

Reading textbook        1:6                                      1:l      1:l
per primary school                                            I
student ratio
                     I
Repetition ratio     I 18.2                                               10



Increase inthe         7,614   9,127      12,000      12,000    12,000   12,000
number o f public
multigrade
teaching




                                             19

                        2001    2005    2008      2008     2009    2010

    Indicators         Baseline Actual Actual 11 Target   Target   Target

Increase inthe          18,176  20,636  26,598    23,500  28,000   30,000
number of public
teachers actually
teaching

Decrease inthe          13,561  11,190  7,500     7,500   7,000    4,000
number of public
double shift
teaching

Increase inthe            18     18      30        30       30      30
percentage of
recurrent budget
allocated to basic
education excluding
salaries (Titles I11
and IV)

     Source: MEBA, March2008.




                                           20

APPENDIX D: OBJECTIVESAND ACTIVITIES SUPPORTEDBY THE ADDITIONAL
                                       FINANCING

SPECIFIC
3BJEcTIvEs
3F THE          THEADDITIONAL    suppoRTED By OUTPUTSFINANCED BY THE
                FINANCING                             ADDITIONALFINANCING


?enera1Objective 1 :Increase access to Basic education, including kindergarten


Specific                                                  - 16public schools inrural areas

3bjective 1.1                                             constructed and equipped


`mprove Gross   Buildprimary schools, especially in       - 40 community basedpreschool
Tnrollment Rate rural areas to reduce distance to and     constructed and equipped

`GER) in Basic  from schools, as well as community

?ducation,      basedpreschools.                          - 10latrines inexisting schools

`ncluding                                                 constructed and equipped
cindergarten                                              - 10forages inexisting schools
                Involve beneficiaries and local
                authorities (communes) inthe
                monitoring of civil works activities.

                Strengthen the monitoring in civil works Communities training with
                activities by regionallevels              participation of NGOs

                Delegate contract managementof civil
                works at regional level with NGOs
                participation.
                Develop school canteens inareas with
                low education coverage and vulnerable                                      -
                population                                200,000 children with access to school
                                                          canteens

                Strengthen school canteenuolicv.
                Develop and implement strategiesfor       Develop mothers' associations and
                girls retention                           activities for girls retention

                Pay fees of temporary recruitedlower
                secondary school teachers.                150number of teacher months paid

                                                          Tuitionfees for girls inpublic lower
                hcrease allocation for secondary school   secondary schools in 15 provinces
                operating expenses to offset tuition fees eliminated
                for girls.




                                             21

                    Raise awareness o f the population       Awareness and mobilization
                    (beneficiaries).                         campaigns reaching schools in 15
                                                             Drovinces
                    StrengthenMothers' associations and
                    community participation in school        Schools in 15 provinces.
                    management.



SPECIFIC
OBJECTIVES                          suppoRTED BY        OUTPUTSFINANCED BY THE
OF THE              THEADDITIONAL                       ADDITIONALFINANCING
PROGRAM             FINANCING

General Objective 2 :Improve quality in Basic education, including kindergarten

Specijk Objective 2.2    Improve distribution system o f     Learning material kits for Preschools
                         learningmaterials to schools.       distributed to 100Pre-Schools.
hcrease the
zvailability of learning Print and distribute learning
material in basic        material to Pre-Schools.
oducation including in
w-eschools.
Ypecific Objective 2.3   Reinforce administrative and
                         pedagogic monitoring o f students,  Country wide
rmproveprofessional      schools. and teachers.
7erjormance of                                               teachers and pedagogic staff
reachers throughpre      Strengthen capacity o f teachers to (inspectors, advisors) trained on
2nd in-service training conduct learningassessments.         learning outcome assessments inthe
2nd betterfield                                              15 provinces
Ynonitoring              Strengthen administrative,          Teachers and pedagogic staff
                         management, and pedagogic           (inspectors, advisors) administrative
                         capacity o f school teachers.       and pedagogic management inthe 15
                                                             Drovinces.

                         Support curriculum development      curriculum updateddeveloped

                         and training for teachers.          Teachers trained.



                         Mobilize and develop school-
                         based teacher study groups          Documents and tools to support school

                         (Groupes d'animation                orientation programs elaborated.

                         pkdagogique) and initiate school
                         pedagogic projects                  500 GAP will be financed
Ypecijk Objective 2.4
                         Elaborate school health and
Develop school health, nutrition policy, including           School health and nutrition policy
zutrition and HIV-       response to HIV-AIDS.               developed.

4IDS vrom-am



                                                22

SPECIFIC
OBJECTIVES OF           THEADDITIONAL    suppoRTED         OUTPUTSFINANCED BY THE
THE PROGRAM             FINANCING                          ADDITIONAL FINANCING

GeneralObjective 3: Strengthen the steering, management, and evaluation capacity of central and
decentralized structures
Specific           Increase and strengthen system o f Credit to public secondary schools delegated
Objective 3.1      delegation of credit to public
                   secondary schools.
Strengthen
MEBA and MAS
delegation to
accompany
decentralization
process
Specific           Carry out administrative and       Training plans inplace at public schools
Objective 3.2      management staff training plan.    administrative and management staff trained
                                                      inthe 15 provinces
Improve            Implement results-based            Performance management system used in
administrative     performance management system      public schools inthe 15 provinces
and management inpublic schools.
capacity of        Update administrative staff
primary            Eapacity to closely monitor
education          teachers at school level.




                                                23

                BURKINA FASOBASICEDUCATIONSECTORPROJECT




                  APPENDIX E:RISKIDENTIFICATIONWORKSHEET

                           RiskIdentificationWorksheet



                                Description of risk              Risk     Mitigation measures
                                                                Rating'
                                                                Residual
                                                                 risk
                          Unfavorableeconomic conditions         M/M           Government has
Conditions                exacerbated by exogenous conditions                  implemented
                          which will negatively impact on                      economic reforms.
                          social sectors budget allocation and                 The project policy
                          aggravate vulnerability o f poor                     measures and
                          families.                                            component are
                                                                               designed to protect
                                                                               social sectors.
                                                                               School canteens
                                                                               will be
                                                                               implemented in
                                                                               affected areas to
                                                                               help mitigate the
                                                                             . impact o f rising
                                                                               living cost on
                                                                               vulnerable children.
11. Sector
Governance,
Policies and
Institutions
Implementation            Communes may not have the capacity     M/M           Strengthen the
capacity and              to implement and manage the                          capacity, already
sustainability inthe      program on a daily basis in the                      started, o f staff and
context of                context of the decentralized law                    NGOs
decentralization          adopted in 2006                                     Provide adequate
                          Education supervisors and advisors                  resources and
                          may not visit teachers frequently or                 support to enable
                          give them adequate support and                      the supervisors and
                          guidance.                                           advisors to carry
                                                                              out their
                                                                              responsibilities.
                                                                            0 Provide training
                                                                              programs and
                                                                              capacity



                                            24

                                                                        strengthening
                                                                        support to the
                                                                        control and
                                                                        supervision unit of
                                                                        the MEBA to
                                                                        closely monitor and
                                                                        guide the work of
                                                                        the communes.
Procurement                Country Procurement system does not   S      An agreed action
                           meetthe international standardwith           plan i s being
                           regard to ICB.                               implementedand
                                                                        closely monitored
                                                                        inthe context of the
                                                                       PublicProcurement
                                                                        reform.
Financial                  Delays and inadequacies in           M     0 TheBankhas
Management                 submittingInterimun-audited                  agreed to provide
                           Financial Reports (IFRs)                     close support and
                                                                        training to the
                                                                        financial and
                                                                        accounting staff
                                                                        inthe preparation
                                                                        o f acceptable
                                                                        IFRs
IV. OverallRisk (includingReputationalRisks)

  M=Modest
  S = Substantial




                                            25

BURKINA FASOBASICEDUCATIONSECTOR PROJECT




                        APPENDIX F:PROCUREMENTTABLE

                          Goods and works and non-consulting services



-1             2              3                                       6         7            8
Ref.      Contract         Estimate                                Domesti   Review       Expected
No.    (Description)          d            Method                     C      by Bank       Bid-
                            cost                                   Preferen  (Prior I     Opening
                            (US$       NCB                           ce       Post)        Date
-                           000)                                   (yeslno)
 1    Construction and       615                                     NO       NO       2009 12010
     equipment of 16 rural
           schools1

-
2     Constructionof 10       89            NCB                      NO       YES      200912010
           latrines
3      Realizationand         96            NCB                      NO       Y E S    200912010
       equipment of 10
            Forage
4     Construction and        80         NCB using                                         2009
       equipment of 10                  local contracts
     school canteens in 10                  at the
         ruralschools                     provincial
                                             level
5     Construction and       120         NCB using                   NO       NO         - 2010
       equipment of 15                  local contracts
     school canteensin 15                   at the
         rural schools                    provincial
                                             level
 6    Acquisition of 20       90            NCB                      NO       YES -    200812009
-        motorcvcles

-
7     Acquisition of 20       90            NCB                      NO       YES          2010
         motorcycles
 8   Contracts for School   4.000        Consultation      Limited  YES       YES          2009
       feeding program                   with NGOs         competi
                                           (limited          tive
                                         competitive        biding
                                        biding among
                                            NGOs
                                         working on
                                       school canteen
                                        management)




Communitieswhere schools will be built are not yet identified.



                                                26

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33379

by                              The                                            and                                              on                                                  the                                                  or                                                                                           N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
                                   of                                                                  shown                                           Bank                            on                                                                   such

                                                                                                                                  imply,                                                                   territory,
                                     Unit
  produced                                            boundaries,
                                                                                                                                        not                World                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     any
                                                                 The
          was                                                                                                                              do                   The                      judgment                       of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To                Dosso
                                         Design                                                             information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ASOF
                                                                    Bank.         denominations                                                                    of                                                                      endorsement
                                                                                                                                             map                                                 any
             map                               Map                                                                     other                    this                 part                                                 status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any

                This                              the                    World                 colors,                      any                     on                   the                        Group,                      legal                    or       acceptance     boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To                       Parakou                                                                                                                  ALS                          AL                                                                                                                                              BOUNDARIES

                    E2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E2                                                                                                                            CAPIT                       CAPIT                                                                                               BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NIGER                                           Niger                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a                                                              Diapaga                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ru BENIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE                          NA               RIVERS                MAIN                       RAILROADS                        PROVINCE                                        INTERNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APOAT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To     Niamey                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To                        Djougou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ibuoroG                                                                                                                                                                                                  G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BURKINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          abriS                                                                                                  ri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sebba            AGHAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOMPIENGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOMONDJARI                                            GayGayri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To                 Sokid

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Fada                         N'Gour                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GOURMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ouargaye
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dori                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOSNOS                                                                                                                            BogandBogand                                                                                                                                                                                             la                                                                                                                                                                               KOULPKOULPLOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GNAGNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KoupKoupla


                                                                                                                                                                            OUDALAN                                                                                         Gorom                      Gorom                                                                              AGNETNEMAN                                                                                                                                                                                               Boulsa                                                                                                                                                             KOURITENGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOULGOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  enkodogoT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To                     amaleT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zorgo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TENGA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Blanche                                                                                                                                                                                                  OGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Manga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GANZOURGOU      Volta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kilometers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUM                                                                                  SANMA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Po
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kaya                                                                                                                                      ZiniarZiniar                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA                    ZOUNDW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZOUNDWOGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GHANA                                               100                                                           60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BAZBAZGA   Rouge                                                                                                                               NAOURI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Djibo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OUBRITENGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kombissiri olta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         06                                                         40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BAM                  Kongoussi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KADIOGO                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OGO               BoussBouss                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          04
                        W0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              itaoT                                                                                                                             KOURE-                           WOGOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZIRO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sapouy                                                                                   oLLo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a                                                                                                                                  akoY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OUAGADOUGOU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          02                                                      0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n Ouahigouya                                             Gourcy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASSORPASSOR                                                                                                                                       Koudougou                                                     BOULKIEMDBOULKIEMD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To    Bole
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MALI                                                                                  LOROUM                                              e                                                                   ZONDOMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RoRo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SISSILI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TENGAAY                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Volta              Noire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        omaT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SANGUISANGUI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ALAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BALBAL                                                                                                                                IOBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BatiBati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUROU                                                                                                                                              NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boromo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOUMBIEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ouganT                                                                                                                                                                  dougou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DdougouD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TUI                                                                     bougou                                                                            PONI               Gaoua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Koutouba

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MOUHOUN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DibougouDi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mopti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOUGOURIBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nouna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HoundHound
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KOSSI
                           W24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                                                                                                                                                  erioN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           atloV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BANW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bobo-           Dioulasso                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Solenzo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HOUET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KOMOKOMO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               omoK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Banfora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To     San                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BURKINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOUGOUNKKNDOUGOU                                                                              Orodara


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sindou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bouak


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LRABALRABA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Sgou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kourou                           (747                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12                                                                                                                                                    inuoguoB oT                                                                                   naT                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tna

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004

