Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3581 NEP
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Sector Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY
Dated February 5, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3581 NEP
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the NEPAL 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY (NTA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Page  2
the Kingdom of Nepal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,500,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that NTA agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NTA, a 
portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will 
be made available to NTA on the terms and conditions set forth in said Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS NTA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “NTA Performance 
Indicators” mean the agreed performance indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to 
be utilized by NTA to measure the progress in the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01.
(a) NTA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B 
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and telecommunications practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part 
B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower, the Association and NTA shall otherwise agree, NTA shall carry out Part 
B
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.
NTA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
Page  3
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
Section 2.04.
NTA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Grant Agreement.  
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, NTA shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05.
(a) NTA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NTA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NTA of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NTA
Section 3.01.
NTA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, regulatory and telecommunications practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02.
NTA shall at all times operate and maintain its premises, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, engineering, financial, regulatory 
and telecommunications practices.
Section 3.03.
NTA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) NTA shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Part B of the Project.
(b)
NTA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
Page  4
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, NTA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable NTA not later than April 30, 2003, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare trimesterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
eight-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the eight-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, NTA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar trimester, a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Page  5
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.
This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of NTA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03.
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01.
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Nepal Telecommunications Authority:
Nepal Telecommunications Authority
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu
Kingdom of Nepal
Facsimile:
(997-1) 260-400
Section 6.02.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
Page  6
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NTA, may be taken or executed 
by its Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall designate in writing, and 
NTA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi
Country Director
NEPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY 
By /s/ Bhoop Raj Pandey
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
under Part B of the Project
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (i) Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (ii) the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  7
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan under Part B of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement 
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract for goods.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (i) the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (ii) the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  8
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services for the supervision and certification of the Rural Telecommunications 
Service’s operator, the pilot information and communication technology access and the 
strengthening of the PMU under, respectively, Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(i) Training; and (ii) services under Part B.1 (iii) of the Project, except those for 
interconnection issues and tariffs reviews, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under Part B of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) training; and (ii) each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent 
of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
Page  9
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  Notwithstanding 
this provision, prior review by the Association shall still apply to: (i) the terms of reference for 
such contracts; (ii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; 
(iii) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms subject to the prior review 
provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Part D and raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above; (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms subject to the 
prior review provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of this Part D and raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The PMU
The PMU shall be vested with the responsibility of maintaining records and accounts 
under Part B of the Project, including the submission of trimesterly Project Management Reports 
to the PCU not later than April 15, August 15 and December 15 in each Fiscal Year.  To this end, 
NTA shall maintain within its organization the PMU throughout Project implementation under 
terms of reference and with human and financial resources adequate to enable it to carry out its 
responsibilities under Part B of the Project in a suitable and prompt manner.  The PMU shall be 
headed by a senior NTA official and supported by a technical specialist, an economist or a 
lawyer, and other relevant technical and support staff in adequate numbers.
2.
Monitoring and Certification of Roll-out Compliance
Promptly upon the award by NTA of the Rural Telecommunications Service (RTS) 
license, NTA shall certify on a quarterly basis to the Borrower and the Association, the RTS’ 
operator compliance with roll-out obligations as set forth in the license contract. 
3.
Mid-Term Review
NTA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the NTA Performance Indicators, the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  10
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2004 a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report, the continued validity of the Project design assumptions in light of the implementation 
experience and the evolving environment, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Borrower and the Association, by November 15, 2004 or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
