Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3581 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Telecommunications Sector Reform Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 5, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3581 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 2002, between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Page  2
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Nepal Telecommunications 
Authority (NTA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Credit) available to NTA, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NTA (the Project 
Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), 
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and- 2 -
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
Page  3
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the twelve (12) month period corresponding to 
any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences approximately on July 16 and ends 
on July 15 in each calendar year;
(d)
“Frequency Management Division” means the Frequency Management Division 
within the organization of the MOIC (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (f) of this Section) 
responsible for spectrum monitoring and management;
(e)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the NTA pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Grant 
Agreement; 
(f)
“MOIC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Information and Communications;
(g)
“MOIC Performance Indicators” mean the agreed performance indicators set 
forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower to measure the progress in 
the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being 
achieved; 
(h)
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Borrower established and 
operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as 
the same may be amended from time to time;
(i)
“Planning Section” means the Planning Section within the organization of the 
MOIC responsible for policy review and formulation;
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and NTA of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Coordination Unit” and “PCU” mean the Project Coordination Unit 
established and to be maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean the Project Management Unit 
established and to be maintained by NTA in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Regulations” means the Borrower’s Telecommunications Regulations, 2054 
(1997) as amended by the Telecommunications (First Amendment) Regulations, 2055 (1999), 
setting forth the policy guidelines and procedures for NTA’s operations, as amended to the date 
of this Agreement; 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  4
(p)
“Telecommunications Act” means the Borrower’s Telecommunications Act, 
2053 (1997), pursuant to which the NTA has been established and is operating as an autonomous 
corporate body to regulate the telecommunications sector, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(q)
“Village Development Committee” means the smallest territorial unit within any 
of the administrative districts of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01.
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
17,500,000).
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be September 1, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Page  5
Section 2.06.
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.
(a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1, commencing on June 1, 2012, and ending on December 1, 2041.  Each installment 
to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; 
and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph: (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph; (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Part A of 
Page  6
the Project through the MOIC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and telecommunications practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part 
A
of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Development Credit Agreement, shall cause NTA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NTA therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NTA to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available on a grant basis to NTA the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b) under a 
Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NTA under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for: (i) Part A of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out by NTA 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  8
Section 4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 30, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare trimesterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
eight-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the eight-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
trimester a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03.
The Borrower shall amend, not later than March 31, 2002, the 
Regulations so as to clearly vest on NTA the power to make its own financial administration 
Bye-Laws pursuant to the provisions of Section 62 of the Telecommunications Act.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
NTA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NTA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Telecommunications Act or the Regulations shall have been amended, 
Page  9
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
NTA to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions, namely, that the Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and NTA.
Section 6.02.
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or executed by NTA and is 
legally binding upon NTA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Grant Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower and NTA and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and NTA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Page  10
Kathmandu
Kingdom of Nepal
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ARTHA
2249-NEP
(977-1) 259-891
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Bimal Prasad Koirala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi
Country Director
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  11
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
100 % of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(a) under Part A
3,410,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B
of the Project
9,540,000
(2)
Consultants’
85%
services:
(a) under Part A
950,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B
1,340,000
of the Project
(3)
Training:
100%
(a) under Part A
210,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B
110,000
of the Project
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(4)
Incremental Opera-
350,000
80% in the first 
ting Costs
and second FYs, 
60% in the third and 
Page  12
fourth FYs, and 40%
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
1,590,000
TOTAL
17,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures to finance office 
furniture and supplies and fuel for vehicles necessary for the daily operation and maintenance of 
the PCU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and services of consulting 
firms, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent each; and (iii) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
the Nepal Rastra Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
Page  13
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
Page  14
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
Page  15
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the eight-month period following the date of such report; provided, 
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project 
Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening and implementing 
the policy, legal and regulatory framework of its telecommunications sector to facilitate 
competition and private participation, including increasing rural access to services by 
encouraging private investment and operations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of the MOIC 
Strengthening of the MOIC’s policy and spectrum management functions, with a focused 
support to: (i) its Planning Section so as to allow it to carry out effectively its policy function; (ii) 
its Frequency Management Division in order to allow it to manage efficiently and monitor the 
radio spectrum; and (iii) the PCU, including capacity building and equipment as required 
therefor.  Specifically, this Part A encompasses the following activities:
Page  16
1.
Strengthening of MOIC’s Planning Section, consisting of capacity building activities 
including: (i) the review and the formulation of institutional changes; (ii) advice for 
implementing its policy agenda; (iii) the carrying out of an assessment and the issuance of 
recommendations on options to accelerate the provision of rural communications connectivity, in 
particular, approaches to deliver new modes of service delivery and government programs to the 
rural population; (iv) advice on, and implementation of, further liberalization of the sector; (v) 
the conclusion of technical cooperation arrangements with relevant policy agencies in other 
countries, information sharing and formal and informal contacts and advice; (vi) the attendance 
of professional training courses on specialized policy issues; and (vii) organization of seminars 
and workshops in the Borrower’s country to address key policy issues. 
2.
Strengthening of MOIC’s Frequency Management Division, consisting of:
(a)
Capacity building aimed at strengthening the said Division in the discharge of all 
its functions regarding radio spectrum management and the regulatory process in a way 
consistent with international best practice, comprising: (i) the preparation of a national frequency 
allocation plan and relevant radio regulations; (ii) the establishment of spectrum management 
and monitoring processes and procedures, and an appropriate spectrum pricing policy; (iii) 
advice and assistance in the implementation of institutional changes; (iv) services for the 
procurement process under the Project and the supervision of the implementation of the spectrum 
management and monitoring system awarded under the Project; (v) the conclusion of technical 
cooperation arrangements with foreign spectrum management agencies for purposes of 
information sharing and advice; (vi) the attendance by members of the FMD of professional 
training courses; and (vii) training in the operation and maintenance of the equipment for 
spectrum management and monitoring.
(b)
Installation and commissioning of a national frequency management and 
monitoring system.
3.
Support to the Project Coordination Unit to enable it to successfully implement its 
responsibilities in the implementation and overall coordination of the Project, including the 
provision of computer equipment and vehicles as required therefor.
Part B:
Strengthening of the NTA
Strengthening of NTA’s capacity for institutional building and for responding to 
regulatory issues in the sector, through the carrying out of studies, the provision of consultants’ 
services and training, and support to its award of a rural license to a private operator to provide 
services in rural areas.  In particular, this Part B includes the following activities:
1.
Strengthening of NTA’s regulatory capacity, encompassing a program of capacity 
building conducive to: (i) assisting NTA in the licensing process of Rural Telecommunications 
Services (RTS); (ii) facilitating the supervision of the implementation of the rural private 
licenses awarded under the Project; (iii) carrying out consultative studies on NTA’s rules of 
business, interconnection issues, numbering plan, monitoring carrier performance, tariffs, service 
quality, licensing regime, consumer protection and new/emerging regulatory issues in the sector; 
(iv) supporting the supervision and certification of the rural telecommunications service 
provider; (v) carrying out technical cooperation arrangements involving staff exchanges with 
relevant foreign regulatory agencies, information sharing, and seminars and courses; (vi) 
providing in-house training in the Borrower’s territory; and (vii) organizing seminars in the 
Page  17
country to address key regulatory issues. 
2.
Support to NTA in the implementation of the Borrower’s strategy for provision of 
telecommunications services in rural areas, by the financing of a one-time up-front minimum 
capital subsidy to a private operator which shall provide RTS in the Eastern Development Region 
of the Borrower’s territory.
3.
Assistance to NTA in the implementation of the Borrower’s policy for expanding access 
to information and telecommunication services, through the establishment, on a pilot basis, of 
public information access centers in district headquarters and Village Development Committees.
4.
Support to the PMU to enable it to successfully implement and carry out its functions 
under Part B of the Project.
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 1, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
under Part A of the Project
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (i) Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (ii) the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  18
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least (1) one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, at least thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission 
of bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;
(iii)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified period agreed with the 
Association;
(iv)
bids shall be opened in public in one (1) place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, a 
foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(vii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
bidders or any other bidders;
(ix)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
Page  19
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(x)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
(xi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the 
Association;
(xii)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(xiii)
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific contract under which it 
was furnished;
(xiv)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to 
determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next lowest 
evaluated and qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
(xv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than 
eight weeks, and (B) for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period;
(xvi)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost; and
(xvii)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan under Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement 
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods awarded in accordance to the provisions of 
Page  20
Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) goods awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Part C of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of: (i) the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (ii) the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services for strengthening of the PCU under Part A.3 of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(i) Training; and (ii) services for strengthening of the MOIC’s Planning Section and 
FMD under Parts A.1 (i), (v), (vi) and (vii) and A.2 (a) (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
Page  21
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) training; and (ii) each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent 
of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  Notwithstanding 
this provision, prior review by the Association shall still apply to: (i) the terms of reference for 
such contracts; (ii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; 
(iii) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms subject to the prior review 
provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Part D and raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above; (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms subject to the 
prior review provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of this Part D and raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Overall Project Coordination and Management: the PCU
Page  22
The PCU shall be vested with the main responsibility for the overall Project coordination 
and management, including coordination of those activities falling under Part B of the Project 
and to be carried out by NTA.  To this end, the Borrower shall maintain the PCU within the 
MOIC throughout Project implementation under terms of reference and with human and financial 
resources adequate to enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the Project in a suitable and 
prompt manner.  The PCU shall be led by a senior official of the MOIC acting as Project 
Coordinator and shall include in its composition as core staff senior officials from NTA, the 
Planning Section and the FMD, a senior financial officer and a procurement specialist.  The said 
financial officer and procurement specialist shall be appointed by the PCU to perform analogous 
functions and responsibilities within the PMU, the Borrower making such staff available to the 
PMU with prompt and adequate frequency.  The PCU shall be specifically responsible for overall 
reporting on Project implementation progress and the preparation of consolidated Project 
accounts and, when ready, of Project Management Reports, both for consolidation and 
submission to the Association not later than April 30, August 31 and December 31 in each Fiscal 
Year. 
2.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall cause the MOIC:
(a)
to maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the MOIC Performance Indicators, the carrying out of 
Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report, the continued validity of the Project design assumptions in light of the 
implementation experience and the evolving environment, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association and NTA, by November 15, 2004, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
