                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001311



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-35810)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.50 MILLION
                      (US$ 22.56 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                     NEPAL

                                     FOR A

             TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM PROJECT



                                February 14, 2010




Policy Unit, Global Information and Communication Technologies Department
South Asia Regional Office
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective: October 01, 2009)

               Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee (NPR)
                        1.00 = US$ 0.01334
                      US$ 1.00 = NPRs 77.28

                           FISCAL YEAR
                          July 15 ­ July 14

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
 DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
       DO    Development Objectives
     EDR     Enhanced Data Rate
     FMD     Frequency Management Division
       FM    Financial Management
     GON     Government of Nepal
     GDP     Gross Domestic Product
     GSM     Global System for Mobile Communications
    IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
      ICR    Implementation Completion Report
      ICT    Information and Communications Technologies
      IDA    International Development Association
       ISR   Implementation Status Report
      ISN    Interim Strategy Note
      ITU    International Telecommunication Union
      KPI    Key Performance Indicators
    MOIC     Ministry of Information & Communications
    M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NARSMMS      National Automated Radio Spectrum Management and Monitoring
             System
    NDCL     Nepal Doorsanchar Company Limited
     NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
      NTA    Nepal Telecommunications Authority
      NTC    Nepal Telecom
      OED    Operations Evaluation Department
    OPGW     Optical Fiber Ground Wire
      PAD    Project Appraisal Document
      PCO    Public Call Office
      PCU    Project Coordination Unit
      PDO    Project Development Objectives
     PMU     Project Management Unit
       PPF   Project Preparation Facility
     PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      PSR    Project Status Report (replaced by ISR)
     QAG     Quality Assurance Group
 QEA    Quality at Entry Assessment
 QSA    Quality of Supervision Assessment
RTDF    Rural Telecommunications Development Fund
 RTS    Rural Telecommunications Service
 SDR    Special Drawing Rights
  SIL   Specific Investment Loan
TSRP    Telecommunications Sector Reform Project
 USD    United States Dollar
 VDC    Village Development Committee
VSAT    Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBG     World Bank Group
 WLL    Wireless Local Loop
 XDR    International Monetary Fund Special Drawing Rights

               Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
             Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark, SACNP
              Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier, CITPO
         Project Team Leader: Tenzin D. Norbhu, CITPO
            ICR Team Leader: Tenzin D. Norbhu, CITPO
A. Basic Information
                                                                          NP:
Country:                Nepal                   Project Name:             Telecommunications
                                                                          Sector Reform Project
Project ID:             P050671                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-35810
ICR Date:               02/27/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NEPAL
Original Total
                        XDR 17.5M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 12.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 12.3M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Nepal Telecommunications Authority
 Ministry of Information and Communication
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/17/1997     Effectiveness:          05/01/2002           05/01/2002
Appraisal:            04/12/2001     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/11/2001     Mid-term Review:        07/15/2005           09/21/2005
                                     Closing:                09/01/2007           08/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     45                  25
Telecommunications                                                    55                  75


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                14                  10
Other financial and private sector development                        29                  15
Regulation and competition policy                                     29                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     28                  55

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Susan G. Goldmark                    Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:            Philippe Dongier                     Pierre A. Guislain
Project Team Leader:       Tenzin Dolma Norbhu                  Ritin Singh
ICR Team Leader:           Tenzin Dolma Norbhu
ICR Primary Author:        Siou Chew Kuek


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Strengthen the policy and regulatory environment in the telecommunications sector to
facilitate competition and private sector participation, and increase rural access to
services by facilitating private investments and operations.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objective was not revised.


                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Telephone (fixed and mobile) penetration
Value
quantitative or   1.13%                    3%                 12%             22%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   09/30/2001                 09/01/2007          09/01/2007      08/31/2009
Comments        Teledensity increased significantly over the project period, largely led by mobile
(incl. %        telephony growth. This growth resulted from the introduction of competition in
achievement)    the sector.
Indicator 2 :   Increased competition in all market segments
                                           Private operators
                                                                               Competition has
                                           to provide services
                                                                               been introduced in
                                           from 2004
                                                                               all segments of the
Value                                      onwards. Open all
                                                                               market. Nepal now
quantitative or WLL operator licensed. segments of the
                                                                               has 5 private
Qualitative)                               telecommunication
                                                                               operators and 1
                                           s market including
                                                                               government owned
                                           rural operations to
                                                                               operator.
                                           competition.
Date achieved 09/30/2000                   09/15/2005                          08/31/2009
Comments
                All segments of the market have been liberalized. Prices especially for internet
(incl. %
                access and international long distance services have reduced significantly.
achievement)
                Private RTS operator to provide services in 534 VDCs in the Eastern
Indicator 3 :
                Development Region by end 2004
                                                                               Services are
                                                                               provided in over
                                                                               2000 Public Call
                                           1068 PCOs in
                                                                               Offices in over 600
                                           unserved areas of
Value                                                                          VDCs. STM
                                           Eastern
quantitative or RTS operator not licensed                                      Telecom Sanchar
                                           Development
Qualitative)                                                                   now has a rural
                                           Region by mid
                                                                               nationwide license.
                                           2006.
                                                                               A new operator,
                                                                               Smart telecom has
                                                                               also been
Date achieved 09/30/2001                   06/30/2006                          08/31/2009
Comments        The Rural Telecommunications Service Operator is providing services in over
(incl. %        2000 Public Call Offices and to over 2000 private subscribers. All target VDCs
achievement) have been covered.
Indicator 4 : Radio frequency assignments improved
Value           Insufficient radio         Frequency                           National Frequency
quantitative or frequency allocation and assigned within 15                    Allocation Plan


                                                iii
Qualitative)    assignment                days of request,                   approved by the
                                          for 90% of all                     Government in
                                          applications.                      2004.Currently
                                                                             unable to measure
                                                                             assignment speed.
Date achieved 09/30/2001                   06/21/2006                        08/31/2009
Comments
                National Frequency Allocation Plan approved by the Government in
(incl. %
                2004.Currently unable to measure assignment speed.
achievement)
                Pilot public information and communications technologies (ICT) access centers
Indicator 5 :
                operational.
                                                               13 telecentres
                                                               operational;
                                                               computers
                                           Establish public introduced in
                Insufficient public
Value                                      ICT access centers 100 schools; 65 community ICT
                information and
quantitative or                            at the district and and at least   access centers have
                communications access
Qualitative)                               VDC levels by end two national been established
                centers.
                                           2005                Internet
                                                               Exchange
                                                               points
                                                               established
Date achieved 09/30/2001                   12/31/2005          03/31/2007     08/31/2009
Comments        A larger number of community access centers than originally planned were
(incl. %        established. The computers in school program and national internet exchanges
achievement) were not implemented.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                           Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                           documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :   NTA to announce interconnection regime
                                                                             Following a public
                                                                             consultations
                                                                             process, revised
                                                                             interconnection
                                          Effective
Value                                                                        rules were
                Interconnection regime    interconnection
(quantitative                                                                established and
                inadequate                regime
or Qualitative)                                                              termination rates
                                          operational.
                                                                             reduced from
                                                                             Nepalese Rupees
                                                                             1.54 to 0.50 per
                                                                             minute.
Date achieved 09/30/2001                  05/30/2003                         05/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                               iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    06/21/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.50
  2    06/27/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.50
  3    12/18/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.50
  4    03/14/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.51
  5    05/23/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.51
  6    10/24/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.97
  7    11/19/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.97
  8    03/10/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.97
  9    07/30/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.89
 10    11/23/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.62
 11    05/25/2005   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            10.67
                         Moderately
 12    10/05/2005                                     Unsatisfactory                 10.88
                       Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
 13    06/20/2006                                     Unsatisfactory                 13.51
                       Unsatisfactory
 14    11/03/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            14.70
 15    05/03/2007   Moderately Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                  14.85
 16    11/27/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            15.59
 17    03/31/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            15.59
 18    06/30/2008   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   17.55
 19    11/06/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   18.59
                                                       Moderately
 20    06/30/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                          18.59
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 21    08/31/2009   Moderately Satisfactory                                          18.59
                                                     Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
                                      NEPAL
                       Telecommunications Sector Reform Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (unedited) ...................................................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................... 0
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 1
  MAP
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

 1.1 Context at Appraisal

 The project addressed a key aspect of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
 (CAS) of 1998 on broad based economic growth in Nepal by (i) facilitating competition
 and private sector participation in the telecommunications sector; (ii) increasing access to
 adequate and efficient telecommunications services; and (iii) strengthening the regulatory
 framework. The project was also consistent with the objectives of the World Bank
 Group's Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Sector Strategy (2001) that
 included broadening and deepening sector reform and increasing access to information
 infrastructure. Furthermore, the licensing of a private Rural Telecommunications Service
 (RTS) operator under the project was designed on the principles of output-based aid.

 At appraisal, the Government of Nepal ("government" or "Government") had already
 undertaken a number of important actions to reform the telecommunications sector and
 improve its performance, such as (i) Parliamentary approval of the Nepal
 Telecommunications Act in 1997; (ii) establishment of the sector regulator, Nepal
 Telecommunications Authority (NTA) in 1998; and (iii) adoption of a forward looking
 National Telecommunications Policy in 1999. Progress had also been made in policy
 implementation such as authorizing over 65 new operators to provide value-added
 services. In 2001, NTA invited bids through an open and transparent process, for a
 Wireless Local Loop (WLL) operator and a second mobile operator to provide services in
 Nepal. This set the stage for the introduction of private investments and competition in
 the telecommunications sector. The Government also intended to catalyze private
 investments in rural telecommunications by providing a onetime capital subsidy to a
 competitively licensed operator to provide services in rural areas that faced an access gap.
 However, fundamental sector issues remained:

  i.    Very low level of telecommunications service: Telephone density at approximately
        1.13 lines per 100 inhabitants, compared to a world average of 10.5 lines; and
        lower than in Indonesia (2.9), Pakistan (2.21), and Sri Lanka (3.64).

ii.     Unequal urban-rural access: Approximately two-thirds of the telephones were in
        the Kathmandu valley, which accounted for less than 5 percent of the population.
        Only 45% of all Village Development Committees (VDC) had access to a shared
        public phone.

iii.    Lack of institutional capacity within the Ministry of Information and
        Communications (MOIC) to effectively carry out its policy function: With the
        adoption of the National Telecommunications Policy of 1999, it was imperative
        for MOIC's capacity to be strengthened to formulate and implement policy
        independent of the state owned operator, Nepal Telecommunications Company
        (NTC).




                                              1
iv.     Need to modernize NTA's regulatory practice: NTA needed to modernize its
        regulatory practices based on international best practices, but staff lacked
        expertise in areas such as interconnection, compliance, tariffs, monitoring, and
        type approvals.

v.      Limited spectrum management and monitoring capability: Spectrum management
        was a critical function in the newly competitive, wireless environment as it had
        the potential to become a serious bottleneck to sector growth.

The project was identified and prepared in the backdrop of a deteriorating political and
security situation in Nepal, with a longstanding domestic conflict between the
Government of the time and a Maoist insurgency. Following a competitive bidding
process, the Government had selected an international operator to provide rural
telecommunication services in the Eastern Development Region (EDR). However, given
the deteriorating political situation, the company decided not to invest in Nepal. While
the Bank was hesitant to move ahead with the project under such circumstances, the
Government was determined to implement the project and provide services in the
unserved rural areas of the EDR which was relatively less affected by the conflict. Given
this situation, the RTS license and capital subsidy was limited to the EDR. The
Government expected to replicate the output based aid approach in other regions,
deriving lessons of experience from the EDR.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Table 1.0 summarizes the PDO and key performance indicators in the PAD.

                     Table 1.0: PDO and Key Performance Indicators

                 PDO                                Key Performance Indicators
The objective of the project is to         i.   Telephone (fixed and mobile) penetration of 3
strengthen the policy and regulatory            per 100 inhabitants by the end of 2005.
environment in the                        ii.   Private operator commences mobile cellular
telecommunications sector to                    service by June 2002.
facilitate competition and private       iii.   Full competition in all market segments through
sector participation, and increase              private sector operators from 2004.
rural access to services by facilitating iv.    Private rural telecommunications service (RTS)
private investments and operations              operator to provide a minimum of two public
                                                access lines to the 534 unserved village
                                                development committees (VDCs) in the Eastern
                                                Development Region by the end of 2004.
                                          v.    Radio frequency assigned within 15 days of
                                                application by end of 2005, for 90 percent of
                                                applications.
                                          vi.   Pilot public Information and Communications
                                                Technologies (ICT) access center begins
                                                operations by October 2003.




                                                2
The project was expected to bring about positive changes in terms of increasing the
relevant institutions' capacity to reform and govern the sector, develop a fully
competitive and liberalized market, and enable the private sector to provide services to
the rural areas. The expected benefits were increased access to various
telecommunication services in the country, improved sector governance, and access to
basic telecommunications services in the rural areas.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

While the PDO was not revised, at midterm review, the quantitative targets of some of
the key indicators were revised since: (i) in some areas, such as teledensity, targets had
already been exceeded; and (ii) in others, such as the RTS operations, political events of
2004 led to a delay in the roll out of services in rural areas.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD did not categorize the primary or secondary beneficiaries of the project. The
PDO was sufficiently general to cover all the groups described but this might be expected
in a sector-wide project. The groups were inferred to be categorized as follows:

Primary Target Groups

Users of telecommunications services in general: The project would benefit all of Nepal's
telecommunications users by increasing the availability and quality of
telecommunications services nationwide. The capacity building components were
expected to bring improvements in sector governance, competition, and liberalization.
This would expand and improve telecommunications services and in turn, create
opportunities to enhance the lives of the people and contribute to economic development
through the timely delivery of information.

3.22 million low income, rural and other disadvantaged populations in 534 VDCs in the
Eastern Development Region: The RTS activity of the rural access component would
provide a minimum of two public access lines in the 534 unserved VDCs of the Eastern
Development Region, which would offer communications and information services to
these populations, often for the first time in their lives. This would enable rural
populations to have equal and easier access to market and other information, and enable
the delivery of social services to rural areas.

Marginalized rural and peri-urban populations: The establishment of public ICT access
centers under the rural access component would provide these populations with: (a)
access to affordable information and related services; (b) an enabling environment to
create local information content; and (c) improved information exchange, dissemination,
and opportunities in sectors such as health, education, and agriculture.

The government: The capacity building and spectrum management component would
increase MOIC's ability to set policies and assign frequencies based on the


                                             3
recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). MOIC would
also benefit from the availability of frequencies for allocation, and be able to perform its
role more effectively by reducing radio interference problems. Thorough improved
licensing and monitoring of the frequency spectrum, HMG would be able to collect
license fees and royalties through the efficient use of this scarce national resource.

Private telecommunications/ICT Businesses: The capacity building and spectrum
management component would provide private sector owned telecommunication and ICT
businesses with an enabling framework for doing business. For example, all licensed
operators were able to get international long distance license fees upon payment of
requisite fees.

Secondary Target Groups

Local businesses: The various components would contribute to more affordable and
higher quality telecommunications services, and businesses that increasingly depend on
telecommunications services to be competitive will benefit from lower costs and
increased variety of value-added services. Enterprise development would also increase as
a result of a wider array of telecommunications services being offered, and the
investment opportunities in new telecommunications/information-related businesses. In
addition, the private RTS subcomponent would create opportunities for rural
entrepreneurs to provide ICT services through franchises and other models.

Private investors: Improved sector governance resulting from the capacity building and
spectrum management subcomponents would enable private investors to benefit from a
more attractive telecommunication sector environment in Nepal. Hence private and
foreign direct investment in Nepal would increase.

1.5 Original Components

This project comprised two main components.

Component 1 would strengthen MOIC's policy and spectrum management functions by
supporting (a) the Planning Section to effectively carry out its policy function; (b) the
Frequency Management Division (FMD) to efficiently manage and monitor the radio
spectrum; and (c) the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in carrying out its project
function.

Component 2 would strengthen NTA's regulatory capacity, develop sector regulations,
and increase rural access by: (a) providing technical assistance to establish key
telecommunications regulations and build regulatory capacity within NTA; (b) support
provision of rural telecommunications services in the Eastern Development Region by
financing a onetime capital subsidy to a private operator on an output based aid approach;
(c) supporting the establishment of public ICT access centers in rural and peri-urban
areas; and (d) support for the Project Management Unit (PMU) to carry out its function.

The estimated project cost from the PAD is reproduced below:


                                              4
1.6 Revised Components

There were no major revisions to the components. However, overseas training and study
tours did not take place due to a change in Government policy to not permit use of loans
and credits for project financed training outside Nepal.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in project design during implementation, aside from
the above-mentioned dropping of overseas training. SDR4.4 was cancelled during
implementation to support an emergency food security operation; the cancellation was
made possible by: (i) savings from exchange rate gains; (ii) cancellation of funds
allocated for external training and study tours; (iii) cancellation of funds for NTA
operating costs; and (iv) savings arising from a successful second round of RTS licensing
where the operator did not seek any capital subsidy. Over the project period, NTA was
also able to use its own funds to finance consultancy support. NTA also used its own
funds to finance the scaled up Public ICT access component of the project as a budgetary
(fiscal year 2010) provision for this sub-component was not reflected in the
Government's budget.

The project closing date was extended twice, to September 01, 2008, and subsequently to
August 31, 2009. The extensions to closing date were requested by the government and
approved by Bank management. The reasons for extension were to complete: (i) the
procurement and installation of the National Automated Radio Spectrum Management
and Monitoring System (NARSMMS); (ii) the capacity building of MOIC and FMD
staff; and (iii) the procurement and installation of goods, and training of community
managers for the public ICT access component. SDR 0.7 million was undisbursed and
cancelled after closing.


                                            5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis, lessons incorporated, and rationale for Bank's intervention:

The project was well aligned with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (1998)
and the Government of Nepal's telecommunications sector policy and strategy to
leverage telecommunications as a "key factor for economic development, social
inclusion, and enhancing the welfare of the population". It also took into account the
government's commitment to reforms and concrete actions in the sector, such as
parliamentary approval of the Nepal Telecommunications Act in 1997, establishment of
NTA as an independent regulator in 1998 and adoption of a new National
Telecommunications Policy in 1999.

Key lessons were drawn from similar Bank and donor financed projects in the sector, and
the Operations Evaluation Department's (OED's) study, "World Bank Lending for
Telecommunications (1994)" and the OED/Operations Evaluation Group study,
"Information Infrastructure: The World Bank Group's Experience (2001). Key lessons
identified in the PAD and incorporated in the project design included: (i) the need to
promote a competitive telecommunications environment; (ii) the need to support the
establishment of a clear and predictable regulatory framework in the sector in order to
attract private investments. Given technological and market developments, the regulatory
framework also needs to evolve; and (iii) telecommunications investments in rural areas
can yield on average, adequate and even high economic and financial rates of return.
However, servicing the remote areas represents higher costs per line, and greater risk, and
therefore may require a subsidy. Subsidies should be awarded competitively, using a
least cost approach with a onetime capital subsidy, rather than for recurrent costs.

The rationale for Bank's intervention appears fully justified due to the Bank's
considerable international experience in telecommunications sector reforms and spectrum
modernization, for which the government then also noted the Bank's value-add in this
sector. The Bank's involvement in the government's market-based capital subsidy
approach to rural access also resulted in a highly successful outcome.

Project design

The overall project design was straightforward and uncomplicated. Strengths included a
simple and clear component structure, standardized implementation arrangements, and
upfront preparation for the rural access component of the project.

The objectives were also described with sufficient clarity. They were also realistic and
important for the country because they were fully aligned with and supported the
government's ambitious aim for reforms. Hence there was borrower buy-in for the
project throughout the design phase, as the objectives were part and parcel of the


                                             6
Government's stated mandate. In addition, the project also supported the Bank's goals
reflected in the CAS, ISNs, and telecommunications sector goals as reflected in the
World Bank Group's ICT Sector Strategy dated August 6, 2001. The objectives remained
unchanged during implementation as the sector priorities of the government remained the
same, despite the changing political and security landscape.

The two main components were also adequately designed to support the project's
objectives as they were relevant, multi-dimensional, and holistic in its approach. The
project was also well organized in terms of structure. The borrower's project
implementing agencies were limited to the main players in the sector, MOIC as policy
maker and NTA as regulator. Project teams were set up in each agency, with clear roles
and responsibilities. The multiple activities under the two main components were well
aligned with each agency's mandate and capabilities at the time of project appraisal.

The one area where experience during implementation has departed from expectations at
appraisal, largely for reasons exogenous to the project, concerned frequent changes
within Government and project implementation agencies. Further, as funds allocated for
capacity building of staff resources were cancelled, new staff in the agencies could not be
trained rapidly to address issues in a sector where technology and market developments
lead policy and regulatory action.

Government's Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement, and Participatory Processes

At project preparation and early in the implementation process, the government was
highly committed to the sector. It recognized the importance of telecommunications for
the country's wider socio-economic development agenda. Despite a highly challenging
political and security environment, the Government announced a revised
Telecommunications Policy and National Frequency Allocation Plan in 2004. The
Government demonstrated serious commitment to ensuring success of the rural
telecommunications program. It demonstrated considerable flexibility during
implementation of the RTS license, allowing for a successful outcome of the rural access
program.

Assessment of risks and mitigation measures

The assessment of risks at the time of appraisal was satisfactory. It considered critical
risks and mitigation measures for every component, and correctly identified security as a
major risk for rollout of services in the Eastern Development Region. However it could
have provided a multi-faceted mitigation approach for those risks rated "significant", and
considered sustainability risks for every component, including the risk associated with
ensuring continued use of the spectrum monitoring equipment in FMD.

2.2 Implementation

The project became effective in May 2002 and was implemented during a period of
significant political transitions, uncertainty and a deteriorating security situation. Early in
the implementation cycle, key government positions including that of MOIC Secretary,


                                              7
NTA Chairperson and Project Coordinator were not filled for three months after project
effectiveness. This led to a delayed launch of project activities.

From October 2002 ­ 2004, three caretaker governments were changed. It was during
this period that the RTS operator was licensed and commenced network installation and
operations. The telecommunications policy was revised in 2004 and amendments to the
telecommunications legislation were submitted for Parliamentary approval. Several
technical assistance activities were also implemented in MOIC, FMD and NTA. In order
to mitigate identified risks, all major policy and proposed changes to legislation were
made through significant stakeholder involvement and participation during project
implementation. The Telecommunications Policy and National Frequency Allocation
Plan of 2004 were finalized following a detailed consultation process. NTA also
instituted a public consultation process for when it amends existing and develops new
regulatory frameworks.

In February 2005, direct royal rule was imposed and the operations of licensed
telecommunication operators were severely curtailed. The RTS operator was unable to
continue expanding its network and declared Force Majeure. The changing political
landscape resulted in substantial delays in project implementation due to delayed decision
making on important sectoral issues.

The procurement of the spectrum management and monitoring equipment faced
significant delays as there was a lack of agreement within MOIC on technical
specifications. At the project's mid-term review in September 2005, the Government
agreed to restructure project management arrangements for this subcomponent.
However, continued political uncertainly resulted in delayed decision making. Following
a sustained people's movement in April 2006, a unity government was formed, and an
interim constitution was written. A new project director was appointed in August 2006
and the project closing date was extended by to end February 2009. With a new
government in place, the procurement process was launched in September 2006 and a
contract signed a year later. The Government hired consultants to help build capacity of
MOIC and FMD staff in Nepal. Senior officials in MOIC and NTA were changed in
2008 leading to delays in the implementation of the capacity building and public ICT
access subcomponents. There was a change of Government, leading to further senior
official changes in MOIC. In February 2009, the project closing date was extended by
an additional six months to end August 2009 to allow for the completion of capacity
building consultancy and roll out of public ICT access centers.

Implementation at sub-component level: In terms of the various activities implemented
under the project, the detailed achievements for each subcomponent are discussed below
and more details provided in Annex 2:

PDO1: Strengthen the Policy Environment

i.     Strengthening key policies: The project provided advisory services for the
development of a new Telecommunications Policy and a National Frequency Allocation



                                            8
Plan. These policy instruments were developed and approved in 2004. However,
legislative amendments to the Nepal Telecommunications Act, Radio Act and
Regulations which have been developed are yet to be approved by Parliament.

ii.     Spectrum management and monitoring system: The project installed a fully-
operational, state-of-the-art spectrum management and monitoring system. This was
achieved in spite of severe delays in equipment procurement due to the country's political
situation and change of project staff. FMD, the agency responsible for operating and
maintaining the system, suffers from a severe staff shortage. Sustainability of the system
also remains an issue but is expected to become less of a challenge give the recent
decision for joint management and monitoring by both MOIC and NTA.

iii.    Strengthening the MOIC's Planning Section: The implementation of this
subcomponent was seriously hampered midway into the project, when Government
policy on use of donor funds for external training and study tours changed.
Consequently, the capacity to set policy remains weak as capacity building activities
were not fully carried out.

PDO2: Strengthen the Regulatory Environment

i.       Strengthening NTA's regulatory capacity: The sub-component has enabled NTA
to: (i) implement good accounting and financial management practices; (ii) implement
key rules of business as proposed by consultants; (iii) and establish a public consultation
process, which is being implemented as at project closing date. However, the project was
not able to deliver the capacity building sub-component for NTA staff, largely due to the
same issue of change in government aid policy.

ii.     Strengthening key regulations: Adequate interconnection is a key enabler of
sector growth. The sub-component supported the development of revised interconnection
guidelines, which were approved by NTA in 2008 and implemented in May 2009.
Support was also provided to review and revise the licensing regime for purposes of
simplification. However, pending approval of amendments to the Telecommunications
Act, the licensing regime cannot be revised.

PDO3: Increase rural access to services by facilitating private investments and operations

i.      Private RTS Operator Licensing: The RTS operator (STM Telecom Sanchar
Private Limited) fully met its target to provide telecommunications access in at least two
public call offices (PCOs) in 534 VDCs of the EDR. STM also expanded its services to
other VDCs under a nationwide rural license and provides services in over 2000 PCOs
and services an additional 2000 private subscribers in remote rural areas. This success
encouraged the government to subsequently license two other operators (Smart Telecom
and Nepal Satellite Telecom Pvt. Ltd) to provide services to VDCs in the other regions.
This successful experience has demonstrated that there is sufficient rural demand to make
such services financially viable for private investors. Hence the government did not have
to provide capital subsidy to these additional operators.



                                             9
ii.     Public ICT access centers: At the project's mid-term review, the targets for this
subcomponent were revised to include, the establishment of 13 telecentres, introduction
of in 100 rural schools; and establishment of at least two national Internet Exchange
points by March 2007. In 2006 8 rural telecenters and 3 cybercafés from the pilot phase
were fully operational. NTA scaled up the activity to establish telecenters in an
additional 58 rural locations. In order to ensure sustainability of the program, it partnered
with various organizations who are successfully involved in providing similar services in
Nepal. Community managers were also trained to operate these centers. The computers
in schools program was not implemented as it was not possible to finalize
implementation arrangements with schools. As industry had already established a
national internet exchange in Kathmandu, the plan to establish additional exchanges was
dropped.

Factors affecting implementation: In analyzing implementation experience, there are a
number of factors which had a significant impact on the achievement of results:

Government vision and commitment to the sector: substantial impact. Early in the
project implementation period, this was a fundamentally important factor as the
government's positive vision and commitment to the sector served to drive project
implementation forward in a highly challenging environment.

Deterioration of political and security environment: substantial impact. This was the key
challenge faced and resulted in significant delays in the implementation of the project.
For example, while a revised Telecommunications Policy was approved in 2004,
amendments to the Telecommunications Act and Radio Act have not yet been discussed
at the Parliament. In 2004, due to the political and security situation, the roll out of
services by the RTS operator was delayed to the extent that the operator had to declare
force majeure.

Capacity building policy change: substantial impact. Capacity building arrangements for
both MOIC and NTA were halted midway in 2003 because of the Government's policy
on the use of foreign aid for training. Funding for external training and study tour
activities were cancelled. Consultancy services for in-house capacity building at the
MOIC could not be completed within the project period, due to differing views within
Government on the utilization of project funds.

Change in administrative personnel: moderate impact. There were numerous changes of
the MOIC Secretary and NTA Chairman positions during the project period. Further the
positions of board members at NTA were vacant for long periods. These impacted the
implementation in terms of continuity, commitment and pace of progress.

Insufficient technical expertise at MOIC: moderate impact. The frequent turnover of
technical staff and inadequate technical capacity at FMD, the agency responsible for
spectrum management and monitoring, impacted spectrum management on a continued
basis. While the National Automated Radio Spectrum Management and Monitoring



                                             10
System has been installed with significant delays from the original conceived timeline,
the capacity of the government to effectively manage the spectrum (policy making,
administrative and monitoring functions) has not improved, largely due to non-
implementation of capacity building contract. The Government's recent decision for
NTA to support the MOIC with spectrum management and monitoring functions could
potentially lead to improvements in spectrum management as NTA has better technical
capacity than the MOIC and is able to hire professional staff from the market.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

Design

 The M&E plan was based on key performance indicators that were linked to
achievements of the various project outputs. The M&E framework focused relatively
more on expected outputs rather than outcomes.

NTA designed and operated a useful Management Information System (MIS) to monitor
sector progress and key outputs which are largely in line with the project. For the rural
access component, the RTS operator was required to meet outputs and quality of service
standards in accordance with its subsidy and service agreement. NTA hired a third party
technical verification team to monitor the deliverables of the RTS operator.

Implementation

Relevant data was collected by various means, and as applicable for each indicator. The
project relied on data from the NTA's MIS and from feedback provided by industry
stakeholders. The Bank team also provided feedback to NTA for improvement of the
MIS. The indicators were not used in the early half of the project implementation period
and were not reflected in the Project Supervision Reports from 2002 ­ 2004.
Subsequently they were used consistently and extensively in the ISRs from 2004 onwards
for monitoring, reporting, and proposing follow up actions to the government and Bank
management.

During mid-term review of the project, a number of outcome targets were revised, as
some of the targets had already been met, and others delayed. For example, (i)
teledensity targets were increased from those set at appraisal; (ii) the completion date for
the RTS operation and public ICT access pilots were delayed by 18 months.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance is rated satisfactory. No issues were reported regarding
compliance with Bank policy and procedural requirements. The rural access and
NARSMMS components had minimum environmental implications as there was no need
for supporting roads, significant civil works, or power-supply installations.

Financial Management is rated moderately satisfactory: The overall performance of
financial management is rated moderately satisfactory as the project has largely complied


                                             11
with all fiduciary requirements, in spite of some delays in the submission of annual
procurement plan, trimester reports and audits. A financial management information
system became operational at an early stage of implementation and the system appears to
work satisfactorily. There was some staff turnover at the PCU which affected financial
management. Project accounting and internal controls were adequate, and the team
provided the needed supervision in fiduciary matters

Disbursements: Of the original credit of SDR 17.5 million, SDR 4.4 million was
cancelled during implementation and an additional SDR 0.7 million was undisbursed and
cancelled after closing. A total of SDR12.2 million was fully disbursed.

Overall procurement is rated moderately satisfactory: Significant procurement delays
took place in the second half of project implementation, especially the procurement of the
NARSMMS and the scaling up of the public ICT access component. There was also a
single instance of misprocurement resulting in the cancellation of SDR 270,000.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Sector Level: It is expected that the Government of Nepal will face continued internal and
external pressure to reform the country's telecommunications sector. Sector
developments are happening at break-neck speeds as no other technology in history has
spread faster than the mobile phone, and it is now the most pervasive technology device
in the world. Nepal is not expected to be an exception in this landscape; and the
government will likely face political and consumer pressure to keep up with this global
trend. However, the current political uncertainty in Nepal is likely to hamper major
reform efforts. For example, the amendments to the Telecommunications Act and the
Radio Act and Regulations have yet to be approved.

The current governance arrangements in the sector are also not amenable to improved
sector performance. Three government agencies are involved in the sector - MOIC as
policy maker, NTA as regulator and the incumbent state owned Nepal Doorsanchar
Company Limited (NDCL) as operator. However, MOIC Secretary's Chairmanship of
NDCL has not allowed for clear separation of functions in the sector. This does not
provide a level playing field in the sector, inhibiting sector growth as NDCL does not
allow for fair competition especially in the areas of interconnection and access to
essential facilities such as backbone infrastructure. Additionally, NTA as sector regulator
needs to be more proactive, especially in addressing anti-competitive behavior by NDCL,
ensuring improvements in service quality and encouraging infrastructure sharing.

While sector performance has improved significantly, Nepal still lags its peers in the
region. For example, Nepal's teledensity is 26%, compared to 45% in Afghanistan, 38%
in Bangladesh, and 62% in Pakistan.

Project Level: The major sub-components of the project are expected to be sustainable.
The rural access sub-component has proven to be economically feasible for the RTS
operator to continue its operation far into the foreseeable future. The success of this sub-
component will also drive rural access in the 400 remaining VDCs that are still not


                                             12
connected. Based on this experience, the government has licensed a new rural operator
and basic telecommunications operator, Smart and Nepal Satellite respectively, who will
be able to provide connectivity to these remaining VDCs. An Advisory Council to the
Rural Telecommunications Development Fund (RTDF) fund committee has also been
established, and is expected to provide the leadership for utilizing the USD 12 million
that has been collected in the fund to improve access to rural citizens.

The spectrum management and monitoring system should also be sustainable. This is
because MOIC and NTA have agreed to jointly conduct the monitoring function, with
NTA assuming the operating costs. As NTA has financial and administrative autonomy it
will be able to hire qualified staff from the market and thus ensure that the systems are
properly utilized. NTA will also hire retired FMD staff that has been trained to utilize the
system.

Next Phase: Key priority actions for Government to address in the sector include:

   (i) Improving sector governance by clearly separating the policy and operational
            roles of Government. MOIC, the telecommunications policy maker plays a
            prominent role in the board of the state owned incumbent NDCL. Such a role
            could prevent MOIC from setting policies that promote overall sector
            development. NDCL sometimes does not adhere to its license conditions nor
            to directives issued by the regulator. This hinders effective competition in the
            sector, and more importantly, sector performance and growth.
   (ii) Approval of amendments to the telecommunications and radio law, in order to
            improve implementation of the telecommunications policy and further
            strengthening the regulatory environment.
   (iii)Utilize the collections in the Rural Telecommunications Development Fund.
            Significant resources have been collected in the RTDF. NTA needs to
            accelerate the utilization of this fund, while ensuring that programs to be
            supported are developed through a consultative process, and allocations from
            the fund are made in a transparent manner.
   (iv) Further strengthen the spectrum management function in Nepal. The Government
            may want to consider either: (a) establishing FMD as an autonomous
            government agency with greater operational, administrative and financial
            autonomy; or (b) transferring the spectrum management and monitoring
            function to NTA.
   (v) Government should approve and implement a broadband policy since access to
            such services provides the foundation for a modern economy.

Priority actions for the Bank would be to support follow up work to address key
bottlenecks in the sector. This could include: (i) technical assistance in the areas of
emerging sector issues such as convergence and quality of service; (ii) analytical work
for rationalization of the sector's taxation regime which could potentially spur the
expansion of networks and customer take up of telecom services in Nepal; and (iii)
support for developing a reliable domestic and international backbone network in Nepal.
Follow-on support in the sector would yield substantial economic and social benefits for



                                            13
the country; especially in the areas of next generation data networks and mobile
applications which have transformative impact for the poor.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This was a highly relevant project at the time of its design, and remains equally relevant
at the time of this ICR.

It remains aligned with the country's current priorities: The current Three Year Interim
Plan (FY08-10) aims to provide a conducive environment for the development of the ICT
sector as it recognizes that the country cannot exist in isolation from dramatic changes
occurring globally. Furthermore, the government is fully committed to inclusive
development in ICT (which is in line with the original rural access objectives of this
project), and the last version of the country's PRSP for 2002 ­ 20071 had identified the
telecommunications sector as a major area for private sector investment. The Three Year
Interim Plan (FY08-10) is the current plan for Nepal.

The project also remains in line with current global priorities: The telecommunications
sector has experienced tremendous technological development worldwide during the
project's duration. However, the project's objectives continue to be relevant as the
breakneck speeds of development in the sector still requires the same policy, regulatory,
and institutional framework put in place by this project in order for Nepal to manage
emerging and converging technologies; such as broadband, wireless data services and
mobile-based applications among others. Digital divide issues are still not addressed in
many countries, and this project has provided a successful rural access approach that
could be used in other developing countries.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has been moderately successful in achieving its overall development
objectives of strengthening the policy and regulatory environment, and enabling private
provision of telecommunication infrastructure and services in rural areas. The component
PDOs are assessed below with reference to Annex 2:

PDO1: Strengthen MOIC's Policy Making Function (US$ 5.94 million ­ 31% of total
expenditures)

This objective has been partially achieved as the policy environment has been
strengthened to a large, but not the full extent. A new Telecommunications Policy 2004
and the National Frequency Allocation Plan has been developed and approved; and
foundational spectrum management and monitoring system has been installed. In
addition, amendments had also been developed for the Telecommunications Act, and

1
 Nepal National Planning Commission. 2003. "The Tenth Plan (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper): 2002 ­
2007". Kathmandu, Nepal. http://siteresources.worldbank.org/NEPALEXTN/Resources/Nepal_PRSP.pdf


                                                 14
Radio Act and Regulations. However, these amendments have yet to be enacted, and the
capacity building sub-component has also not been completed.

The objective is of significant relative importance in this project - as it has wide
repercussions for society as it directly affects issues related to access to communications
services, digital divide, and inclusiveness. It is also important for the economy as it
provides a policy foundation for private sector participation and investments.

PDO2: Strengthen NTA's Capacity to Regulate the Sector (US$ 0.7 million ­ 3.5% of
total expenditures)

This objective has been partially achieved as key processes and regulations are in place
due to the project, and they have contributed considerably to the strengthening of the
regulatory environment.

An effective telecommunications regulator in Nepal is of significant importance for
regulating the sector, and to ensure a level playing field for all operators. This covers
various areas of regulation related mainly to sector liberalization, licensing,
interconnection issues, tariffs, numbering, monitoring carrier performance, convergence,
universal access and fostering fair competition.

PDO3: Increase rural access to services by facilitating private investments and operations
(US$ 12.31 million ­ 65.5% of total expenditures)

This objective has been achieved, with the RTS operator exceeding agreed targets by a
substantial margin. In addition, the public ICT access center sub-component has also
largely been completed.

This is the most important objective of the project because it relates directly to the
country and Bank's poverty reduction agenda. The achievement of the objectives would
enable rural communities and inhabitants to have access to communications and
information through public call centers and ICT access centers for the first time in their
lives. Numerous studies have also shown that access to such services enables the rural
poor to benefit financially though the potential for greater income earning ability and cost
savings. In addition, these services are perceived to provide large benefits in providing a
sense of security for acting in emergencies, and in maintaining social relationships2.

In addition, the approach for the RTS sub-component is innovative and has wide
repercussions for the country and Bank. It is innovative as it seeks to leverage the private
sector for delivery of rural services. The outcome of this sub-component is also highly
relevant for the expansion of rural access to other regions of Nepal and provides
invaluable lessons for Bank supported interventions in other countries.


2
  Harsha de Silva, Ayesha Zainudeen & Dimuthu Ratnadiwakara. 2008. "Perceived economic benefits of
telecom access at the Bottom of the Pyramid in emerging Asia". LIRNEAsia.
http://www.scribd.com/doc/3105489/LIRNEasia-ICApc-Benefits-at-BOP-v2-1


                                                 15
The table below lists the key benefits extracted from the PAD, for assessment of the
achievement based on project outcomes (in addition to assessment based on PDOs
above). Key indicators and data are provided where available.

Expected Outcomes         Indicators used        Baseline Value          Achievement at      Remarks
Benefits                  for this ICR           (2002)                  Completion or
                                                                         Target Values
The Nepalese people       Mobile penetration     1.13%                   22%                 Refer to
will have new             rates                                                              Section 3.5
opportunities to                                                                             for global
enhance their lives due                                                                      evidence on
to access to                                                                                 linkages
telecommunication                                                                            between
services, and economic                                                                       access to
development will be                                                                          services and
increased due to the                                                                         socio-
timely delivery of                                                                           economic
information                                                                                  benefits
Increased productivity    Number of rural        All users in Eastern    Services are
and income                users provided         Development regions     provided in over
opportunities in rural    access to              do not have access to   600 VDCs; for
areas, and improved       telecommunications     telecommunications      3.2 million rural
access to government      services, and          services                inhabitants
services                  number of VDCs
                          covered
Increased tax revenues    Total revenue from     $79 million             $92 million         Latest
from sector, and from     all                                            (2006)              available
economy at large          telecommunication                                                  figure from
                          services3                                                          ITU is from
                                                                                             2006
Higher levels of          Total investment in    $24 million             $25 million         Latest
private investments in    telecom4                                       (2003)              available
the sector                                                                                   figure is from
                                                                                             ITU is 2003
Improved quality and      Price of 3-min local   Not available           Not available       Data is not
range of services, and    call for mobile                                                    available
reduced prices            cellular (peak and                                                 from ITU on
                          off-peak)5                                                         these price
                                                                                             indicators,
                                                                                             and there is a
                                                                                             lack of
                                                                                             indicators for
                                                                                             quality and
                                                                                             range of
                                                                                             services

For the first two outcomes, the use of access indicators as proxies and global evidences
would suggest that the project has achieved its desired outcomes - in terms of creating
opportunities and economic development for general users of telecommunications

3
  From ITU database
4
  From ITU database
5
  From ITU database


                                                    16
services; and for increasing productivity, opportunities, and access to government
services by rural users.

The project has also achieved its desired outcome of increasing government revenues
from the sector (from $79 million in 2002 to $92 million in 2006), although it is expected
that the increase would be more significant if recent data were available.

Unfortunately there is also a lack of recent data on the total investment in the
telecommunications sector, but it is expected that there has been significantly higher
levels of investment in the sector, which could be partly attributed to the policy and
regulatory components of this project. There is also a lack of indicators for on quality,
range, and price of services from ITU; although it is expected that these have improved
significantly during the project period as well.

3.3 Efficiency

Based on an economic analysis (refer to Annex 3), the project is highly efficient as it
achieved a much higher rate of return on the RTS operator component than the
opportunity cost of capital. The analysis utilizes the same model and assumptions used
during project appraisal, but included actual and forecasted call minutes and revenue data
from the RTS operator, STM Telecom Sanchar Private Limited. The updated analysis
indicates that the economic rate of return (ERR) for this component is 21%, significantly
above the hurdle rate of 10% and confirms the economic worth of the project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating is based on relevance, PDO achievement and efficiency, and reflects the
Government's success in reforming the sector and extending telecommunication services
to previously unserved rural areas.

The project has met its major development objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project is likely to have significant poverty reduction impact in Nepal, due to
significantly increased access to telecommunications services by the primary target
groups. Global research has shown that information and communications technology
(ICT) provide the poor with potential means to escape their poverty (Kenny et al, 2001),
and this potential can take many shapes - including income generating opportunities that
were not previously possible, improved skills through access to distance education and
training program, better planning and provision of services by local government, and
access to market and price information. ICTs may also offer some of their greatest
benefits in rural areas where the majority of the Nepal's poorest people reside. For many
rural dwellers, information transfer currently requires geographical proximity.


                                              17
Information on market price, credit and financing opportunities, and access to new
technologies or government services is difficult to procure. For these people, access even
to the most basic ICT can make a significant difference. (Grace et al, 2001)6. In addition,
it has also been found that every 10 percent increase in mobile phone penetration is
associated with a 0.6 percent increase in a country's GDP7.

Therefore, it is likely that the project has contributed significantly to poverty reduction,
by significantly increasing access to ICT services across the primary target groups. For
general users of telecommunications, the poverty reduction impact could be attributed to
the significant increase in mobile penetration from1.13% to 22% over the project period.
For rural users of telecommunication, the project has provided 3.22 million rural
inhabitants in 534 VDCs with access to ICT services for the first time in their lives. In
addition, it has contributed indirectly to poverty reduction for other marginalized rural
populations, as the rural component's exceptional success has enabled the government to
issue two additional operator licenses to provide access to other rural populations.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The intended institutional change and strengthening has not been fully achieved as the
capacity building components were not completed in time. The Government's policy
change prevented the use of the credit for capacity building, and disallowed external
training and overseas study tours.

However, over the project period, capacity at NTA has been strengthened through
consultancy support. Consultants financed by the project to support NTA in various
regulatory areas have provided hands on training to NTA staff. Sustained policy dialogue
has also resulted in improvements in the remuneration of NTA staff, thus allowing the
agency to retain qualified professionals.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The licensing of the RTS operator was implemented with exceptional success and
delivered beyond expectations. It was a high risk component because a qualified RTS
operator had already pulled out of the project in the first round of licensing, citing
political and security risks. Based on the highly positive outcome of this component, the
government offered competitive capital subsidies to operators to provide services in
unserved rural areas. Private investors were sufficiently confident to commit to provide
services in rural areas, without a subsidy. Its success also serves as general evidence that
there could be sufficient demand for services in rural areas to make it economically
feasible for private sector entry.


6
  Citations for Kenny et al, 2001; and Grace et al., 2001, are quoted and paraphrased from Sean Kane.
2002. Telecom Reform and Poverty Alleviation in Kenya. LINK Centre, Graduate School of Public and
Development Management, University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
[http://www.sajic.org.za/index.php/SAJIC/article/viewFile/SAJIC-3-3/75]
7
  Leonard Waverman, Meloria Meschi and Melvyn Fuss. 2005. "The impact of telecoms on economic
growth in developing countries". Number 3. The Vodaphone Policy Paper Series.


                                                   18
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is rated moderate due to existence of some identified
sustainability risks:

(i)     The current sector governance structure is still not conducive to improved
        performance and establishment of a level playing field in a largely competitive
        sector;
(ii)    There is no enabling legislation to implement the revised policy of 2004 and a
        number of regulations are yet to be approved, thus leading to perceived regulatory
        risks; and
(iii)   There is inadequate capacity within MOIC to manage the radio spectrum, a vital
        national resource on which telecommunications sector development depends.

These sustainability risks are offset by the following considerations:

There is a low probability for major components such as the RTS and licensing of new
operators to be affected by changes in the country. This is because the RTS operator sub-
component has proven to be highly successful in spite of a risky political and security
context, and the government has in fact licensed additional operators to provide such
rural services based on the highly successful experience of this project. Changes that
might affect these services are also expected to be politically sensitive for the government
­ the rural beneficiaries and other stakeholders are not likely to accept the termination of
telecommunications services.

A fully functional spectrum management and monitoring system has also been installed
by the government, hence the risk for this sub-component relates more to sustainability of
continued usage. However this should be addressed once the function is jointly conducted
by MOIC and NTA, as NTA has the financial and administrative autonomy to overcome
the staff issues faced by MOIC. In addition, the National Frequency Allocation Plan had
already been approved by the government since 2004.

The public ICT access center sub-component is also completed and is being operated by
partner organizations with the experience of running similar programs in rural Nepal.
Furthermore, training has been provided to community telecenter managers. Therefore,
the operational and long term sustainability is assured.




                                            19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. IDA worked closely with the
Government of Nepal to prepare the project, making conscious efforts to consult with
stakeholders in the sector, and rural beneficiaries in the EDR. Project preparation also
took into account key lessons from similar projects and from OED reports.

The task team underestimated the political, bureaucratic and security risks as these posed
significant challenges to subsequent implementation. Strong and multiple mitigation
measures could have been provided if the risks had been identified.

Delays in the procurement of the NARSMMS turned out to be the main cause of
persistent delays in project implementation. The risk that NARMMS would not be
implemented in a timely and effective manner was identified at entry. While this risk
was correctly identified, the mitigating measures were not sufficient. For example,
consultants to support MOIC prepare the bidding documents should have been recruited
before project effectiveness. Further, administrative oversight of this component could
have been provided at the highest level of the MOIC.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank team had performed its supervision role satisfactorily in a highly challenging
and unpredictable environment. However, the task team could have been more proactive
in revising the project's monitoring and evaluation framework.

Focus on development impact: The team was able to focus on development impact as its
strategic directions were constantly guided by the telecommunications access agenda of
the project. Hence, it guided the government and the project's activities based on sector
proven approaches related to corporatization, liberalization, and creation of an enabling
environment.

Adequacy of supervision inputs and processes: The team adapted to the changing
implementation environment. For example, it refocused the project to building the
groundwork for subsequent launch of the rural license and capacity building when the
political and security environment was challenging, and managed to push key
implementation activities ahead for when the environment became more conducive.
When the RTS operator declared force majeure, the team worked closely with the
Government to find objective solutions.

The team was also proactive, and firm when necessary. After extensive delay in the
procurement of the spectrum management and monitoring system, the team also took
firm action by establishing a deadline for cancellation of the component, ensuring strict


                                            20
adherence to schedules, and utilized multiple channels of communication to move the
sub-component forward. In addition, it constantly highlighted impending sector issues of
relevance to the government; including the need to develop alternative backbone
networks, broadband policies and quality of service issues.

Following the change in foreign aid policy, wherein external training and study tours
could not be financed under the project, the task team consciously included a learning
element to every consultancy activity. Further, the team also supported the implementing
agencies in hiring consultants to provide much needed training for MOIC, FMD and
NTA staff in Kathmandu.

The team also effectively managed the cancellation of credit proceeds for reallocation to
the food emergency project.

Candor and quality of performance reporting: The team was candid in their performance
reporting. The key issue on approval of the amendments to the Telecommunications Act
was repeated in almost every progress report. The quality of performance reporting is
also sufficiently high, as supervision document were clear and concise, focused on
pertinent issues for government action, and management support was sought as necessary
to communicate key messages to the government.

Supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects: Supervision of fiduciary aspects was
thorough and proactive, hence there were no major issues throughout the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This rating reflects high relevance of the project and generally appropriate design and
sound project supervision. The Bank team flexibly responded to the needs of the sector
and country in a highly challenging environment. The overall Moderately Satisfactory
rating reflects, however, the fact that quality at entry could have been stronger in relation
to: (i) risk assessment and mitigation measures; (ii) the M&E framework which focused
relatively more on expected outputs rather than outcomes; and (iii) the fact that the total
capital subsidy to be awarded was not derived through a detailed study.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government's high-level vision and commitment to developing the
telecommunications sector was the most important factor for the project. In spite of the
changes in government and constitution, the vision and commitment to the agenda remain
largely unaffected, as its benefits and relevance to the country's development was shared
across the Government. Hence, the team was able to leverage on this high level support
to drive the deliverables, such as the rural access component.




                                             21
However, there was a lack of political will to take concrete action on broad sector and
project issues due to the unstable political environment at various points during
implementation, and considerable delays in decision making both at the policy and
project level. For example, draft amendments to the Telecommunications Act and Radio
Act and Regulations that were prepared in 2004 have not been approved by government.

Frequent administrative changes also had adverse impact on the project. The MOIC
Secretary and NTA Chairman positions changed frequently, and there were prolonged
period when positions were vacant. These led to varying levels of knowledge,
commitment and delayed decision making during implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency               Performance
1. MOIC                           Moderately Satisfactory
2. NTA                            Moderately Satisfactory

Both the agencies have been rated moderately satisfactory for their performance as they
had managed to deliver important project components, in spite of operating in a highly
uncertain and unpredictable environment from a political, security, and administrative
perspective.

The Project Director was changed frequently, and the transition between directors was
not managed very effectively. Fiduciary responsibilities were largely carried out in a
satisfactory manner. Both agencies maintained their financial management systems for
the project. In addition, reports for project management, auditing, procurement were
delivered as required; with minor delays and quality issues. However, the teams were
also affected by the political climate and changes at their management level, hence
deadlines were consistently not met and implementation was extremely slow at times.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower remained committed to sector development, and managed to deliver two of
the most important components despite a highly challenging implementation
environment. However, staff continuity especially in MOIC and adequate attentiveness to
implementation timelines and agreements was an issue. The rural access component in
particular, was highly successful and exceeded expectations.

6. Lessons Learned

The following are key lessons from the project:

·    Projects can be successfully implemented when there is a strong stakeholder
commitment to reform, and when there is strong political and administrative
commitment to monitor progress and make flexible changes as required. Clear


                                            22
leadership, willingness to implement reforms at a senior level, and a broad consensus on
priorities facilitated project implementation during much of the project period. This
lesson is noteworthy as the project was implemented against a backdrop of political
upheaval and physical insecurity.

·       The Bank could improve its risk mitigation approach by adopting a rigorous and
methodological approach for projects that operate in challenging political contexts.
Since the key factor impacting this project was political will and action, such an approach
would be highly useful for guiding operational processes in environments such as Nepal.
For example, senior governance specialists within the Bank could be utilized to provide
input and guidance during project preparation, especially those with deep regional and
country knowledge. In addition, project teams could utilize tools such as stakeholder
analysis to identify and assess individuals, groups, or institutions; and their impact on the
project. Political economy analysis could also be employed to examine processes,
incentives, relationships; and identify technocrat versus politician-driven activities that
affect the project. These tools could be utilized at various stages in the project, and as
necessary to increase operational understanding of issues and risks; and provide guidance
for workarounds and mitigation options.

·       Project activities identified as having "significant" risks could also have multiple
mitigation options. For example, the project identified security risk for rollout of rural
services as "significant", but provided one mitigation option (adjust the schedule).
However, this single option was not feasible due to earlier delays, and the teams had to
develop countermeasures (adjusting the target VDCs) only when the issue surfaced.
Identifying multiple mitigation options for high risk activities could have enabled a more
proactive approach, and increased effectiveness of risk mitigation.

·      One of the major sectoral lessons learnt is that the private sector could play a
major role in the telecommunications sector; even in challenging political and security
environment. This is evident in the highly successful rural access component of this
project, which succeeded beyond expectations in spite of internal and external
skepticism. With hindsight, the private sector brought services to all the targeted
beneficiaries in the VDCs when the government could not. Its success also brought
significant benefits on the side ­ the operator itself invested about USD 40 million,
competition was brought to the market, the regulator was forced to look at
interconnection issues, and the government gained confidence to offer additional rural
licenses without any capital subsidy.

·      Even in mountainous countries like Nepal, a competitive market environment
promotes enhanced service coverage, quality and leads to competitive tariffs and
services for consumers. The entry of new operators in Nepal, especially the second
mobile operator, led to the accelerated expansion of service and reduced tariffs even in
areas with challenging terrain.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



                                             23
The implementing agencies provided feedback, mainly clarifications and corrections on
facts and figures, on the draft report and these were included in the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders N/A




                                          24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 MOIC COMPONENT (I)
                                        0.76                0.90           118%
STRENGTHEN CAPACITY
 (II) STRENGTHEN
SPECTRUM MONITORING
                                        5.41                4.90           90.5%
AND MANAGEMENT
AUTHORITY (NTA)
 (III) SUPPORT TO THE PCU               1.15                0.14            12%
 NTA COMPONENT (I)
                                        2.21                0.65            30%
STRENGTHEN CAPACITY
 (II) RURAL ACCESS SUBSIDY              9.09               11.865          130%
 (III) PUBLIC ICT ACCESS
                                        3.21                0.44            14%
CENTERS
 (IV) SUPPORT TO THE PMU                0.50                0.00            0%

           Total Baseline Cost         22.33               18.90
Physical Contingencies
                                        1.11                0.00
Price Contingencies                     1.11
                                                            0.00
             Total Project Costs        0.00               18.90
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00
     Total Financing Required          24.55               18.90




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         1.99         0.41         20.6%
International Development
                                                 22.56       18.49        83.2%
Association (IDA)




                                          25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Component/            Project Activities       Target Output/         Achievement/             Outcome/ Impact
Subcomponent/                                                          Actual Output
  Objective
MOIC Component

Strengthen MOIC's      Review and revision of   MOIC to have a        Telecommunications       All sectors of the
policy making          telecommunications       fully staffed and     Policy revised in        market have been
functions              policy                   working planning      2004. Staff received     liberalized leading to
                                                cell                  on the job training      reduced tariffs for local,
                       Review and                                     during policy            long distance and
                       assessment of            30 man months of      development.             international long
                       increasing ICT access    training for MOIC                              distance calls.
                       in peri-urban areas of   staff by              Strategy for public
                       Nepal                    2004                  ICT public access
                                                                      programs developed       Growth in access ­
                       Advisory support for                           in 2005                  from 1.2% at project
                       commercialization of                                                    appraisal to 26.05% at
                       Nepal                                          NT able to use output    closing.
                       Telecommunications                             of advisory services
                       Company                                        for its
                                                                      commercialization,
                                                                      especially in areas of
                                                                      accounting and
                                                                      marketing in 2005


Strengthen radio                                Publish National      National Frequency
spectrum               Review and revision of   Frequency             Allocation Plan
management             national frequency       Allocation Plan by    published in 2004
function               allocation plan and      end of 2002
                       spectrum pricing                               National Radio
                       policy                   Radio frequency       Spectrum database
                                                assignments           updated in 2009 and
                       Support for staff        completed within      all bills to users
                       development in FMD       15 days of            being issued from
                       for improving            applications          the system.
                       spectrum management      starting January 1,
                       and monitoring           2005.                 FMD staff received
                       function                                       some training from
                                                30 man months of      equipment
                       Support to supervise     training for FMD      manufacturer/
                       the procurement of the   staff by              supplier in 2008 and
                       NARSMMS                  2004                  2009.

                       Installation and
                       commissioning of
                       NARSMMS
NTA Component


Strengthen NTA's       Technical, specialized   30 man months of      On the job training      Regulator strengthened.
capacity to regulate   regulatory advice to     training for NTA      provided by
the sector.            NTA on :                 staff by 2004         consultants while        All major decisions are
                                                                      conducting their         arrived at following a
                        ·    Licensing          Announcement of       assignments in           public consultation
                        ·    Interconnection    inter-connection      Nepal.                   process.



                                                        26
 Component/         Project Activities        Target Output/          Achievement/            Outcome/ Impact
Subcomponent/                                                         Actual Output
  Objective
                     ·    Tariffs             regime by June
                     ·    Instituting a       2002.                  Interconnection          NTA has the capacity to
                          public                                     Guidelines amended       monitor sector
                          consultation        Define the rules of    in 2008                  development and
                          process             procedures in all                               progress.
                                              areas that NTA         Proposed licensing
                                              regulates by June      regulations could not
                                              2002                   be implemented as        Nepal has 6 licensed
                                              Adopt a transparent    Telecommunications       telecommunications
                                              consultative           law was not amended      service providers (basic,
                                              process in its         NTA follows a            WLL, cellular and rural
                                              deliberation by        public consultation      operators)
                                              June 2002.             process in all its
                                                                     deliberations.



                                                                     STM Telecom
Rural access        Competitively bid out     License private        Sanchar Private          Smart Telecom, the
                    a onetime capital         operator to provide    Limited licensed in      second rural operator
                    subsidy to operator to    rural service in the   November 2003 and        did not require a
                    provide services in the   Eastern                provided services        subsidy to provide
                    rural areas of the EDR    Development            through 1068 PCOs        services.
                                              Region by end June     in the EDR by 2006 ;
                                              2001 and provide       as of project end, it
                                              services in 1068       was providing rural
                                              locations in 534       services nationwide
                    Consultant services for   VDCs                   in over 2000 public
                    monitoring, evaluating                           shared locations in
                    and certifying the                               over 700 VDCs.
                    delivery of rural                                Also provides private
                    services                                         service to over 2000
                                                                     users.


                                                                     At the pilot phase, 8
Public ICT Access   Pilot public ICT access   Establish pilot        community                ICT access (Internet, IT
                    centers in peri-urban     public access          telecenters and 3        training,
                    and rural areas           centers at the         cybercafes were          telecommunications,
                                              District and VDC       established by 2007      photocopying and other
                                              levels by 2006                                  services) available in 67
                                                                     The component was        rural and peri-urban
                                                                     scaled up to provide     communities.
                                                                     public ICT access
                                                                     centers in 58
                                                                     locations. NTA used
                                                                     its own funds for this
                                                                     activity.




                                                     27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The economic analysis is based on the methodology and assumptions utilized
during project appraisal, but it has been populated with actual and forecasted data on total
yearly call minutes and revenue from STM Telecom Sanchar Private Limited.

2.      The methodology calculates the change in consumer surplus and expenditures
from expanded telephone access, minus the economic costs to Nepal of the private sector
provider. The approach used relies on a number of assumptions (the most important of
which involves the elasticity of demand for communications, a figure which is varied to
check for robustness). The estimated ERR of 26 percent is significantly above the hurdle
rate of 10 percent (as are low-end robustness estimates), providing a significant margin of
confidence in the economic worth of the project.

5.      Total call minutes and yearly call revenues for 2004 to 2008 are based on STM's
actual data, and data for 2009 to 2013 are from STM's forecast. The total calls are
estimated at one third of total call minutes (assuming an average call length of three
minutes). Estimates for the time and travel cost of communication in the absence of a
local telephone in Nepal utilizes the estimates from No Frills Consulting used during
appraisal due to the lack of updated study. This is necessary for calculating the cost of
traveling to a local destination plus the cost of calling from that destination as a measure
of the price of communication prior to the project8. The average (without project) cost
of travel is $3.74.

6.      The elasticity of demand for calls is also based on the same assumption during
appraisal, which is at about -0.7 for LDCs based on international experience9. The same
estimates were also used for consumer surplus, assumed at an elasticity of -0.5. The cost
of travel, the weighted cost of calling, number of calls and elasticity estimates are used to
calculate the quantity of communications carried out prior to the project. In turn, these
figures were used to calculate the change in consumer surplus and expenditure generated
by the lower cost of communication as a result of the project.

7.     The projected capital costs, cost of revenues and expenses were also based on the
same estimates as actual data was not available. Similarly import tariffs (assumed to
cover 50 percent of capital costs and 20 percent of recurrent costs) and royalty payments
were subtracted from these costs to provide an estimate of project costs to the economy.

8.      The project's ERR is estimated at 26 percent over ten years10 which is lower than
the 32 percent estimated during appraisal, but remains significantly higher than the 10
percent hurdle level. Assuming a higher elasticity of demand (-0.7), the ERR rises to 30
percent, which provides a significant margin of error for the estimates.

8
  Information available in No-Frills Consultants Report , October 1998 " Rural Telecommunications in
Nepal: A Socio-Economic Impact Study ".
9
  Saunders, Warford and Wellenius (1983) "Telecommunications and Economic Development" (op.cit.)
note that elasticity of demand is frequently estimated at close to ­1.
10
   Detailed methodology, numbers and calculations are available in project files.


                                                  28
29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Ritin Singh                  Senior Telecommunications Specialist   CITPO Task Team Leader
Rajesh B. Pradhan            Senior Financial Analyst               CITPO Financial analysis
A. Shanmugarajah             Lead Telecommunications Specialist     CITPO Radio Spectrum
                             Senior Financial Management                  Financial
Bigyan B. Pradhan                                                   SARFM
                             Specialist                                   Management
Claudia M . Pardinas Ocana   Senior Legal Cousel                    LEGMS Counsel
                                                                          Telecommunications
Gareth Locksley              Senior Telecommunications Specialist   CITPO
                                                                          policy
Kashmira Daruwalla           Senior Procurement Specialist          CITPO Procurement
Narayan Sharma               Consultant                             SARPS Procurement
Charles Kenny                Senior Economist                       CITPO Economic Analysis
Tenzin Dolma Norbhu          Young Professional                     HRSYP Telecommunications
Alberto Cruzat               Senior Telecommunications Engineer     CITPO Engineer

Supervision/ICR
Kashmira Daruwalla           Senior Procurement Specialist          CITPO Procurement
Siou Chew Kuek               E T Consultant                         CITPO Operations
                                                                           Financial
Nagendra Nakarmi             Senior Program Assistant               SARFM
                                                                           Management
Sulochana Nepali             E T Temporary                          SASDO Support
Tenzin Dolma Norbhu          Senior ICT Policy Specialist           CITPO Task Team Leader
Rajesh B. Pradhan            Adviser                                 CITST Operations
                                                                           Financial
Bigyan B. Pradhan            Sr Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
                                                                           Management
Christine Zhen-Wei Qiang     Senior Economist                       CITPO Economist
Sunita Gurung                Program Assistant                      SASDO Support
Ritin Singh                  Senior Telecommunications Specialist   CITPO Task Team Leader
Therese Cruz                 Senior Program Assistant               CITPO Support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                              20                        87.74
  FY99                                              36                       170.15
  FY00                                              33                       162.51
  FY01                                              17                        76.44
  FY02                                              22                        68.09



                                               30
                  Total:        72   568.73
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                        9       43.13
  FY03                       32      112.80
  FY04                       27      114.64
  FY05                       21       91.59
  FY06                       26      121.48
  FY07                       25      128.02
  FY08                       21      101.37
  FY09                       14        0.00
                  Total:    175      713.03




                           31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR (unedited)

Introduction

Telecommunications plays vital role in the overall development of the country. It is basic
need for development for our country. Communication services is now available in
Urban area of Nepal but three is not sufficient communication services for rural and peri -
urban area of country. In this prospect we should give high priority to Telecom services
in rural and hilly region of Nepal. This project's has focuses in rural sector. To increase
access by developing a competitive and liberalized market structure. For liberalization we
change the organizational structure of Nepal Telecom, private operator also taking part in
mobile cellular services.

RTS Rural Telecommunications operator provided two public access lines to the 534
villages of EDR ICT Public access ICT telecenters established in 8 District. This project
supported key areas which are consistent with ICT sector strategy frame work to
increasing information.

The project objective

The main objective of this project objective is to support and assisting the Ministry of
Information and Communication to develop its capacity to set policy and manage the
radio spectrum, assisting the Nepal Telecommunications Authority establish itself as an
independent and effective regulator and enabling private sector of telecommunications
services in rural areas.

Key Performance Indicators

General

   i.   Fixed and mobile penetration of 3 per 100 habitants.
  ii.   Private operator
 iii.   Competition through private sector operator.
 iv.    RTS operator provides two access lines in 534 VDC of EDR by NTA component.
  v.    Radio frequency assigned.
 vi.    ICT Access center operation. NTA component.

NTA component

   i.   Regulatory and independent body
  ii.   Project Monitoring Unit.
 iii.   Licensing body
 iv.    Part (b) of this project implementing RTS in Easter Development region.

Project Description




                                            34
  i.    PCU (Project co ordination Unit) In MOIC
 ii.    PMU (Project Monitoring Unit) In NTA

Total project costs in the preliminary phase was USD 24.55 including GON Part at initial
stage of the project but we cancelled undisbursed amount SDR 1.5 millions on
January16,2006 and SDR 2.6 millions on June 27, 2008 . Now total amount of IDA part
is SDR 13.40 millions.

The Initial Component wise budget allocation is in tabular form (in USD in millions)
Component                       Sector  Indicative % of          Bank         % of Bank
                                        Costs        total       Financing    financing
A. MOIC Component
i) Strengthen MOIC                      83           3.4         0.70         3.1
capacity
ii) Strengthen spectrum                 5.95         24.2        5.18         23
monitoring and management
iii) Support to the Project co-         1.26         5.1         1.10         4.9
ordination Unit
B. NTA
i) Strengthen NTA's Capacity            2.43         9.4         2.05         9.1
ii) Rural access subsidy                10           40.7        10           44.3
iii) Public ICT Access Center           3.53         14.4        3.53         15.6
iv) Support to the Project              .55          2.2         00           00
Management Unit (PMU)
Total project work                      24.55        100         22.56        100

Key Policy

Project supports key reform in the telecommunications sector to increase private sector.
Specific in station building will be achieved through capacity building within:

   i.   MOIC to independently define policy and co-ordinate the strategies for
        liberalization and privatization.
  ii.   NTA to manage regulatory issue.
 iii.   NTA in the RTS licensing process.
 iv.    FMD to ensure effective allocation, monitoring and management of radio
        spectrum.

The PCU in MOIC will be responsible for overall project coordination. MOIC appointed
the Project Chief to fulfill its responsibilities for project implementation, NTA will be
supported by PMU which will headed by Project manager.

The PCU will be responsible for overall reporting on the progress of the projects
implementation, preparing consolidated project accounts and project management report.
The PMU is independent of the PCU in its operations, and only provides the required
reports to the PCU for compilation and submission to IDA.


                                           35
The initial total project cost was $ 24.55 of which IDA will finance the equivalent of $22.
56 million and GON the balance of $ 1.99 million.

Technical viability is mostly a concern for the equipment required for radio spectrum
monitoring and direction finding. While this equipment is readily available it is highly
specialized. Portable monitoring and direction finding equipment is required for
compliance and interference resolution.

A technical training program for MOIC personnel on radio spectrum management,
monitoring and measuring.

Procurement of the radio spectrum equipment will be on a turnkey basis and it will
include engineering, installation, commissioning, testing, system training, one year
warranty and one year operational support consultant will assist MOIC in preparing the
tender documents for this activity.

Institutional

  i.   The executing agencies are the MOIC and the NTA
 ii.   The main responsibility for overall project management is within the PCU in
       MOIC.

Estimated project costs (in USD millions)
Project cost by component              Local           Foreign         Total
Strengthen MOIC's Capacity             0.12            0.64            0.76
Strengthen frequency management        0.70            4.71            5.41
Support to PCU                         0.91            0.24            1.15
Strengthen NTA's capacity              0.35            1.86            2.21
Rural access subsidy                   00              9.09            9.01
Public ICT access centers              00              3.21            3.21
Support to PMU                         0.50            00              0.50
Total baseline cost                    2.58            19.75           22.33
Physical contingencies                 0.15            0.16            1.11
Price contingencies                    0.14            0.97            1.11
Total project costs                    2.87            21.68           24.55
Total financing required               2.87            21.68           24.55




                                            36
 Project cost by category (in USD millions)
Project cost by category        Local                  Foreign               Total
Goods                           0.65                   18.37                 19.02
Consultants' Services           0.97                   2.86                  3.83
Training                        0.14                   0.45                  0.59
Incremental operating costs     1.11                   00                    1.11
Total project costs             2.87                   21.68                 24.55
Total finance required          2.87                   21.68                 24.55

Implementation Process

Implementation of project was guided by work plan on an annual basis. However
technical details of implementation carried out by technical staff. The NTA - RTS,
strengthening spectrum monitoring and management and training was the fundamental
components of this project and other is radio policy amend act and regulation and
privatizing telephone sectors.

The rural telecommunications services in eastern redevelopment region of Nepal
implemented by NTA. The main objective of this component is to provide two telephone
lines in each of the 534 un-served VDCs of Eastern development region (EDR) of Nepal.
The service provider in this programme was STM Telecom Sanchar Pvt. Ltd. The
contract was signed on 21 Nov 2003. This was a joint venture consortium and total
contract amount was US$ 11,865,000. This program was successfully completed. The
operator had finished this component by supplying at least 2 lines of telephone in above
mentioned VDCs. Payment was done directly from IDA. The entire contracted amount
was paid in time.

The Radio Spectrum Monitoring was another component which was carried out by
MOIC/ISRP through ICB Process. The main objective of this programme was to supply,
install, commissioning of Radio Spectrum management and monitoring of equipment.
This component of TSRP was completed on August 11, 2008. Now installed frequency
equipment is functioning satisfactory. In this component, we have a problem of
sustainability.

We faced various problems in the implementation phase of the project due to the political
situation of Nepal. We faced also the different problems in the Chovar Monitoring
Station. But in the remaining 3 stations Lubu, Pokhara and Biratnager, we implemented
smoothly. In this stage, we get great support form World Bank.

In the starting period of this project, there were so many works to be done. So the various
consultants' services were taken to fulfill project objectives. We continue the project
activities on the basis of development credit agreement. The main consultancy service
which we were taken to full till our objectives are in the tabular form in annex 1.




                                            37
According to DCA, we procured 4 numbers of vehicles and 10 numbers of motorcycles
following the world Banks Guideline. There are two monitoring vans for mobile
monitoring of frequency.

After performing above job, we learned different working style, for successful
implementation of project. We required committed team work. We should work in
according to time schedule. We must required donor agency s help in the time of we
implementation or at the starting time.

Achievement

The objective of the project was to strengthen the policy, legal and regulatory
environment in the telecommunications sector to facilitate competition and private sector
participations and increase access to services by facilitating private investment and
operation. For these jobs we appointed different consultancy service. In our conclusion
we got large achievement in the ICT sector. We were able to increase tele-density. Now
some private sector are involved in increased the tele-density in rural hilly region of
Nepal.

Performance Indicators
Target                                         Current status
1. competition in all market segment           Telecom liberating. Now we have four
through private sector operator                telecom operators Smart Telecom have
                                               been licenses which will serve in basic and
                                               rural telecommunication service.
2. Increase in total telephone penetration     2. Now the total teledensity is up to 26.05%
from 1.13 per 100 habitants to 10.00 by
and of Sept. 2008
3. RTS operator to providing services in       3. STM Telecom Sanchar Private limited is
the Eastern Development Region                 providing services 2 lines telephone in 534
                                               VDC.
4. Transparent licensing and clear rules of    4. Draft Telecom Act and Regulation was
business established                           submitted but this is not approved by
                                               cabinet yet.
5. Publish national frequency allocation       5. National frequency allocation plan was
plan by June 2003.                             published on 2004.
6. Interconnect regime by Dec. 2002.           6. Interconnection guide lines were
                                               approved by NTA in May, 2008
7. NTA to adopt transparent consultative       7. A public consultation process has been
process in its deliberations by June 2003      established and is being implemented.
8. Establish public ICT access contras at      8. Pilots to provide public ICT accesses
the district and VDC level by end 2005.        have been implemented and this process
                                               needs to be further improved.

Historical Back Ground in Sector Issue



                                              38
The contract between GON and World Bank for telecommunication sector reform was
signed on February 6, 2002. After implementing this project our telecommunications
sector performance has improved its capacity significantly. From the centralized system it
is now spreading all over the country and ICT sector is fully liberalized. This has led to
an increase in nation wise access to services and a decrease in tariffs.

Further reform would increase investment, growth of the sector and thereby increase
government revenues. If we were effectively reform its regulatory frame work and
thereby increase investment and performance of operators, Nepal may catch up with
currant penetration rates in the best performing countries of the region.

Key sector issues

Sector Governance: Current governance arrangements in the sectors are not enable to
improved sector performance. These governmental sectors are involved in the sector
MOIC as a policy maker NTA as regulator and Nepal Door Sanchar Company Limited as
operator. NTA as sector regulator needs to be more proactive especially in addressing,
ensuring improvements in service quality and encouraging infrastructure sharing.

Rural connectivity: The telecommunication services had not reached about 400 VDCs at
the end of June 2009. NTA is trying to ensure access to communications for rural
communities through the new rural operator and basic telecommunications operator
Smart Telecom and Nepal Satellite Telecom Pvt. Ltd respectively. The Rural
Telecommunications Development Fund Committee has been established. It is now time
for NTA to accelerate the implementation of program to be funded by RTDF while
ensuring transparency in the allocation of funds to operators, tie the program to achieving
broadband services in underserved and unserved areas and carryout a review in order to
assess the need to reduce the percentage collected into the fund.

Taxation in ICT sector: Taxes in the sector are disproportionately high. Further the GON
has imposed 1% import levy and 5% excise duty. Development of Alternate
Telecommunications Back Bone Networks: For a landlocked country optical ground wire
on electricity transmission infrastructure is only the viable option to provide reliable
domestic backbone connectivity. Being landlocked serious disadvantages arise in directly
accessing the international capacity of submarine cable system. Therefore NTA should
accelerate its efforts to utilize the fund from the RTDF to subsidize the rollout of OPGW
based backbone connectivity for both national and international backbones.

Broadband: Nepal does not have broadband policy yet. We should develop the
broadband policy. The broadband provides the foundation for a modern economy.

Spectrum Management and Monitoring: The Government of Nepal has invested
significant resources in the national automated spectrum management and monitoring
system. We needs to ensure that it get maximum returns from this investment. The
current arrangement for spectrum management and monitoring is not sustainable. The




                                            39
significant financial resources had been spent on procuring the spectrum management
and monitoring system and we must ensure that investment should be sustainable.

Training

At the starting of the project, some staff of MOIC took training outside the country but
Ministry of Finance did not give approval for training outside the country so MOICE
staff could not take benefit in the capacity building component.

Component wise objective

Advisory Services to TSRP, MOICE & FMD parts: Advisory services were provided in
policy formulation institutional development. A new telecom policy is ready and draft
radio act and regulation is submitted in cabinet for approval.

Capacity building of MOIC / FMD staff: So for 10 officials of the MOIC have been
trained abroad but after that Ministry of Finance (MOF) made a policy that not to give the
permission for training abroad. Due to this policy of MOF the capacity building of
MOIC/FMD staff did not completed.

 Strengthening MOIC & PCU: 4 numbers of vehicles, 10 numbers of motorcycles,
computer ultra power supply, printers, fax machines and photocopiers were procured to
strengthen MOIC Planning Section and FMD.

Advisory services to FMD: National frequency allocation plan and spectrum pricing
strategy had prepared. The procurement of frequency monitoring equipment is also
completed. We extend the contract for one year with Interconnect Communications UK
to support, supervise and certification of frequency monitoring equipment.

Support to MOIC & PCU: Sufficient budget was allocated. The regular supervision
mission from the World Bank was great support to implement various activities of this
project.

Advisory Service to NTA: Studies and advisory services on a range of regulatory issues
including RTS licensing interconnection, tariffs and licensing regime, NTA actively
finished their proposed programme in the different sector.

Capital Subsidy: Rural communication provided by RTS operators based on ICB process.
The Progress resulted the installation of 2/2 line telephone services in 534 VDCS of EDR
were completed. In the report of completion by consulates, the 100 per cent of milestone
is completed and all the payment made by the World Bank was as a direct payment.

Support to NTA & PMU: Support to NTA & PMU so far not any problems appeared in
the course of the implementation. PCU supported regularly to NTA & PMU. The Bank is
and borrower's performance to implement (initial and final) remained excellent. The
World Bank had supported and advised time to time to implement the project smoothly.



                                            40
The World Bank had guided us in various sector issues also for timely implementation of
project activities. The World Bank also had supported us in financial management and
counterpart finding.

Category wise Budget Allocations, Disbursement and Balance
From FY 2001/02 To July 2008/09 IDA Parts:
                 Budget Allocation
Category no      XDR                    Disbursed Amount XDR               Balance XDR
1(a) Goods       2,680,000.00           2,291,616.33                       388,383.67
1(b) Goods       8,220,000.00           7,958,875.09                       261,124.91
2(a) Consultancy 1,531,000.00           1,178,634.01                       352,365.99
2( b)
Consultancy      783,000.00             408,476.53                         374,523.47
3(a) Training    50,000.00              44,600.12                          5,399.88
3(b) Training    30,000.00              25,561.84                          4,438.16
4 Incremental
Costs            106,000.00             66,940.11                          39,059.89
Totals           13,400,000.00          11,974,704.03                      1,425,295.97

Licensing Regime (NTA-TA-1)

A. Objective of the Consultancy

   i.   Review, recommend, revise/harmonize the existing Telecom license so that they
        are compatible with open licensing regime.
 ii.    Develop licensing guidelines and frameworks for different services compatible
        with open licensing regime
 iii.   Develop monitoring parameters for various types of license to be issued under
        open licensing regime.
 iv.    Assist in developing the capacity of NTA staff by transfer of skills to effectively
        implement open licensing regime
  v.    Suggest improvements in existing license fee structure, etc.

B. Parties name with which NTA has signed the contract for accomplishment

McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Toronto Canada

C. Contract Signed Date

22nd Sept. 2003

D. Total Contract Amount

US$ 261,794.00 (including tax)

E. Major achievement of the Consultancy/Project


                                             41
Based on the documents submitted by the consultant, the Authority had prepared and
submitted to the Ministry of Information & Communications the proposed amendments
to the existing legislations.

F. Difficulties encountered in implementation period

G. Last payment made

23rd Sept 2004

H. Deliverables.

The consultant had submitted the following documents:

    i.   Amendments to the Telecommunications Act;
   ii.   Telecommunications Licensing Regulation;
 iii.    Telecommunications Licensing Bylaw;
  iv.    Model Licence for IP Telephony Service;
   v.    Model Licene for GMPCS Service;
  vi.    Model Licence for Radio Paging Service;
 vii.    Model Licence for VSAT Network Service;
viii.    Model Licence for ISP Service.

Tariff and Interconnection Regime (NTA-TA-2)

A. Objective of the Consultancy

   i.    To develop the guidelines for Price-cap mechanism for the regulation of telecom
         tariffs under price-cap regulation and suggest improvements in Guidelines for
         Tariff Approval for Telecommunications Services.
  ii.    To develop an interconnection regime appropriate for a competitive
         telecommunications market in Nepal and suggest improvements in Guidelines for
         Interconnection and develop interconnection regulations.
 iii.    To assist in developing the capacity of NTA staff by transfer of skills to
         effectively implement and address the tariff and interconnection regime.
  iv.    To develop coordination mechanism in interconnection issues among the
         responsible operators.
   v.    To provide NTA with a methodology for reviewing and assessing tariff proposals
         submitted by operators. This methodology should be based upon world best
         practices for comparable markets.
  vi.    To develop appropriate tariff and interconnection regulations approval by HMG.

B. Parties name with which NTA has signed the contract for accomplishment




                                            42
Spectrum Strategy Consultants, London, UK and Total Management Services,
Kathmandu, Nepal.

C. Contract Signed Date

22nd January 2004

D. Total Contract Amount

US$ 171,376.70 (including tax)

E. Major achievement of the Consultancy/Project

Based on the documents submitted by the consultant, the Authority had prepared the
Interconnection Guidelines, which has been enforced.

F. Difficulties encountered in implementation period

G. Last payment made

H. Deliverables.

The consultant had submitted the following documents:
   i.  Final Report;
  ii.  Interconnection Rules;
 iii. Tariff Rules;
 iv.   Document on Reference Interconnection Offer.

Development of the Public Consultation Process (NTA-TA-3)

A. Objective of the Consultancy

The overall objective is to assist NTA in developing a process for carrying out public
Consultation - to provide the public and related Stakeholders with due opportunity to
participate in the regulatory process and also assist NTA in reaching decisions acceptable
to stakeholders.

B. Parties name with which NTA has signed the contract for accomplishment

World of Training

C. Contract Signed Date

5th January 2004

D. Total Contract Amount



                                            43
US$ 69,411.76

E. Major achievement of the Consultancy/Project

The Consultant is expected to develop the process for various Stakeholders: Conduct two
real Consultations and Consultant shall transfer the skills to the NTA Staff.

Focus Group Discussion, Polling, Interactive Workshops, Public Hearings.

F. Difficulties encountered in implementation period

G. Last payment made

30th June 2004

H. Deliverables.

The consultant had submitted the Final Completion Report.

Monitoring, Evaluation and Certification of Rural Telecommunications Services
(NTA-TA-4)

A. Objective of the Consultancy

  i.   To monitor and evaluate the implementation of the rural PCOs by STM Telecom
       Sanchar Pvt. Ltd. in Eastern development region of Nepal
 ii.   To certify the achievement of Rural Telecommunications Services in EDR in
       accordance with the milestones set in STM's license that triggers the STM's
       payment.

B. Parties name with which NTA has signed the contract for accomplishment.

Planetworks Consulting, Canada in association with Total Management Services, Nepal.

C. Contract Signed Date

4th February 2004

D. Total Contract Amount

US $ 195,294.11 + NPR 3,458,823.53, all inclusive of taxes.

E. Major achievement of the Consultancy




                                          44
Based on the certificates issued by the consultant, the Authority had recommended to the
Ministry of Information & Communications for the release of STM's subsidy payment
amounting to US $ 11,865,000.00.

Based on the monitoring report submitted by the consultant, the Authority had instructed
STM to improve its network quality as well as to Nepal Telecom for sorting out
interconnection issues.

F. Difficulties encountered in implementation period

No progress from the 3rd milestone due to shut down of the STM's network by the then
Government. Independent Technical Consultant (ITC) visited Nepal from September 8 to
26, 2005 and declared the force majeure situation on September 11, 2005.

G. Last payment made

10th August 2007

H. Deliverables.

The consultant had submitted the following documents:
   i.  Inception report;
  ii.  Monitoring reports of all the 5 milestones;
 iii. Certificates for triggering the STM's payment;
 iv.   Final completion report.

Rural Telecom Services (NTA-RTS)

A. Objective of the Consultancy/Project.

To provide at least two telephone lines in each of the 534 un-served VDCs of the Eastern
Development Region (EDR) of Nepal.

B. Parties name to which NTA issued the license for accomplishment.

STM Telecom Sanchar Pvt. Ltd.

C. License Issue Date:               21st November 2003

D. Effective Date of License:        17th December 2003

E. Total Subsidy Amount

US$ 11,865,000.00

E. Major achievement of the Project



                                           45
Installation and operation of 1068 PCOs in un-served VDCs of Eastern Development
Region of Nepal

F. Difficulties encountered in implementation period

Due to shut down of the network by the then Government, STM vide its letter dated 3rd
June 2005 notified NTA about the force majeure situation, which Independent Technical
Consultant (ITC) certified the force majeure situation on September 11, 2005. With the
decision of Ministry of Information and Communications and Nepal Telecommunications
Authority the locations mentioned in RTS license was amended on 10th July 2006 to
resume the project work.

G. Last payment made

31st October 2006 against the bank guarantee of the same amount. This bank guarantee
was released on 11th March 2007.

H. Deliverables.

The licensee had submitted the following documents:
  i.   Progress report during the time of installation;
 ii.   Monthly status report on QoS monitoring during the project period.




                                          46
Annex for Borrower's ICR
Category wise distribution and achievement of telecommunications sector reform project
Category: Consultants' Services
SNo.   Name of Consultant     Contract and         Objectives                Achievement                       Problem          Cur   Contract Amount           Amount Paid     Remarks
                               Signed Date                                                                 Encountered
1.     Spectrum Strategy      FMDS -1          Consultancy             Prepared national                 Not encountered.      USD                  99,900.00       99,900.00
       Consultant Pvt. Ltd.   21 March 2003    services for            Frequency allocation plan.
                                               preparation of
                                               national Frequency
                                               allocation plan
2.     Spectrocan Solution    FMDS-2, 30       Consultancy             Gave various suggestion           Not encountered       USD                 425,452.94      425,452.94
       Ltd.                   May 2003         services of spectrum    for spectrum management
                                               management
3.     Interconnect           FMDS-3, 21       Support and             Support and supervised in         After termination     GBP                 244,317.64      244,317.74
       Communications UK      May 2003         supervision of the      national automated Radio          of contract date we
                                               spectrum                spectrum management and           again contract to
                                               management and          mentoring system                  run project in
                                               monitoring system.                                        time.
4.     McCarthy Tetrault      NTA- 01 22       Specialized             Gave different advice how         Not encountered       USD                 261,794.00      261,794.00
       LLP                    Sept. 2003       regulatory advice       to    regulate      licensing
                                               licensing regime.       regime
5.     Spectrum Strategy      NTA-02, 22 Jan   To develop              Prepared                   the    Not                   USD                 171,376.70      171,376.70
       Consultants U.K.       2004             appropriate tariff      interconnection Guidelines
                                               and interconnection     which has been enforced
                                               regime approval by
                                               GON.
6.     World of Training      NTA-03 ,5 Jan    The objects to assist   Conducted        two       real   None                  USD                  69,411.76       69,411.76
                              2004             NTA in developed        consultations              and
                                               process for currying    consultants.
                                               out public




                                                                                              0
                                           consultation.
7.   Planet Work          NTA-04 , 4 Feb   To monitor and        Certified for payment          None   USD   195,294.11 + 3,458,823.53     All paid.
     Consultant           2004             evaluate the
                                           implementation of
                                           rural telecom by
                                           STM Sanchar Ltd.
                                           in EDR.
8    Teleplanning A.      PS-2 17 April    Consultant service    Gave various suggestions       None   USD                 191,976.47       all paid
     Wirzenius Ltd.       2003             on specialized        for    making    specialized
                                           policy Advice.        policy.
9    Anderson             PS-3             Consultants service   Gave      different   report
     Management                            on specialized        including        specialized
     International A/S                     policy advice         policy
                                           institutional
                                           development
10   Organization         PS-4, 13 Sept.   Consultancy           Prepared guide lines for       None   USD                 240,874.11    249,874.11
     Development Center   2004             services on           ICT access in rural and
                                           increasing ICT        per-urban areas of Nepal.
                                           accession rural and
                                           peri-urban areas of
                                           Nepal
11   Pentascope           PS- 5, 22 Sep.   Consultancy service   They gave the various          None   USD                 369,450.59    369,450.11
     International BV     2004             for study on NTC.     report                    on
                                           Commercialization     commercialization of NTC




                                                                                       1
Category: Goods
SNo.   Name of contractor            Contract and signed       Objectives                Achievement               problems             Cur   Contract Amount      Amount paid        Remarks
                                     date                                                                          encountered
1.     TCI International INC USA     NARSMMS-9G-05/06, 3       Design, supply,           We supply and installed   Few problems         USD         3,851,489.00       3,851,489.00
                                     October, 2007.            installation, and         spectrum monitoring       were encountered.
                                                               commissioning of          equipment and they are
                                                               National automated        functioning well
                                                               Radio spectrum
                                                               management and
                                                               monitoring system.
                                                               Procurement of
                                                               spectrum monitoring
                                                               equipment.
2.     Joint Venture Consortium      NTA - RTS 21 Nov.         To provide at least two   Installed , operated of   Due to shut down     USD        11,865,000.00      11,865,000.00
       Led by STM                    2003                      telephone lines in each   1068 PCOS in un served    of network , STM
       communications Services                                 of the 534 Un served      VDCs of eastern           provide its letter
       Inc.                                                    VDCs of the eastern       Development region        3rd June 2005
                                                               development region of     (EDR)                     notified NTA
                                                               Nepal                                               about a force
                                                                                                                   majeure situation
3      The Waves Group Trading       03G -0314 2 April 2004    Procurement of            Make MOIC full                                 USD            21,035.00          21,035.00
       Pvt. Ltd.                                               computers, printers,      equipped and fulfill
                                                               UPS photocopiers.         necessary
4.     Agni In corporate Pvt. Ltd.   TSRP-2G-03                Supply and delivery of    We procured and they                           IC            200,000.00         200,000.00
                                                               4 WD Jeep.                are giving services
5      United Traders Syndicate      0 4G-0314 2 April 2004    Procurement of a          We achieved property                           USD            44,000.00          44,000.00
       Pvt. Ltd.                                               double cab pickup         and giving service to
                                                                                         MOIC TSRP
6.     Mercantile Traders Nepal      14G -06/7, 26 June 2007   Procurement of heavy-     Procured                                       NRP           375,885.00         375,885.00
                                                               duty photocopy




                                                                                         2
7    Invision Pvt. Ltd.         13G-06/7, 5 Jul 2007   Procurement of laptop,   Procured   NRP     339,249.00      339,249.00
                                                       Desktop computers
8    Hansraj Hulaschand and     05G-03/04,march 2004   Procurement of motor     Procured   NRP     639,495.00      639,495.00
     Company Pvt. Ltd                                  cycle.
9    The waves Group Trading    01G-00231 Jan, 2003    Supply and delivery of   Procured   USD      26,090.00       26,990.00
     Pvt. Ltd.                                         computer, printers ups
                                                       and photocopies




10   United Traders Syndicate   06G-04/5, 9 Feb 2005   Supply and delivery of   Supplied   JY    19,850,000.00   19,850,000.00
     Pvt. Ltd.                                         one car
11   InfoTech Computer Pvt.     ISRP-10G -05/05 , 8    Supply and delivery of   Supplied   NPR    122,9700.00     122,9700.00
     Ltd.                       May 2006               computer, printers ups
                                                       and photocopies




                                                                                3
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                    0
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
  1. Project Appraisal Document
  2. Project Supervision Mission Aide Memoires




                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 26085
      80°                                                                                                82°                                                                                                                             84°                                                                                                                                      86°                                                                                                           88°




                                                                       H u m la
                                                                                  Karn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEPAL
30°                                                                                      a li                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30°

                                                                                                     HUMLA
                                     DARCHULA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRIMARY ALL-WEATHER HIGHWAYS                                                                         AIRPORTS:
                                     Darchula
                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAVELLED/EARTHEN ROADS                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL
                                                           BAJHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                       C       H            I        N               A                                                                                                            ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                  DOMESTIC (PAVED)
                                         L




                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MOUNTAIN ECOLOGICAL ZONE                                                                             SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
                     ali




                                                                Chainpur                                K                 MUGU
                                     A




                                                                                                                                          Mugu
                    ak




                                                                                                                    A                             K a rn a
                                                                                                                                                             li                                                                                                                                                                                   HILL ECOLOGICAL ZONE                                                                                 MUNICIPALITIES
                ah




                                                F A R                                                                          R
                M




                                                                            BAJURA                                                            N
                    BAITADI
                                 K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TERAI ECOLOGICAL ZONE                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                T
                                                                                                                                                      A
                                     W E S T E R N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KATHMANDU VALLEY                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                       L
                             A




                                                     Dipayal
                     Dadeldhura                        Silgadhi                                             Jumla                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                  Sanefabagar                                                                                               I
                                                           E




                                                                                                                    JUMLA
                         H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZONE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                       KALIKOT
                DADELDHURA                   DOTI
                                                                ACHHAM                                                  M I D                                               DOLPA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDARIES
                    A




Mahendranagar
                                                                                                      W E S T E R N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                       S




                                                            Karnali R.                                                                                                                                                   MUSTANG
                M




            KANCHANPUR                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                       DAILEKH           JAJARKOT
                                             KAILALI                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                         I

                                                                                                                                              RUKUM                                                             G
                                     Dhangadhi                      SURKHET                                                                                                                                 A                        Ma             MANANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                    R




                                Gaun                                                                                    Jajarkot                                                                                                          rsya
                                           Kailali                                         Birendranagar
                                                                             Bh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ngd                                Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                                   A                                                     i
                                                                                  er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                iG
                                                                                   i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ak
                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                           A MYAGDIW E S T E R N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nd
                                                                            Bab                                                                                                                                                                                                                        nd
                                                                                                                   SALYAN                                                                                                                                                                                   ak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ga
                                                                                  ai                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i
                                                                BARDIYA                                                                                           I                    H
                                                                                                                        Sitdipati
                                                                                                                                                  T                                D                                                  G             A                 N      D         A               K             I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                li
                                                                                       H




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ka
                                                                                                                                          P           Libang
                                                                                                                             A                                                   BAGLUNG                                             KASKI       LAMJUNG
                                                                                            Kohalpur                R                ROLPA                                                    Baglung                                    Pokhara    Besishahar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GORKHA
                                                                             B




                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARBAT                                                                                                                               i RASUWA
                                                                                                                                                                                GULMI                                                                                                                                                       ul
                                                                                                                    Tulsipur                                                                                                                                                                                                           is
                                                                                           Nepalganj
                                                                                                                                                         PYUTHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                Tamghas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B   A   Tr                                             To
28°                                                                                                           Tribhuuvannagar                                     Pyuthan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ting-jih                                               Mt. Everest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       28°
                                                                                                  BANKE                                                                                                              SYANGJA                                                               Gorkha                                                        A T
                                                            Nepalganj Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NUWAKOT                                  I   Kodari
                                                                                                                                                                                   Sandikharka                                                                                                         DHADING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TANAHU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mugling                                  Bidur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                      ARGHAKHANCHI                                                                                                                                                                                            Barhabise
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PALPA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                          DANGDEUKHURI                                                                          Tansen
                                                                                                                                                                                              L       U         M        B       I   N         I                                                                                      KATHMANDU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                 Koilabas                                                                 Butwal                                                                                                                       Kathmandu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U
                                                                                                                                                                       KAPILBASTU                                                                                                                                    Naubise
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BHAKTAPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lamosangu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i       SOLUKHUMBU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bharatpur                                      Lalitpur                                                                           sh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NAWALPARASI                             R.                                                                                           Charikot                           Jiri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ko                                 SANKHUWASABHA                    TAPLEJUNG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T
                                                                                                                                                                                     RUPANDEHI                                                                                                                                     Banepa       Dhulikhel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   yani




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                             Taulihawa             Bhairahawa                                             Nara                          CHITWAN                                                              Bhaktapur                                                 a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LALITPUR                                                    Ta                                   E A S T E R N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                 ( Siddhar t hanagar)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Parasi                                                                                                Bhimphedi
                                                                   G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RAMECHHAP                                                                         Num
                                                                    ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A                                                              PALANCHOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INDIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hetauda MAKWANPUR
                                                                       gh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R                                                                                              OKHALDHUNGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                               Rap                                                                                                                                      Bhikhathori
                                                                       ar




                                                                                                                                     ti                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taplejung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nautanwa
                                                                                   I       N         D         I        A
                                                                         a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y         C E N T R A L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bhikhna Thori




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A                                                                                                     shi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARSA                                                                                                                      Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                                SINDHULI                                                  dh              BHOJPUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C
                                                                                                                                                                                       Gorakpur                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Du




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                        KHOTANG    Bhojpur                          Phidim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sindhulimadi                         Bhaduare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BARA                                                                                                                                           m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                 Shikarpur                                                                                                                                                                              DHANKUTA Ta PANCHTHAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        an                                      Birgani




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kalaiya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             da                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dhankuta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  k                                                                                                                                        la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RAUTAHAT                   SARLAHI                                    ma                                                                                     Ilam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ka                                               sh i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Raxaul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sun Ko




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Malangwa                                                                    UDAYPUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ILAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dharan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ko
                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SIRAHA     Gaighat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To                                                                DHANUSHA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gaur                                                               Lahan
                                                                                                                                                                                           Ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pt
                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sagauli                                                                                                                                      SUNSARI
                                                                                                                                                                                              pt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Janakpur                                                                                            Damak                           Siliguri
                                                                                                                                                                                                  i




                    any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Siraha                                   Inaruwa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jaleswar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             mat
                    or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MORANG          JHAPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAPTARI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chandragadhi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jaynagar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  al
            0                   40               80                  120                        160 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rajbiraj                                                                   Bhadrapur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Birpur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Biratnagar
            0              20              40              60               80                   100 MILES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jogbani




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               hi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ec
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BANGLADESH
26°   80°                                                                                                   82°                                                                                                                          84°                                                                                                                                      86°                                                                                                           88°                    26°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUGUST 1994
