Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16 4 9 0
IMPLEIMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
April 15, 1997
.griculture & Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Baht per tJS$)
Year                                Exchange Rate
1990 (Appraisal Year)            -            B25.80
1996 (Completion Year)                        1325.30
WEIGHTS ANI) MEASURES
I rai                                          0.16 hectare
I hectare (ha)                                 6.25 rai
FISCAL YEAR
October I to Septemnber 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDAB    -    Austialiani International [)cvelopment Assistance Bureau
AusAID    -    Australiain Agency for International Development
BIT        -    Bangkok Institute of Technology
Bf-IS      -    Bangkok L.and lnf'ormationi System
CVA        -    Central Valuation Autbority
DOL        -    Department oftLands
IC'R       -    Implemenitation Completion Report
NS2        -    Plre-emptive C'ertiticate
NS3        -    Certificate of UJtilization
NS3K       -    Certificate of Utilization based on aerial photography
NS4        -    TI'tlte Deed or C'hainod
LACO       -    Iand Acquisitioni Office
LT''PO     -    Land Titling Project Office
LDD       -    Lanid Development Department
lIS        -    l anid lnlormatioin Systems
l T'P I    -    L,and 'itling Project
L'FP 11    -    Second Land Titling Plroject
1'TP III    -    T'lhird Ltand'Titling Project
LADT       -    L and Adiniilistiation Development 'Team
RlF)       -    Roy.al Forestry l)epartment
R I'SD     -    Roval Thai Survey Department
RTG        -    loval Thai (overnment
Vice President:    .Jean-Michel Severino. FAI'
Director:          Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chietf    Jeffrev Guiman. F1AI\ 1 AL'
'I'ask Manager:    Konirald von Ritter / Frank Byamugisha, L'A I AL



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................................i
PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ............................................................................i
IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND  RESULTS ......................................................................,.,.i
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................... ii
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................................................                                               I
A. PROJECT  OBJECTIVES .....................................................................1I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................;.2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RECORD .......................................5
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................................9
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE ............................................................................9
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ............................................................................9
G. COFINANCIER'S PERFORMANCE ...........................................................................                                             10
H. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ...........................................................................                                                10
1. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ...........................................................................                                                    10
J. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................................................                                                   10
PART  II: STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ....................................................................                                                      II
TABLE  1:    SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ...........................................................................                                      12
TABLE  2:    RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ...........................................................................                                 13
TABLE  3:    PROJECT TIMETABLE ...........................................................................                                            14
TABLE 4:  LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............... 14
TABLE  5A:  KEY  INDICATORS  FOR  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................... 14
TABLE  5B:  TITLE  DEEDS PRODUCTION  BY  PROVINCES .......................................................................... 16
TABLE  5C:  TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE ...........................................................................                                        17
TABLE  6A:   KEY  INDICATORS  FOR  PROJECT  OPERATION... ................................................................... 17
TABLE  6B:  OPERATIONAL  PLAN ...........................................................................                                            18
TABLE  7:    STUDIES ...........................................................................                                                     19
TABLE  8A:  PROJECT  COSTS ........................................................................... 20
TABLE  8B:  PROJECT  FINANCING ...........................................................................                                           20
TABLE  8C:  PROJECT  FINANCING  BY  EXPENDITURES ...........................................................................  21
TABLE  9A:  ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ...........................................................................                                21
TABLE  9B:  TAX  RECEIPTS OF DEPARTMENT  OF LANDS ......................................................................... 21
TABLE  9C:  BENEFICIARIES ...........................................................................                                                22
TABLE 9D: COSTS OF PRODUCTION OF TITLE DEED UNDER LAND TITLING PROJECTS ................. 22
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...........................................................................                                    23
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........................................... 23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .........................................                                                              24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS  ......................................... 25
APPENDICES .........................................                                                                                              26
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C. Cofinancier's Contribution to the ICR
MAP IBRD 21 956R



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Land Titling Project
(LTP II) in Thailand, for which Loan 3254-TH in the amount of US$30.0 million was approved
on September 4, 1990 and made effective February 7, 1991. The Loan closed on September 30,
1996, twelve months after the original closing date of September 30, 1995. Final disbursement
took place on December 9, 1996 at which time a balance of US$647, 475.36 was canceled. The
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) financed technical assistance and
human resource development in the amount of AUD7.3 million on a parallel basis.
The initial draft of the ICR was prepared by the Bank's supervision mission in October
1994 and was finalized by Konrad von Ritter, with assistance from Frank Byamugisha of the
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division, Country D)epartment 1, East Asia and Pacific
Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jeffrey Gutman, Chief, EA I AE, and Walter Schwermer, Project
Advisor, EAIDR. The Borrower and Cofinancier provided comments that are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Report Parts I and III are based on the findings of World Bank missions that visited
Thailand in September 1994 and December 1995. The ICR incorporated information obtained
from Staff Appraisal Report (Report 8538-TH) dated August 7, 1990; the Loan Agreement dated
October 12, 1990; Bank supervision reports and project files; field visits to selected project sites;
discussions with the Borrower project staff and AusAID project advisers; and interviews with
staff of government departments concerned with the project. Department of' Lands (DOL)
prepared the Government's evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation which is
included in the Appendices.
The Bank wishes to thank Borrower officials and AusAID project advisers for their
valuable assistance in preparing this ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
I.    This Project supported the second phase of the National Accelerated Cadastral Mapping
and Land Titling Program. The principal objectives of the project were to provide secure land
tenure to eligible land owners, to improve land administration, and to develop an effective
national property valuation function.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
2.    This project made an important contribution to Thailand's 20-year Land Titling Program,
under which so far about 5.5 million land titles have been issued to an estimated 2 million rural
households. The program, which is in its third phase and planned to be completed in 2004, has
been implemented very successfully, had a demonstration effect world-wide and served as an
example to many of the land titling projects under implementation (with Bank support) and
others under preparation. Building on the experiences of a successful first phase project, the
Second Land Titling Project achieved its objectives, and its performance was highly satisfactory.
3.    The project achieved or exceeded most of its physical targets. The cadastral map
production exceeded appraisal estimates. About 2.0 million parcels of land were awarded title
deeds. The original appraisal target of 3 million parcels was revised down over the first two
years as the estimator factors became better known (population/household/parcel size) and
because about 20 percent of parcels are difficult to adjudicate because of absent land holders,
inheritance issues, undecided forest boundaries, deficient evidence and uncooperative
mortgagees. The project team considered the revised targets for title issuance more appropriate
and the titling rate highly satisfactory for a systematic adjudication process.
4.    The institutional development program for DOL has been successful in establishing a
decentralized and more efficient land administration function. Human resource management and
development, however, is taking a longer time to address and is being supported under LTP III.
Similarly, while progress has been made in building the institutional capacity of the CVA
through training and incentive programs, the major part of the training effort remains to be
implemented under LTP III.



5.    At the planned time of project completion in September 1994, the project was
substantially completed, as measured by the status of project investments and disbursements.
Physical project targets had been achieved on time, except for the completion of a new building
whose completion had been delayed by a change of contractors as the first one went bankrupt.
6.    There were some minor problems with procurement, cost overruns, and project planning
and management. A temporary shortage of photomaps as a result of delayed procurement of
aerial photography slowed down land adjudication and titling activities. There also occurred a
cost overrun when an increase in staff salaries and unit costs resulted in about a 15 percent
increase in total project costs; but the Government covered the increased costs with additional
funding. Project planning and management continue to need attention, due to the size and
complexity of the land titling process. The institutional structure lacked flexibility to establish
close inter-divisional coordination required for systematic land titling. Both at Department and
project levels, project planning and management need strengthening which is being supported
under the on-going Third Land Titling Project (LTP III). At the project level, the use of
computerized project implementation planning is not yet operational, although its effectiveness
has been demonstrated. It is receiving further support under LTP III.
7.    It is too early to report on long-term impacts of title issuance; however, certain short-term
effects were monitored in LTP I and II project areas through socio-economic studies. These
studies reported improved access to institutional credit, increased land values, and land
improvements resulting in higher land productivity, particularly in the rural areas of the
Northeast and the Upper North where absolute poverty has been high (Baht 4,400 or US$173 per
capita).
8.    Overall, the outcome of the project was highly satisfactory, and is expected to be
sustainable.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.    A subsequent Land Titling Project (LTP III, Loan 3797-TH) which became effective in
January 1995, supports follow-up activities, presented in the Operational Plan in Table 6B, to
establish the physical infrastructure and the necessary technical and human capacity in DOL to
sustain land administration activities. Financially, land administration has already become self-
sustaining since the fiscal revenues generated from land transactions ensure full cost recovery.
10.   The main lessons learned are:
(a) Systematic land adjudication remains the most effective approach to accelerated land
titling under Thai conditions;
(b) Targets for land titling under the systematic land adjudication approach must
consider constraints such as unclear boundaries with forestry, areas undergoing land
reform, and lack of clear ownership evidence. A titling rate of 80 percent of parcels
identified by the adjudication teams appears to be a realistic target;



- iii -
(c) Sustainable institutional changes require a long-term framework and sustained
efforts, often beyond the time horizon of one project; and
(d) The following factors are essential to project success as evidenced by the LTP II:
* strong management, particularly in planning and implementation of systematic
adjudication and land titling;
* continuous TA by a resident team of advisors; and
*  flexibility in project implementation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    When Thailand started its national land titling program in 1983, less than an estimated 13
percent of agricultural land was documented by a title deed. Most of the agricultural land was
either undocumented, or covered by a number of pre-ownership certificates. This situation
contributed to a number of well-recognized problems, including: (a) lack of secure tenure for
many genuine land owners and consequently lower investments in long-term productivity of
land; (b) increasing numbers of landless people and tenants, especially in rural areas; (c)
increasing forest encroachment and environmental degradation; and (d) a high rate of squatter
settlement in rural and urban areas.
2.    To address this situation, the Government embarked on the implementation of a 20-year
accelerated national land titling program under its Fifth National Economic and Social
Development Plan (1982-86). The main objectives of the Plan for agriculture and the rural sector
were to reduce rural poverty and to increase agricultural productivity while preventing
environmental deterioration. These objectives were to be achieved by improving rural
infrastructure and by implementing a land use and incentives policy to promote intensification.
A key element of the policy was the issuance of title deeds to all legitimate land occupiers
through implementation of an accelerated land titling program which included cadastral
surveying and mapping, and adjudication of title deeds. The first of the four phases was
supported by the Bank and AusAID under the Land Titling Project (LTP 1), implemented
between 1985 and 1991. The Second Land Titling Project (LTP II), the subject of this report,
supported the second phase from 1991 to 1994. Phase 3 is currently being supported under the
Third Land Titling Project (LTP 111), which became effective in January 1995. The program
initially covered nine provinces with high rural poverty but included later, in Phases 2 and 3,
rapidly industrializing provinces with higher incomes.
3.    The principal objectives of the project were to provide secure land tenure to eligible land
owners, to improve land administration, and to develop an effective national property valuation
function. Specifically, the project aimed at: (a) issuing secure land titles and thereby facilitating
access to institutional credit, promoting investments in land, and increasing agricultural
productivity and family incomes as a basis for poverty reduction; (b) improving land
administration service delivery through institutional strengthening, decentralization of the
Department of Land's (DOL) operations and completion of an improved national cadastre; and



-2-
(c) increasing government revenues from land through strengthening the Central Valuation
Authority's capacity to provide more accurate and timely valuations for land tax and
expropriation.
4.     The objectives were well chosen. They were consistent with the priorities of Thailand's
national program and they addressed underlying key issues of rural poverty, in line with the
priorities of the Bank's country assistance strategy for Thailand.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.     The project substantially achieved its major objectives of providing secure land tenure,
improving land administration services to the public, and increasing government tax revenues
from land. It also made an important contribution to Thailand's very successful 20-year Land
Titling Program, under which so far about 5.5 million titles have been issued to an estimated 2
million rural households, representing nearly half of the country's rural households.
Secure Land Tenure
6.     Socio-economic Impact. An estimated 700,000 rural landholding families have
benefited directly from the project. The much smaller urban program was concentrated in
Bangkok and the municipalities of the aforementioned rural areas, where it helped to create an
environment of secure property rights, which in turn facilitated the growth of manufacturing and
service industries and employment generation. It is too early to report on long-term impacts of
title issuance; however, certain short-term effects were monitored in LTP I and II project areas
through socio-economic studies. These studies reported improved access to institutional credit,
increased land values, and land improvements resulting in higher land productivity, particularly
in the rural areas of the Northeast and Upper North where absolute poverty has been high (Baht
4,400 or US$173 per capita). These results are based on findings from baseline surveys and
follow-up studies in the Northeastern and Northern provinces and a post-evaluation survey
undertaken in 1990-1991, about 2 years after the issuance of land titles . After netting out the
differences in land quality, and in agro-climatic and government infrastructure support, the
studies concluded that land titling had the following impact:
(a)    legal title is the most significant factor in explaining the differences in land prices.
Title-equivalent land was between 75 percent- 192 percent more valuable than
undocumented land, and between 113 percent-1 95 percent more valuable than
state land occupied by squatters b/. The direct costs of providing full title were
equivalent to only 0.6 percent to 5.6 percent of the market value of untitled land.
The resulting benefit/cost ratios of providing titles to occupants of undocumented
/  Center for Applied Economics Research, Faculty of Economics, Kasetsart University, July 1993.
b   See: (i) Feder et al (1988), Land Policies and Farm Productivity in Thailand, Johns Hopkins press; and (ii)
Chalamwong and Feder (1988), The Economic Implication of Land Documents in Rural Thailand, Agriculture
Administration and Extension, pages 123-133.



-3-
state land ranged from 4.5 to 12. Even if such ratios were discounted by half, the
benefits still substantially outweigh the costs;
(b)  farmers with land titles (as compared to those without such documents) used farm
inputs (including labor, draft power and other farm inputs) more intensively by 10
to 30 percent, resulting in an increase of agricultural output value by 8 to 27
percent.
7.    The evidence on the impact of land titling on access to credit is not conclusive. Data on
the number of farmers borrowing from formal credit sources indicated a small increase in one
project area and a decline in another project area. Variables, other than the possession of land
titles, such as the existence of a nearby branch office of a bank, assets of the household, and
liquidity play an important role in explaining the supply of farm credit. However, compared to
non-project areas, there was a marked shift away from informal towards formal sources of
credit.
8.    Some of the possible long-term effects of land titling are not yet fully understood and
require more study, including the impact on rural income, the concentration of property, rural
migration, and changes in the inheritance patterns and related intra-family conflicts. Further
study is also required to analyze the use of increased loan funds. These issues will be addressed
in follow-up studies under LTP III.
9.    Achievement of Physical Targets. Physical targets for land titling and mapping have
been substantially achieved. All physical targets of aerial photography and cadastral surveying
and mapping have been achieved or exceeded (Table SA), while annual production of title deeds
was about 500,000 parcels, almost double the annual output (270,000) obtained under LTP I,
although the original target at appraisal of 3 million title deeds had to be revised to 2.09 million
(further discussed below).
Improving Land Administration Services
10.   Land administration development objectives were not fully achieved. There was a marked
improvement in service standards as a result of decentralization, process changes resulting in
shorter processing times, and an improved land information system. Important organizational
developments were initiated, e.g., in the field of human resource development, but will be fully
implemented only under the follow-up LTP III.
11.   Ready public access to land administration services has improved through the opening of
67 new branch land offices resulting in the reduction of distance and travel time for conducting
land transactions. Survey backlogs have considerably decreased but remain a problem: due to
staff shortages, provision of surveying services to the public remains slow and a new regulation
in 1992 allowing private surveyors to undertake resurveys and land subdivision had only a very
limited effect in some urban areas, due to the small number of private surveyors.



-4-
12.   Improved service standards were achieved in land office operations where
computerization of the transaction process reduced staff needs and transaction time. Some 22
land offices have been partially computerized under the project to handle transactions.
13.   DOL's support to other government agencies and the private sector with land related
information has substantially improved. The project has initiated an up-to-date and modem data
base on land. The cadastral maps are available to DOL's branch offices and other public agencies
for specific purposes. Title deed information is available to land owners. Efficiency has
increased under the project by expanding the use of the new technology introduced in such areas
as survey control, aerial photography and cadastral mapping. Other potential savings are likely
to result from reduction and elimination of duplication of tasks among Government agencies.
The pilot Land Information System (LIS) developed for Bangkok under LTP II, has
demonstrated opportunities to significantly reduce duplication between various governrnent
agencies in the production of base and land use maps, road building and waterway information.
14.   With the development of a LIS Policy and two pilot projects, DOL was able to improve
data quality by comparing legal and property rights information held about a parcel and the
graphical survey type information. If implemented at full scale, this will help integrate survey
and registration processes and provide a better service to clients.
15.   Achievement of Institutional Development Targets. Overall, physical targets in land
administration, branch office development, and training were achieved, while human resource
development targets were not fully achieved. As part of DOL's institutional development the
project supported education and training programs for DOL staff. This has helped to develop
public and private sector skills in surveying, mapping, land registration and management and
valuation. During LTP II, formal academic courses in various fields were provided to a total of
76 staff in DOL. However, due to lack of sufficient financial incentives and career development,
DOL has been unable to retain all of the scholars and fellows trained. But in a broader
perspective, this has helped to develop a private sector surveying and valuation capability.
Increasing Tax Revenuesfrom Land
16.   The fiscal impact of LTP II has been very significant (see Table 9B). Land titling has
emerged as one of the most cost-effective means of increasing government revenues without
raising the unit rates of land taxation and transfer fee. The increased revenues are mainly
attributed to: (a) a more active land market resulting from the title deeds issued; (b) an improved
land administration system; and (c) more accurate and market-oriented valuations provided by
CVA for the quadrennial production of district land office tax rolls for property transaction taxes.
Average annual project costs of LTP II of about Baht 500 million amounted to less than 3
percent of the average annual revenue collection of Baht 22 billion.
Other Impacts
17.   Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies. The project design did not specifically address
issues of macro and sectoral policy.



-5-
18.   Private Sector Development. While this has not been one of its specific objectives, the
project has contributed to private sector development. Project support to the implementation of
survey engineering degree courses at Chulalongkorn University helped to develop core skills in
this discipline that were previously lacking in Thailand. Many of these graduates ended up in the
private sector. Similarly, project support to valuation scholarships for degree courses in
Australia and diploma courses in Thailand at the Bangkok Institute of Technology helped to
establish the core of the developing valuation profession in Thailand. The project also laid down
the first steps for the establishment of a domestic degree course in valuation, which will be
implemented under LTP III as a joint venture between Thammasat University and an Australian
university. This is regarded as a key initiative for the development of both public and private
valuation skills.
19.   Gender Issues. Approximately 12 percent of all rural landholders are women who are
expected to obtain a secure title through the project process. Since the proportion of female
landholders in urban areas is over 20 percent, the impact on women from the urban component
was even more significant. The expansion of DOL's staff in the project context generated
important employment opportunities: at present, about 40 percent of all DOL staff are women
and 15 percent of the middle-level management positions are held by women. Women also make
up a significant percentage of the field adjudication teams.
20.   Environmental Objectives. There was no specific provision under the project to protect
forest and watershed lands in the project areas apart from excluding them from land titling. The
socio-economic studies did not identify any negative project impact but indicated that there was
less tendency for land owners with title deeds to encroach into the forest. Specific surveying of
forests and watershed areas is envisaged under LTP III.
21.   Economic Analysis. No conventional economic rate of return analysis has been
undertaken. However, project benefits have been derived from the various "outputs" of the
project (e.g. land titles, aerial photomaps, cadastral maps), the improved systems of land
valuation and land information which can be derived from them, and efficient and timely land
registration and administration services to the public.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
Project Organization and Management
22.   Project Organization. The project followed the same design as LTP I by strengthening
existing DOL structures to implement the project, and with a Land Titling Project Office (LTPO)
as an informal office for planning and monitoring of project implementation. While this
arrangement helped to provide focus on the project, LTPO's temporary status was a disincentive
to staff. Frequent staff turnovers affected LTPO's performance, especially at Project Manager
level. In addition, the relatively junior grade of previous Project Managers hampered their
relations with division directors. This issue was recently resolved with the promotion of the
incumbent Project Manager, who is an experienced land officer, at civil service level 8 (level of
division directors).



-6-
23.   Project Management and Planning. While project management has been satisfactory
overall, there is scope for improvement at both the Department and project level. Project
management was complicated by the start up of the so-called 'four year project', a parallel, fully
Government funded land titling project, which aimed at accelerating the issuance of titles in
provinces originally scheduled for phase four of the national program. This project competed for
resources and services of implementing divisions and caused a certain level of confusion among
DOL staff since, at times, DOL's priorities in terms of resource allocation were uncertain.
Unequal funding levels (LTP II activities typically received more funds) led to inconsistency in
the adjudication and titling process and impinged on the effective use of human and physical
resources. This experience provided a lesson which was incorporated under LTP III: DOL top
management decided to maintain a common and consistent approach to land titling and
administration, and to ensure that these activities are consolidated under a single program with
the same management, irrespective of the source of financing.
24.   Management and planning at the project level will need to be strengthened to overcome
difficulties which have been experienced in coordinating and implementing LTP II activities.
New planning and coordination techniques were introduced in LTP II to help overcome the lack
of coordination between technical divisions in activities leading to title adjudication. As an
example of the poor coordination (and the result of provincial pressure), systematic land
adjudication commenced in at least two large provinces where no photomapping was available.
At the same time, no adjudication was undertaken in another large province where photomaps
were available. To address the problem of inadequate coordination, a Technical Planning
Committee was formed in 1992 to provide a forum for better planning and coordination of
activities across divisional boundaries. The widely represented committee has achieved some
success, but improvement is still required in inter- and intra-divisional communication. The
DOL tradition of vertical reporting still prevails. The use of a Project Implementation Plan (PIP),
supported by computerized project management systems was introduced under the Project but is
not yet fully operational. The benefit to project management and planning from PIP was clearly
demonstrated under the project but the PIP has to be integrated into existing DOL management
procedures, such as the annual Action Plan, and become a major tool in the reporting of project
progress to the Project Executive and Administrative Committees before the PIP can be regarded
as fully adopted. Monitoring and reporting by the LTPO management with timely and key
information needed for decision-making could also be improved by using the PIP.
Project Implementation
25.   Implementation Period. The project supported a time slice of the national land titling
program and successfully adjusted its implementation period to the pace of the program. This
resulted in a very short implementation period of about three and a half years from loan
effectiveness to scheduled project completion in September 1994, at which time the project was
substantially complete as measured by the status of project investments and physical targets. The
two extensions of the project completion date, totaling one year, became necessary only because
the construction of a new DOL building was delayed by the bankruptcy of the contractor and the
need to select a new contractor. However, these delays did not affect the implementation of the
overall national land titling program.



-7-
26.   Budget Allocation. Government allocation of budgetary funds has been adequate and
demonstrated Government commitment to the project. For example, in fiscal year 1993, the
Government made additional budgetary resources available to compensate for increased project
costs which resulted from a general surge of prices and salaries in the country.
27.   Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement by DOL has been relatively trouble-free,
except for bidding of the aerial photography contract in 1992 which was delayed due to lack of
agreement on the selection of the successful bidder. While the issue was finally resolved, no
flying was carried out that year due to the delay. The resulting shortage of photomaps in the
following years affected project implementation. Disbursement of loan funds was ahead of the
appraisal schedule, until September 1995 when delays were experienced in completing the
survey and mapping building.
28.   Covenants. Covenants have been complied with in a timely manner, and were
appropriately designed during project preparation.
29.   Reports and Audits. Regular progress reporting by LTPO to the Bank has been
inadequate. This has been a recurrent problem under the project and is being addressed as a
priority by DOL under LTP III. On the other hand, audit reports were generally completed on
time.
Implementation of Project Components
30.   Land Titling and Mapping component. Overall implementation of this component
was excellent. Nonetheless, problems were encountered which required a downward adjustment
of land title targets and an increased use of ground surveys resulting in cost increases.
31.   The original appraisal target of 3 million land titles had to be revised to 2.09 million
because the initial estimate was too high as estimators (population, household, parcel size)
became better known and parcels could not be readily adjudicated for various reasons: (a) parcels
were located in fringe forest areas where the forest classification status is unclear; (b) parcels
were held by families where the owner is deceased and the inheritance not resolved; (c) absentee
owners lived away from the area or were not traceable; (d) evidence or proof of land rights were
insufficient, and (e) parcels scattered were in isolated areas. Where the parcel was mortgaged, it
often proved difficult to distribute the title deeds because the financial institution would not
release the old land document (usually an NS3K).
32.   The lesson has been reflected in the design of the follow-up LTP III project through
more realistic target estimates, new procedures, and closer institutional collaboration. Titling
targets are now being set at 80 percent of the estimated number of parcels identified under the
project. In 1993, a new procedure was adopted to deal with deceased owners which was
successfully used during the field season in 1994. In 1994, DOL agreed with the Royal Forestry
Department (RFD) and the Land Development Department (LDD) to jointly survey forest
boundaries in FY 1995 with resources from LTP III and to complete pending title issuance
through sporadic adjudication. Also in 1994 DOL increased pre-adjudication publicity by mass
media to address the issues of absentee landlords and mortgaged parcels.



-8-
33.   However, more effort is needed to resolve the issue of the non-titled parcels, and to
comply with the policy on this issue established by DOL in 1993. Under this policy, titling
activities are considered to be complete in a province when: (a) title deeds have been issued to all
legitimate parcel owners with appropriate documentation; (b) the remaining eligible parcels have
been identified; and (c) clear policy directions and an implementation plan have been prepared
for these parcels. Such an inventory and plan for the completed nine LTP II provinces had yet to
be undertaken at the time of project completion.
34.   The distribution of completed title deeds to beneficiaries has improved under LTP II
compared to LTP I. At the end of the field season in 1994, some 85 percent of completed title
deeds had been issued. A major reason for this improvement is a policy change by DOL
incorporating the timely establishment and operation of new branch land offices in the project
timeframe. Thus, resources (staff for distribution, budgets, storage space, and transport) are
available when the new title deeds are delivered from the systematic adjudication teams. DOL
estimated that by loan closing all title deeds produced under LTP II would have been delivered.
35.   Several unforeseen problems forced DOL to shift to a greater use of ground survey
methods which resulted in higher unit costs, higher demand for staff and slower output. Problems
included (a) the lack of timely aerial photography in certain provinces; (b) limited availability,
at the start of the field adjudication season, of new maps of existing land use certificates
(NS3Ks); these maps were to be produced by a computerized method, and (c) poor quality of the
original NS3K photomaps made in the early 1 970s, which did not reflect all the changes due to
new infrastructure. Furthermore, expectations about the performance of computerized map
transformation were overly optimistic and coordination between divisions not effective. As a
result more NS3K land use certificates had to be converted by field methods, with higher unit
costs and longer production times.
36.   Land Administration and Institutional Development Component. Institutional
development activities including: (a) capacity improvement; (b) human resource management;
and (c) human resource development faced external and internal constraints. The major external
constraints were the hiring freeze for the civil service (in force since the beginning of the project)
and the shortage of skilled labor. Internal DOL constraints included a lack of attractive career
paths and redeployment policies and a slow response to institutional change initiatives.
37.   The hiring freeze limited DOL's three-year manpower plan to barely sustain the status
quo instead of being an instrument to bring about the necessary expansion ot the institution.
Human resource management also suffered from lack of a redeployment program for DOL staff
and for returning scholarship holders. As a result, DOL experiences an internal brain drain from
these important new fields to more career attractive traditional land administration jobs. Much
progress has been made in human resource development under the project. The Training
Division has been strengthened with the provision of additional physical and budgetary
resources. But curriculum development is still weak and training courses need to become more
responsive to DOL's' specific needs. The proposed establishment of the domestic degree course
in valuation, which was prepared under LTP II and is being implemented under LTP III, is a
major achievement of the human resource development program.



-9-
38.   Only minor gains were made in institutional change which was supported under the
Project with an Organization, Management and Operations Study. The numerous committees
appointed to review land administration issues had little authority to propose or implement
changes. Although a full-time Land Administration Development Team (LADT), headed by an
adviser, was eventually appointed, progress in addressing issues was slow; but its work should be
continued since it still represents the best mechanism to facilitate change. Its status as an
independent unit reporting directly to the Director General should be preserved.
39.   Land Valuation and CVA Development Component. Implementation of this
component was successful in terms of increased fiscal revenues and improvements in valuation
services. However, institutional development of the CVA faced similar externlal and internal
constraints as described for DOL. namely a hiring freeze, shortage of skilled labor, lack of career
paths and a human resource training program whose full implementation has been initiated under
LTP III.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40.   Several factors have contributed to a high level of sustainability. [irat, this project (and
the preceding LTP I) have helped DOL to establish a physical infrastructure and the necessary
technical and human capacity to enable DOL to sustain an effective national land administration
and valuation function at the current level. DOL's operational capacity to deliver these services
effectively has been demonstrated in the provinces completed under LTP I and LTP II. Second,
Government's strong commitment to the project has been demonstrated by the provision of
adequate budgetary resources for DOL's operations. This commitment is expected to remain
strong as DOL and CVA continue generating net fiscal income. Third, continued technical
assistance from AusAID under LTP III will support DOL to build the technical and human
capacities which will be required to fully implement the program nationwide. Amidst all these
supportive factors, the difficulty to find, hire, and retain qualified staff remains a significant
concern. Overcoming this difficulty will be critical to ensure continued sustainability of the land
administration and valuation function and will require the full attention of the Government.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
41.   Bank processing of project preparation and appraisal was timely and without problems.
While supervision inputs have been lower than the average for Bank projects, supervision was
facilitated by the experience with the earlier successful LTP I and its overlap with preparation
and implementation of LTP III. Bank processing of procurement and disbursement matters was
adequate. .
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.   The Royal Thai Government and the project implementing agencies provided their full
support to the project. There were no major issues of borrower or implementing agency
performance during project implementation.



-10-
G. COFINANCIER'S PERFORMANCE
43.   Technical assistance cofinanced by AusAID was provided efficiently by a consulting firm
and involved not less than 15 advisers in Thailand in the course of project implementation.
Advisers included both short-term and long-term consultants whose overall performance was
highly satisfactory. The technical assistance and training provided by AusAID played a critical
role in the successful implementation of the project. The Australian advisers were successful in
supporting project administration, introducing new technology and providing on-the-job training
to their national counterparts. A lesson from both LTP I and II was the importance of structured
follow-up by DOL (with support as necessary from continuing or subsequent advisers) on the
reports and recommendations of individual advisers following the completion of their in-country
assignment.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   The outcome was highly satisfactory, and is expected to be sustainable.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.   The follow-up LTP III will pursue and complete various initiatives which were designed
and started under LTP II. This is particularly true for the institutional and human resource
development components which typically require a longer time frame stretching beyond the time
horizon of a single project. The actions required to fully develop DOL's capacity to complete the
final two phases of the National Land Titling Program are presented in the operational plan
(Table 6B).
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.   The main lessons learned are:
(a)    Systematic land adjudication rermains the most effective approach to accelerated
land titling under Thai conditions;
(b)   Targets for land titling under the systematic land adjudication approach must
consider constraints such as unclear boundaries with forestry, land reform areas,
and lack of clear ownership evidence. A titling rate of 80 percent of parcels
identified by the adjudication teams appears to be a realistic target; and
(c)    Sustainable institutional changes require a long-term framework and sustained
efforts, often beyond the time horizon of one project.
47.   Factors essential to project success, as evidenced by LTP II, include: strong management,
particularly in planning and implementation of systematic adjudication and land titling;
continuous TA by a resident team of advisors; and flexibility in project implementation, as was
demonstrated by the readiness to shift resources toward more ground surveys to achieve appraisal
titling targets.



-11-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING II PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B: Title Deeds Production By Provinces
Table 5C: Technical Assistance
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 6B: Operational Plan
Table 7:  Studies
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 8C: Project Financing by Expenditures
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9B: Tax Receipts of Department of Lands
Table 9C: Beneficiaries
Table 9D: Cost of Production of Title Deed Under Land Titling Projects
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



-12-
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial        Partial        Negli,ible       Not Applicable
(^/)            (t/)             (V)                (V)        I
Macro Policies                      O               O                                   [ J
Sector Policies                     O               O                 O                  l
Financial Objectives               LJ               El                0                 0
Institutional Development           O                                 E 0               El
Physical Objectives                E[               O                 O                 O
Poverty Reduction                   Ell 0                             0                 0
Gender Issues                       lx              El                O                 E
Other Social Objectives                             El O              Ol
Environmental Objectives            E               E                 E                 El
Public Sector Management          E3                0                 0                 0
Private Sector Development          El              O                 0                 [l
Other (specify)                     El              E                 El                E
B. Project Sustainabilitv            Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(~/)                      (/)                        (/)
Highly
C .         Bank Performance         Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Deficient
(V)                      (V)                        (V)
Identification                     (El                       0                          0
Preparation Assistance             m3                        0                          0
Appraisal                          El                        0                          E
Supervision                        El                        El                         El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory          Satisfactor                  Deficient
(V)                      (V)                      (V)
Preparation                        El                        0                       0
Implementation                     El                                                0
Covenant Compliance                [El 0                                             0
Operation (if applicable)                                    El 0                    0
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactor    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
L/)             El)               El)               El)



-13-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title             Purpose              Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
1. Structural Adjustment I   To assist Government in  March 1982           Closed (March 3, 1983) PCR
macro-economic and trade                         No. 6805 dated December
policy changes, including                        12, 1984.
the issuance of usufruct
certificates by Royal
Forest Department
2. Structural Adjustment If  Same as above            March 1983           Closed (Jan 31, 1984) PCR
(Ln. 2198-TH)                                                            No. 6805 dated December
12, 1984.
3. Land Reform Areas      To assist ALRO in the       September 1982       Closed (September 19, 1989)
Pro ject (Ln. 2198-TH)   delivery of usufruct                           I'CR dated November 6,
licenses in degazetted                           1989.
forest reserves
4. Land Titling I Project  Land registration, titling  June 1984           Closed (March 31, 1992)
(Ln. 2440-TH)           and administration                               PCR No. 11896 (May 21,
1993)
Folloiving operations
1. Land Titling III Project   Same as above          September 1994       tIJnder Implementation (SAR
(Li. 3797-TH)                                                            No. 12866-TH, August
1994)



-14-
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle        ]       Date Planned      |      Date Actual
Identification                               n.a.                   May/June 1989
Preparation                                  n.a.                   Sep 4-9, 1989
Initial Executive Project Summary            n.a.                   Oct 1989
Pre-appraisal                                n.a.                   Nov 6-22, 1990
Appraisal                                    n.a.                   Feb 23-Mar 13, 1990
Negotiations                                 June 18-20, 1990       June 18-20, 1990
Board presentation                                                  Sep 4. 1990
Signing                                                             Oct 12, 1990
Effectiveness                                                       Feb 7, 1991
Project completion                           Sep 30. 1994           Sep 30, 1996
Loan closing                                 Sep 30. 1995           Sep 30, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(USS millions)
FY91     FY92   FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate       2.4       7.5     15.0      24.0      3(0.(    30.0   30.0
Actual                   0.1       8.6     19.4      26.2     27.7      28.9   29.4
Actual as % of Estimate    4     115      129       109       92        96      98
Date of Final Disbursement: December 9. 1996



-15-
TABLE SA: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I 'sti mated
Unit             Appraised                Rcvised        Actual (9/94)
I Photo Mapping
Aerial lihotor_rapily                                            sq km
Rural Area                                                                            132.000                147,)0(1             183.284
Urban Area                                                                               1,500                  1.93(0              1.931 
P'hotomap Ilroduction
Rtiral Area                                                    mapsheets               24,000                 1 6,000)             17,277
Ulrballn Alca                                                                           4.000                  5.60(0               6,646
2 [tran.s ormation of Old Titles
Bfangkok                                                         parcels                                     X00 1,000)           941,718
Provinces                                                                                                    3(1 .()()            330,931
Iotal                                                                              1.41)1),001)           I .I1,()()           1,272,649
Banlgkok                                                        napsheets               2.1)()(                2.147                4,226
Prov inlces                                                                             3,600                  4.676                3,204
F'otal                                                                                  560(10                6823                 7.430
3.1.and 'I itline and Administration
fitling ksucd                                                    parcels
(iround Surey                                                                                                1)12.330             892,315
Adj. by Acrial photo                                                                                         (149,4610            418,736
Sulbtotal                                                                           1.800.000              1.151,79(0           1,311,051
NS3K (onvcrsion                                                                      1,200,000               744.30)()            731.346
I'OlAI                                                                              3,00(0,00(0         2.09(f.019(0 al        2,042,397
ILand Adminiistration                                             NO.
New Surve ing & Mapping building                                                            i                                           I
Ii(raiicii 1,and otfice establishmilenit                                                   62                                          67
(onstirution New BLLO                                                                                                                   I S
U ,pans ion  land oifices                                                                  62                                          49
( onsitiLctioll store rooms                                                                 62                                         64
Stadtt l-l hsi n                                                                           18(                                        137
4.ValUatioti
1(I1 trainlilna program                                        staftfmonth                 60                                        61.3
Ovcrscas traminig                                              statf-monthi                183                                      148.5
5.( 0reanization Management and Oneration ())I)L)
AppoinunCInt of1new oft'icials
0 eCrscas traillitle:                                            position                 5(09                                       1978
Slholo-tni tlai inumm
I on-teMril traimline                                          staft-month                 197                                       44.2
staff-mllonth              156                                       153.6
D)omestic tralmttnig
nl C01i1iscs.                                                    courses                                                              177
paMrticipanits                                                     no                                                              13,0130
SoCio-eCoC  stUdN                                              staft:month                 3(0                                       43.5
I and lPol cv study                                            staff-month                 75                                        49.5
6. I cchlo ical Assistance
I.umng-tcl-l                                                   staffrmonth              231 5                                       269.7
S]oit-tt1t.t.                                                                             40.0                                        13.2
a I arueti \\cic ric ised during various super' isbimi tissions and agreed between the parties. Revisions becamic niecessary as a result of better data on
the nomhlel)CI ul pricels per provinIce.



-16-
TABLE SB: TITLE DEEDS PRODt!CTION BY PROVINCES
(round SuIvc\         Adjudication hb       NS3K Convc-sion               I'otal
Aerial l'hotomap
Pruo\ i1ccs
I airget                       | ()utpt ltTrget O|  )utput    I'arget          Output
ParcCls                Parcels               I'arcels              IParce s
A. 1 IT1 I1
Chach1oci0gsao          2880(        763       5760)      690)3       1440()      066      23040       1(0732
Chainit                32220)    30679        21120)    20299         16200     16144      69540)    67122
ChaIntliauri           8640))      65061           -          -           -         -      8640(      65061
(honhu,1l.til-i        5(a(6)16)    60072     27840)    25593         14400      7479      9840)0)    89144
Kalasin                2637))      )348            -          -           -         -      2637(0     29348
Larnpang               9)80))     02742       5760))     65577       96000    1(09975    2454(0))    278294
Mahasaraldiam          72000)    80341             -          -           -         -      720)0      80341
MuLkdkalilll           2 15 1       6 16935    7440)      7562        16200     13788      45 150     38285
Nakhonsawan                 -          -      3222()     25851       6930))    71818      101520)    97669
Nanl                   4788))      49-193     23040      26825       28800    31165        9972(0    1(07483
Pf-uciiIFIT-Mri        22))()       1 174     25320)    21855        4950)0    27934       97720      71)963
P'hrac                 53280)    54492        18240)    18326        24000    2540)7       9552!)     98225
Raklopn                191 '()     I8 3X648))            37160)      43200    290(28       988()()    84369
Roict                  864))))    98468            -          -           -         -      86400      98468
Irat                  432)0)     2 )             -           -           -         -      432))))    2580)1
UbIhon Ratchathani    1 1394))    I8I505      71520      552(05     1(0950(0   121838    294960)   295548
tUflithani             1440)))      5826       768))      4347        4800       3743      26980       13916
'ilasothon             46())      -1331)5     1728)0    12946        4320((    536)6       1)6560)   10)9857
Chiang Rai              288)        "235       384()      3372            -         -       672(0      56(07
Subtotal      83942))    82 1421    35538))    331821        529500   512991    172430)0)  1666233
Larmphun                252))       2742       21)0)      2396        2100       211)       6720)      7249
I'havao                 252))       . 19       5040)      7110        84(10     1(1251     15960)    20)480
Sisakct                2970)))     34i16      29280)    2170)8       79800)   830)66      13878()    139590)
Mac I long Son          5)40)      41120)      558))      3844         15()0      656      1212))      8620)
Stirini                23 13))    2(6)97      520)8)0    5 ) 857    123000    122271    198210)   20)1)225
Subtotal       629!)      7))894     94()8)1    86915      2148(1)   218355      371790)   376164
Total (A-I3)          90)2330)   892315    44946))    418736        74431)1)   731346   2)1961190)  2042397
I/ 'I'itles isstecd undcr LTP I provinlces USi1mi iL' ll h1 budgets whiich were included as achievements uin(eIr 1 ITI P Ilroject.



-17-
TABLE 5C: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Adviser Position                MOU Estimate         Actual
(Staff-Months)    (Staff-Months)
Long Term
Technical Assistance Manager                      44.5                44.5
Management Information System Adviser              18.0                15.5
Training Coordinator                               12.0                18.0
Computing Adviser                                 42.0                48.0
Land Administration/Cadastral Surveying Adviser   42.0
Land Administration Adviser                                           45.0
Land Information Systems Adviser                  24.0                 24.0
Valuation Adviser                                 42.0                 48.5
BIT Valuation Adviser                              7.0                  7.0
OMO Adviser                                                            19.2
Short Term
Project Administration Valuation
Photomapping                                                            5.0
Socio-Economic Analysis                                                 1.25
Training
Valuation Training Adviser                                              2.0
Records Management Technology Adviser                                  0.83
Sociologist                                                            2.0
Technical Assistance Director                                          2.16
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
1.   Key operating indicators in SAR/President's Report  Estimated  Actual
I                                                              11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1. Adjudication parties                                           30
2. Branch land offices                                  62         67
3. LIS center                                            l
4. CVA                                                    1
II.  Modified indicators (if applicable)                    n.a.      n.a.
III. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)  n.a.   n.a.



-18-
TABLE 6B: OPERATIONAL PLAN
TOPIC                   lULL DEVELOPMENT                          ACTIONS REQUIRED
OBJECTIVE                                  BY DOL
Accelerated issue of land titles   All privately owned land parcels  Complete the aerial photography programme
issued with a certificate of title
Complete the definition, demarcation and delineation
of forest boundaries
Complete the transformation of title deeds (NS4)
Complete the land adjudication programme.
Improved Service Delivery    Efficient and effective land related  Review and improved land records management
services to Government and the
public                            Implement land register automation in all land
offices
Review, update, and consolidate all land related
legislation and regulationl
Review and improve land office practices.
Institutional Strengthening of    Effective human resource      Develop and implement human resource policy
DOL                          management
Implement DOL staff career development policy
Introduce staff redeployment
Finalize and implement recruitment and staff
development policies
Integrated and comprehensive      Implement the LIS programme
information systems
Consolidate the structure oflthe IS Centre
Upgrade the administrative computer system
Develop and implement the telecommunications plan
Introduce capacity planning. contingency planning,
and documentation standards.
Development of the CVA       Equitable and consistent national  Complete the construction and bring into operation 6
property taxation and comprehensive   regional valuation centres
land valuation
Substantially increase CVA staff (to 100 in PY5)
Establish a career structurc for valuers in CVA
Establish undergraduate anid postgraduate courses in
valuation in Thailand
Implement computer assisted mass appraisal
Develop and implement expropriation procedures
and systems.



-19-
TABLE 7: STUDIES
Purpose as defined
Study                      at appraisal/redefined                   Status         Impact of study
Land Policy, management and      DOL service operations and structure    Final report completcd in   Recommendations
Administration Study             study to improve key service provision   September 1995.     made for the future
(SAR p 60)                      including factors such as further                             direction of DOL in
decentralization and the role of the                         regard to:
private sector.                                                  criteria for
selecting the
sequence of
provinces within
the land titling
prqject.
reengineering
business
processes to
minimize delays
in land surveying
and registration,
and to reduce the
personal liability
of staff.
*   accepting and
implementing the
strategic plan for
human resource
management and
development.
*   working with the
Department of
Agriculture to
resolve the land
reform issues.
Socio-economic Impact Study      Follow-on sample surveys of the base-   Final report completed in  Influenced the design
(SAR p 64)                      line study conducted in 1985 and      luly 1995.              of the LTP HII
1988.
Socio-economic Impact Study.     Base-line surveys in the eastern    Final report completed in   The impact study
seaboard areas.                     September 1995           would commence in
the year 2000- the last
year of LTP 111, ready
for uses after the
impact Study finish.



-20-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
ITEM               Local      Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign      Total
costs       costs                 costs      costs
Base Cadastral Map             6.81        6.82       13.61      10.33       11.42       21.75
Grouid Survey Teams            36.10       2.03       38.13      38.43        2.64       40.07
Urban Mapping                  2.67        0.56        3.23       3.00       0.63         3.63
Land Admi-nistrationi          5.05        1.15        6.20       7.52       0.74         8.26
Iinstitutioni Building         2.13        0.36        2.49       3.53       0.25         3.78
TA & Training                  0.23        5.22        5.45       0.11        5.44        5.55
CVA                            2.96        0.93        3.89       0.49        0.15        0.64
Total Project Costs            55.95      17.0       73.00      63.41      21.27        84.68
Source: LTP and AIDAB Offices.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source          Local          Foreign       Total       Local          Foreign       Total
costs          costs                    costs           costs
IBRD                20.30            9.70         30.00      20.30            9.05         29.35
AIDAB                 0.00            5.25         5.25       0.00            5.42          5.42
RTG                 35.65            2.10         37.75      43.11            6.8          49.91
TOTAL              55.95            17.05        73.00      63.41           21.27         84.68
Comments: The increased costs of about 15% were absorbed by RTG. The actual financing
percentages are 35% by IBRD, 6.3% by AIDAB and the remaining 58.7% by RTG as against 41%,
7.5% and 5 1.5% respectively estimated at appraisal.



-21-
TABLE 8C: PROJECT FINANCING BY EXPENDITURES
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)              Actual/Estimate(US$ Million)
IBRD       AIDAB        RTG       Total     IBRD       AIDAB        RTG       Total
Civil Works             6.19                    1.10      7.29      6.42        0.00        3.01       9.43
Aerial Photography      3.05                    I.31      4.36      4.32        0.00        0.78       5.10
Vehicles, Furniture,    3.24                    1.81      5.05      8.46        0.00        6.52      14.98
Equipment
Development Costs      17.10                   33.33     50.43      9.79        0.00       39.49      49.28
TA & Training           0.00        5.25        0.20      5.45      0.00        5.42        0.11       5.53
Studies                 0.42                    0.00      0.42      0.36        0.00        0.00       0.36
Total Project Costs    30.00        5.25       37.75     73.00     29.35        5.42       49.91      84.68
TABLE 9A: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not Available
TABLE 9B: TAX RECEIPTS OF DEPARTMENT OF LANDS
FY     No. of Transactions               Amount Collected                         Index of Collections
('000)                       (Baht Million)                             (1986 = 100)
Transfer Fee  Income Tax   StamP    Total  Transfer Fee Income Tax  Stamp  Totai
Duty            I                         Duty
1984          5,976              2,117         1,461       199       3,777     109         109       97    108
1985          6,521              2,144         1,583      226        3,953     108         117       109    112
1986          6,290              2,009         1,391      213        3,613     100         100       100    100
1987          7,479              2,870         2,151      305        5,326     137         153       146    144
1988          8,926              5,775         5,115      620       11,510     273         342       188    300
1989          8,295              7,585         6,117      870       14,572     339         389       401    362
1990         11,751              13,136        9,997      1,499     24,632     558         614       601    582
1991          8,640              11,337        6,921      1,163     19,421     453         399       438    431
1992          7,146              11,260        6,515      1,456     19,231     425         355       518    403
1993          7,532              13,180        7,305      1,635     22,120     472         378       553    440
1994          7,217              15,436        9,388     2,139      26,963     522         459       683    507
L~~  I                           I          I -  -         -                      -             I-



-22-
TABLE 9C: BENEFICIARIES
Indicators                   Appraisal Estimate     Estimated at Closing Date
No. Households Received         700,000 I/                700,000 2/
Titles
DOL Permanent Staff                500                      1,978
DOL Temporary Staff                300                      1,684
I /Approximately 4.3 parcels per family.
2/ Approximately 3 parcels per family based on the results of the socio-economic study.
TABLE 9D: COSTS OF PRODUCTION OF TITLE DEED UNDER LAND TITLING PROJECTS
(Baht '000)
LTP I a/           LTP II b/         LTPIC     1 c
ICR Figures
Base Cadastral Mapping                       387,551                 729,460        551,949 e/
Ground Survey (including NS3K                 421,157              1,182,740      1,026,590 e/
Conversion)
Depreciation of Equipment                      26,964                 57,480         57,480
Total                                         835,672              1,969,680      1,636,019
Number of Title Deeds                       1,634,146 f/           3,000,000 d/   2,042,397
Cost per title deed current prices (in baht)      511                    656            801
Cost per title deed (1994 constant prices)        603                    774            801 baht
US$32
US$1 = 25.1 Baht (1994)
a/     Actual 1985-1990
b/     From SAR LTPII, Annex 4 Table 4
c/     Excluding the construction cost of the new Survey and Mapping Building
d/     The Appraisal estimate for land title deed issuance is 3,000,000 from SAR para 2.3(b))
e/     From Table 8A of this ICR
f/     This is the actual figure recalculated in 1995



-23-
TABLE 10: STATUS oF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section    Covenant Present Original   Revised         Description of      Comments
type    status fulfillment fulfillment      covenant
date      date
3.03 (a)       10       C                         DOL to issue title deeds to
private occupiers of land
promptly after survey.
3.03 (b)       10       C                         DOL to issue documents for
state land promptly after
survey.
3.04          5, 12     C     10/1/91             DOL to submit master plan
for strengthening Central
Valuation Authority to the
Bank.
3.05           9        C      2/1/94             Carry out studies in Part E
and submit findings and
recommendations to the
bank.
Covenant Types:
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency   C    covenant complied with
9 = Monitoring review and reporting                         CD = complied with after delay
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9  CP = complied with partially
12 = Sector al or cross sectoral policy/regulatory institutional action    NC = not complied with
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
NIL



-24-
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                  Planned                       Actual
project cycle                                                               l
Weeks          US$           Weeks           US$
Through appraisal           70             na             41.6          88.2
Appraisal-Board             30             na             18.7          45.0
Board-effectiveness          3             na              8.1          19.2
Supervision                 52             na             58.2         137.2
ICR                         35             na             27.0           5.0
TOTAL                     190             na            129.3         294.6



-25-
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performnaice Rating
Stage of      Month/ Number Days i Specialized staff Implementation Develop- Types o
project cycle     year      of    field  skills represented   status       ment  problem
persons                                        objectives
Through appraisal
Identificationi               3        5   A,E,A                  n.a.         n.a      n.a.
Preparation                   3        5   A,E,LA                 _                     -
mission             9/89
Pre-appraisal      11/89      4       16  A,LA,V,FA               _                     -
Appraisal           2/90      3       18  A,E,L                    I
Appraisal through
Board approval
Pre-negotiation    12/90      2        1  A,V
mission
Supervisions
I                 6/91       2       10  A,V
11               12/91       4       12  A,FA,LA,V                I           1
III               9/92       3       9   A,V,LA                   1           I
IV                8/93       4       16  A,V,LA,E                 I
V                 2/94       5       16  A,V,NRE,LA,E             I
VI (ICR)          9/94       4       35  A,E,LA,V,SE                         __ |
VIl               1/95       5       2   SE,E,LA,FA,C            HS          HS
Vill             12/95       6       2   SE,E,LA,FA,C,V          HS          HS
IX (ICR)         10/96       5       2   SE,E,C,V,LA             HS          HS   I
A           Snr Agriculturist
C           Civil Engineer
SE          Snr Economist
E           Economist
FA          Financial Analyst
L           Lawyer
LA          Land Administration and Registration Specialist
NRE         Natural Resources Economist
V           Valuation Specialist



-26-
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C: Cofinancer's Contribution to the ICR



-27-                Appendix A
Page 1 c l
THAILAND
Land Titling 11 Proiect
(IBRD Loan 3254-TH)
Imolementation Comoletion Mission
(Sept. 26 - Oct. 7, 1994)
Ai de-Memoire
l.         A World Bank mission, conducted by Messrs. Yves Wong (Task Manager,
World Bank), Frank Byamugisha (Senior Economist, World Bank), Trithep
Lohavisavapanich (Economist, FAO/CP), Lynn Holstein (Land Administration
Specialist, Consultant), and Thaddeus Jankowski (Land Valuation Specialist,
Consultant), carried out the Implementation ComnLetion Mission for the Land
Titling II Project (LTP II) at the Department of Lands (DOL) during the above-
mentioned period. Mr. Andrew Rowell, representing the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), which cofinances the
projec_, participated in the mission. The mission visited the Survey and
Mapping Building in Pakkret and land off ces in Bangkok.
2.         The mission than!-s Khun Chanasak Yuva=urna (outgoing Director
General, DOL) and Khun Prinya Nakchudtree (ir.coming Director General) and DOL
staff for the assistance received.  The cooperation of the Land Titling
Project Office (LT?O) and A_DAB advisers is also warmly acknowledged.  This
Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's findings and recommendations which were
present:ed to DOL at a wrap-up meeting chaired by Khun Prinya on Oc-ober 7,
1994.  _t reflects the mission's views only, and the Bank's comments and
confi-mation will be sent to DOL.
Prone-_ Comnleticn
3.         The mission agreed with DOL on a project Lmplementation cut-off
date of September 30, 1994.  All activities after that date will be considered
to be implemented under the Land Titling I_- Project , which was approved by
the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on September 22, 1994.  The Loan
Agreement of that project was signed on September 2-', 1994, and is expected to
become effective bv November 1994.
4.         Disbursement.  To date, about US$26.4 million (88% of loan amount)
has been disbursed.  As the remainder is expected to be fully drawn down by
the scheduled loan closing date of September 30, 1995, no extension of that
date is envisaged.
5.         Socio-Economic Imoact Studies.  The contract for baseline studies
in the Eastern Seaboard has yet to be signed. Kasetsart University, the
contractor, confirmed that it would start the study in March 1995 when
students will become available and that the study will be completed and final
reports submitted by early September to enable disbursements to be completed
by September 30, 1995, if the contract is financed by direct payment.



-28-                Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
Prooress and Audit Reoorts
6.        Progress has been made in the mreoaration and submission of
progress reports by LTPO, but these still need to be improved under LTP III.
The Project implementation Plan (PIP) is not yet fully implemented, and LTPO
should concentrate its efforts on the use of the PIP. The mission recommends
that A-DAB advisers should provide further technical assistance to LTPO, if
needed, to promote the intensive use of PIP.
7.        The audit report for the fiscal year 1992/93 has not yet been
submitted to the Bank. DOL confirms that the report is being completed and
that it would be submitted to the Bank by November 1994. The audit report for
the fiscal year 1993/94 will be submitted in early 1995.
Implementation Comoletion Reoort
8.        The mission discussed a draft Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) and its Operational Plan with DOL. It was agreed with DOL that it would
send its comments on the ICR, together with the final version of the
Operational Plan, by January 1995. Although the loan closing date is still
about a year away, it was agreed to finalize the ICR after the Bank has
received the Government's aid DOL's comments.
Missio-'s Findinas and Recommendations.
9.        The main findings are:
(a) physical targets for cadastral surveying and mapping and title deed
issuance have been substantially achieved;
(b)  institutional development has made slower progress and requires a
longer timeframe together with sustained efforts;
(0) Government commitment is essential for successful project
implementation (additional budgetary funds were provided in a
timely manner to address increased costs of about 15%);
(d)  flexibility in making greater use of ground survey methods,
although more costly, to address inadequacies in computerized map
transformation helped to achieve project targets;
(e) the technical assistance performed efficiently, although more
systematic follow-up of DOL actions to adviser recommendations
could have been useful;
(f)  the main problems during project implementation were:
(i)    procurement delays in aerial photography affected the land
titling process;
(ii)   lack of clear Department priorities in land titling
activities resulted in the implementation of parallel
activities to the project, with the risk of competing



-29-                 Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
demands for scarce management resources and establishment of
uneven land administration systems; and
(iii) weak project planning at inter-divisional level affected
implementation of land titling activities; computerized
project implementation planning by LTPO is not yet fully
operational; and
(iv)   delays and uncertainty in the full implementation of the
Land Administration Development Team.
10. The main recommendations are:
(a) planning and management at the Department and project levels have
to be strengthened;
(b) Department priorities on land titling have to be clarified-and
actions taken to ensure that a uniform system of land
administration is established for the whole country;
(c)  LTPO should use the computerized Project Implementation Plan as the
basic tool for planning and monitoring of project activities and
involve other divi.sions in these activities;       0
(d) the Technical Planning Committee should play, together with LTPO, a
more pro-active role in project planning and monitoring;
(e)  DOL should continue to seek technology improvement in its
operations (surveying, survey control, pa-cel adjudication) with
the technical support of A1DAB technical assistance in a structured
manner;
(f) A_DAB and DOL should consider implementation of systematic follow-
up reviews of the main recomendations of the advisers;
(g) DOL should continue to Implement its 1993 pclicy on adjudication of
parcels left over during the systematic adjudication process;
(h)  DOL should actively pursue its policy of seeking productivity
improvements, such as in parcel adjudication and in computerization
of land offices;
(i)  The continuance of the Land Administration Development Team must be
guaranteed as the best mechanism to facilitate change; and
(j) CVA should re-institute the information svstem planning team and
use modern project planning tools (PIP) to assist management. -
Suvervision LTP III
11.       The first supervision mission of this project is presently
scheduled for the second half of January 1995.
October 7, 1994



-30-                 Appendix B
Page 1 of 4
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
1.    Comments on Part I
1.1   The descriptive and critical analysis of the Land Tiding Project in Part I of this report
illustrates clearly some important aspects concerning institutional development,
organizational and managerial capacities and also some inherent constraints that DOL had
faced in implementing the LTP II during 1991-1994. The analysis which has been
prepared by the World Bank project completion mission and is based on the accumulative
experiences during the course of the project addresses some fundamental problems that
need to be recognized and resolved if the Land Titling Project is to be carried out at the
maximum efficiency and generate the best benefits to the country. As the implementing
agency, we would like to express our view as follows.
1.2   The Bank and DOL agreed that the project would follow the same design as for LTP I.
This has been very effective in achieving project targets as can be seen from the fact that
the annual production of title deed of LTP II was almost double the annual output of
LTP I.
Land policy issues involving the roles and responsibilities of key collaborative agencies
namely DOL, RFD, and LDD were underestimated. This, in coasequence had some
impact on the achievement of LTP's targets. For example, there are some innocent
owners who own parcels in fringe forest area where the forest classification status is
unclear and who have not been issued title deeds.
Recently, DOL has attempted to solve this problem by creating a Joint Committee
between DOL, RFD and LDD to stimulate cooperative efforts between these agencies in
FY 1995. The Governments land reform policy being implemented by ALRO is also
having an impact on the project.
1.3   With regard to proiect organization, it is agreed that the informal status of the Land
Titling Project Office which is responsible for planning and monitoring of project
implementation, affected LTPO's performrance. The lack of experience and skills of staff
together with lack of staff commitment to the project led to poor project management.
This weakness of LTPO needs to be strengthened if the project management is to be
carried out at the maximum efficiency.
1.4   Part I also mentioned the lack of policy guidelines on several issues such as development
and deployment of trained staff and coherence in provincial and branch land office
practice. In reply. DOL accepts these as fair comments and they should be resolved on
a rational basis.
1.5   The Bank and DOL agreed that project completion date was September 1994. The Bank
also notes that at this date about 80% of eligible parcels have tides. Experience in LTP
shows there are valid legal and practical reasons why it is simply not feasible to issue title
to every eligible land parcel during the systematic adjudication process. DOL agreed on
the application of the 1993 DOL policy on this issue and adopted a realistic approach to



-31-                 Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
define that titding activities are considered to be completed in a province when title deeds
have been issued to all eligible parcels with appropriate documentation and the remaining
legitimate parcels that have not been issued with title deeds have been identified, and
policy directions and a time-bound implementation plan toward these parcels clearly
determined. Agreement by the Bank to this definition will ensure a comnmon
understanding and will assist in project formulation and planning for the future phases of
LTP.
2     Bank Performance
2.1   In general, the Bank has discharged its duties and responsibilities prescribed in the project
design document satisfactorily both during the stages of project design and
implementation. It should be noted that the Bank has not only been very enthusiastic and
cooperative in delivering, technical services to the project but also, as in the project
Phase I,emphatically sensitive to norms and cultures of the country which is one of the
key factors that are an important contribution to smooth implementation as well as success
of the project.
2.2   As the co-financing partner of LTP, the Bank and AIDAB of the Australian Government
continually -ut their best collaborative efforts to realize the achievement of the project
at all irnporrant stages. AIDAB has provided an excellent technical assistance program as
needed bv LTP, covering provision of technical experts in certain areas, scholarships for
DOL staff to studv in Australian higher educational institution, and organizing short term
traiaing courses and study tours in Australian organizations for the project's operational
staff and executives respectively. It has been widely acknowledged that AIDAB
contribution to the project during the project Phase II supported the process and
foundation of institutional innovation and change in DOL. However, evaluation on expert
performance is needed to ensure maximum benefit from contribution of AIDAB to
Thailand.
3     Borrower Performance
3.1    As described in Part I, DOL substantially achieved its major objectives of providing
secure land tenure as a basis for poverty reduction for the less privileged rural population;
and a more efficient land administration service to the public through decentralization of
land administration and a more effective national property valuation function. The project
has also helped develop DOL institutional development to ensure sustainability for
effective national land administration and valuation functions.
3.2   It is noted that progress on technological and technical developments of the project have
been highly satisfactory and sustainable. On the other hand, progress on institutional
development including service delivery, enactment of CVA laws, organizational
development and changes in managerial and operational practice have been rather slow
and less effective. DOL has acknowledged that it needs policy guideline to address these
issues. However, this institutional consataint is not due to the uniqueness for DOL itself
but inherent within the Thai bureaucratic settings as a whole.



-32-                 Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
3.3   The achievement of physical targets was highly successful and work productivity
increased significantly. One reason for this is because the Government has a strong
commitment for the project as there was a provision of additional funds to cover the
incremental cost due to the increase in staff salaries and unit cost throughout the county.
However, there were some problems in areas of survey and mapping and systematic field
adjudication due to delay in letting the aerial photography contract m 1992.
3.4   At the final stage of the project, DOL began to apply computerized project management
(CPM) tools for program improvements in the areas of technical, administrative, and
service delivery systems.
3.5   AS indicated in PART I of the report, project management and planning has been
satisfactory. However, there is still a need for policy implementation on DOL priorities
in the land title program for LTP mI even though DOL has agreed to have a single
national land title program.
3.6   With  regard to institutional development areas which include reorganization,
administrative development, human resource management, training and development and
so on, there is some indication that change management has been made but in a
bureaucratic manner. Specifically, as in LTP I, DOL was still unable to retain all the
trained personnel and to deploy them more effectively. This human resource management
constraint was due to the lack of clear policy direction of DOL. However, at the final
stage of the project, DOL has been starting to seriously commit to the issue of
institutional change and development in the future so that it helps sustain effective
national land administration and valuation functions. Evidence of improvements in some
areas can be seen as there is a strategic plan on human resource development, progressing
development of institutional capacitv for Cent-al Valuation Authority; establishment of
Information Centre; and introduction of computerized project management system.
3.7   As a key operational unit the Land Titling Project Office (LTPO) faced several problems
in implementing the project. First, the status of the project office was still an informal
division which does not have legal status and sectional heads are junior staff and there
is a general lack of skills and commitment. These matters need to be addressed and LTPO
needs to be strengthened to overcome difficulties in coordination, management and to
cope with the size and complexity of the project.
4     Lesson Learned
4.1    A)    Due to size and complexity of the land titling process, the project required close
coordination between many external agencies and DOL internal agencies required
close supervision, management and coordination. Some inter-agency issues have
become absolute impediments to achieve the fundamental objective of the project
which is the issue of title deed.



-33-                  Appendix B.
Page 4 of 4
B)    Institutional changes require a clear policy implementation for human resource
development and management in order to help sustain effective national land
administration and valuation functions.
C)   Project management, planning and monitoring and evaluation need to be
strengthened specifically within LTPO.
D)   Although the project has received strong support from the government by
providing additional funds to cover the incremental cost, the project requires more
flexibility in the budgetary sy. _m and institutional structure in order to respond
to the needs of project management and close inter-division coordination
respectively.
E)    DOL needs to ensure that public access to land administration service policy
(decentralization policy) is in accordance with technology innovation policy.
F)    As there is an Act for DOL privatization, there should be a clear policy
implementation to support this policy in order that private sector shall have more
activities.



-34,                Appendix C
Page 1 of 2
Thailad Land Tiding Project, Phase U
Cooperating agency report
Oblerview
Av&ALD conuiders that the Second Land Titling Project has boen successul in
achieving its objectives, a ovidencod by the &et that the projoct has lagely mat or
exceeded its targetu. A major fiactor in this success has beea the patnership betwen
the RTG, the World Bank and AusAID. The participation of a skilled and dedicated
consultant, BHP Engineering, was also very important to the success of the project.
The RT(; commitment to the project, at all political and institutional levels, has always
been strong. The socio-econonic importance of the project is documented in the 6th
and 7th National Social and Economic Development Plans. The Implemeing Agency,
the Department of Lands (DOL), demonstrated a very strong commitment to the
project, particuiarly by the Directors General and DOL senior executives. This
commitment is cvideat in the fact that DOL provided the large number of staff
necessary to support project activities in an environment of increasing demand for
DOL services and increasing impact from the RTO policy of zero growth in civil
servants.
The regular World Bank Supervision Missions played a crucial role in the regular
auditing of project implementation. AusATD relied on these mimions to high-light the
need for any changes in technical assance inputs.
At tiAe end of the first Land Titling Project, AusAID decided to directly negotiate a
contract for the technical assistnce program for the Second Land Titling Project with
the Consultant that managed the technical assistance for thc first project. This decision
ensured that there was a quick mobifisation of technical  e  for the Project and
ensured that the technical assistance built on the extensive knowledge and relationships
established during first projecL
The design of the Project was wound and built on the lessons learnt during the
impladmntation of the first project. LI particular, the Loan Covenant for the project
included commitments to implement change. The design for the technical amsistance for-
the project also built on stron& well established technical systems that were supported
in the first project. Technical assistance in the Second Land Titling Project emphasised
support for broad, institution-wide issues such as HRD, IT, land records management
and improved service delivery.
L.VtoM I*Amd
The following major lessons flow from AMsAID's experience on the Second Land
Titling Project:



-35-                 Appendix C
Page 2 of 2
1. The Land Titling Project will have a significant impact on the DepaTtment of Lands.
To minimisc any adverse impact, change will be necessary. This change process will
be evolutionary and will require the full support of senior and executive
management to be successfuil.
2. As the Land Titling progrm becomes institutionalised, DOL needs establish better
mcchaniams to coordinate the resources necessary to support the project itsalf and
the process of change. This wiU also require the full support from senior and
executive DOL management.
3. Project Management tools such as the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will only
be successful where iherc is a recognition by DOL of the importance of better
planning. Sernior levels of DOL must be commaitted to planning, ensuing that
adequate resources are allocated and there are appropriate reward systems for the
staff supporting the planning fiuction.
4. Close attention is required in the coordination of activities that cut across divisional
boundaries. Land administration and policy development are not the domain of any
one division in DOL, leading to the necessity to establish the Land Administration
Development Team to provide cross-divisional analysis and linkages to provide a
vehicle for change.
5. To support the evolution in the project environment, it is important that the
emphasis for technical assistance inputs shift from analysis and recommendations for
change to oversighting and guiding the change process. Advisers' final reports are
now less important than the impact that the advisers have on their area of
responsibility in DOL. Change will occur more readily while the advocate is present
to follow up on recommendations.
6. The international training and education program to support the project needs to be
adaptable and flexible and must be able to accommodate a diminishing number of
suitably qublified trainees within DOL. Where possible, responsibility for planning
and delivering short-term training in Australia should be arranged under an
agreement for a fee for services with an appropriate orgmnisation in Austalia. The
altemative of bringing the trainer to Bangkok warrants investigation.
7. While Lherc are no grounds for concern on adverse gender impact, AilsAID would
like to see that statistics, such as a breakdown by gender of land title recipients, are
maintained by the Project to demonstrate this fact.






104-
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
M MYANMAR                                                                                        b"     Codostrol Co-er-ge Prior lo Land Titling Projed2
Pro-,nc-  Under Second [nnd T,iln9 Pro,p t   20
,  Provinces Under L[nd TIting Project
.  - --  province Bound-ries
Region Boundories
LAO
P E O P L E'S
DEM  REP                      e
.; +   <.         K                            _                   0 j,aFrw -\  < 
16 ,                                                                                                           in' .D
- .hoe  t)  -&t'.  >K A M P U C H E A
12 .  O'. .K.'.'h'                                      . Q   k   g  "   "   ' '
Gul     o         T ha  l  n
*                         * .(\                                                                                     
>    >   f   Gulf of Thai/and                                               l -   VIET NAM
) )C H  N A
5c (  -T j
*; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tHAMANI Q>y   <' ) 
hor         oaU#Sfen>I                    rAnc\~ ~ .r :oms,c.>
drnf ^ rh. r           tA      u   i~~~~~,Phl;\                                                                                     s  f- J     <'V,fET'NAM
( hroo  Sea
0              W0 200                        300,
Xrlerr,.r.r,                         \>>           )      >    -(-        \'                         \>MALAYSIA
C 0         1     0     t                        200                                                                                        S GA5POr '         E
_                                                       solo 1             MALAYSIA                                                        I        N E S I A









IMAGING
Report No.:          16490
Type'      ICR



