Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 8538-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
AUGUST 7, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
| dhi   mnt has a nesicted dshU and may be used by          only In de peufns of
theI  offe  dutie  Its contents may not otewie be disBosed  Wod BIat



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 22, 1990)
$1.00      -   Baht(B) 25.80
B1.00      -   $0.04
$1 million =   B 25.8 million
BE  million =   $38,760
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai             =   0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha)    =   6.25 rai
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIDAB    -  Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
CVA    -  Central Valuation Authority
DOL    -  Department of Lands
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LTP    -   Land Titling Project
LTPII    -   Second Land Titling Project
RTG    -   Royal Thai Government



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                    US$30.0 million
Terms:                     Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:       The project, covering 30 provinces and Bangkok
Metropoiitan Region, would support the second phase
of the Government's Accelerated National Cadastral
Mapping and Land Titling Program. It would
contribute to the alleviation of rural poverty and
underemployment, promote investment for more
intensive land use, help to strengthen the fiscal
system and increase Government revenues. The
project would include cadastral surveying and
mapping, the issuance of land titles, improvement of
land administration, strengthening of the Department
of Lands and the Central Valuation Authority, and
technical assist&nce and training.
Benefits and Risks:        An estimated 700,000 rural landholding families,
including perhaps as many as 50 of families in the
six northeast project provinces with a high
proportion of poverty districts, would benefit
directly from the project. In the more advanced
Eastern Seaboard project areas, improved security of
tenure and stability would support the growing
industrial and service industries, thereby providing
employment to migrants from the poverty areas. Some
122 of all rural landholders and 202 of urban
landholders are women who would obtain secure title
under the project. The project is not expected to
have any negative environmental impact and may
actually make a positive contribution by providing
security and opening the way for more intensive land
use, thus reducing encroachment into forest reserves
by farmers who would otherwise resort to shifting
cultivation. Introduction of a land information
system should facilitate government's ability to
protect ecologically vulnerable areas and to cope
with social impacts such as resettlement. The
project would have an important fiscal impact, in
increasing the collection of government revenues
from land transactions in the form of transfer fees,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
stamp duties and the capital gains tax. The level
of risk associated with this project is low. The
various participating agencies all support the
project and are committed to its objectives. Host
of the technical innovations in the project have
been tested, some on a pilot basis, and are not
expected to present significant training or
implementation problems.
Estimated Costs: a/
(US$ Million)
Local    Foreign   Total
Rural mapping                               6.0      6.0       12.0
Urban remapping                             2.1      0.8        2.9
Land titling and administration            35.8      2.8       38.6
Land valuation                              3.0      0.4        3.4
DOL institution-building                    1.0      0.2        1.2
Technical assistance and training           0.8      5.2        6.0
Studies                                     0.4       -         0.4
Total Baseline Costs                   49.1      15.4      64.5
Physical Contingencies                 0.6       0.4       1.0
Price Contingencies                    6.3       1.2       7.5
Total Project Costs                    56.0      17.0      73.0
Financing Plan:
Government                       35.7       2.1      37.8
AIDAB (Grant)                     0.0       5.2       5.2
IBRD                             20.3       9.7      30.0
Total                         56.0     17.0       73.0
Estimated Loan Disbursements:
IBRD FY                      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
--------   (US$ million)-----------
Annual                        2.4     5.1    7.5       9.0      6.0
Cumulative                    2.4     7.5   15.0      24.0    30.0
Economic Rate of Return:              Not applicable
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties amounting to US$3.6 million.



- iii -
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ....................................... i-ii
I.  BACKGROUND .....................................................1
Land Resources          .................... ......               ...............1
Official Land Policy and Legal Framework.............1........
Present Status of Land Ownership                         ..  3
Land Use Policies and Economic Development               .     .      3
Accelerated National Cadastral Mapping and Land Titling
Program .............................           ........................4
Experience Under the Land Titling Project (Ln. 2440-TH) .......5
II.  THE PROJECT ..................................................... 7
Objectives and Summary Description ............... ...... ... ... .7
Main Features .......................... 0............... .............. 8
Rural and Urban Mapping ...................................... .   8
Land Titling and Administration ...... ... .  .......... .......... 9
Development of the Central Valuation Authority ............... 12
Strengthening of the Department of Lands ........... *......... 13
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies ................. 13
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                      .         .         14
Department of Lands                .......................................... 14
Project Implementation Arrangements .......................... 15
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ......................... 16
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                        ..                    17
Project Costs                  .. ............... . 17
Financing .................... .... ....#........ #.....*.*..is.........1
Procurement ......................................................... 19
Disbursement .       .      ............................................... 20
Cost Recovery ................................................ 21
Accounts and Audits                ................ . 21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank/AIDAB appraisal mission which
visited Thailand from February 23 to March 13, 1990. The mission comprised
Messrs. Y. Wong (Senior Agriculturalist), C-H. Chung (Senior Agricultural
Economist) and J. P. Correia da Silva (Senior Counsel, Bank), and Ms. Lilla
Hendry (Program Officer, AIDAB).   Mr.  A. Byrne (Financial Analyst) assisted
the mission's work from headquarters.



- iv -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .    ............................... 22
General            .      .     . ......................... 22
Benefits       .    .     .................................... 22
Fiscal Impact .    .     .........................................     24
Beneficiaries .    .     .........................................     26
Effect on the Environment .    . .................................. 27
Risks .     .       .........................................  27
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................... 27
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates and Financing
2. Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
3. Rural and Urban Cadastral Surveying and Mapping
4. Land Administration
5. Development of the Central Valuation Authority
6. Studies
7. Disbursement Schedule
8. Supervision Schedule
9. Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Organization of Ministry of Interior
2. Organization of Department of Lands
3. Existing Land Titling Project Management Organizational Structure
4. Department of Lands Total Revenues
5. Transaction Value of Registered Property
6. Photomap Production
7. Urban Mapping
8. Rural Title Conversion
9. Issuing of Titles
10. Typical Rural Photomap
11. Typical Urban Photomap
12. Activity Flow Chart
MAP
Main Project Areas - IBRD 21956R



I. BACKGROUND
Land Resources
1.1      The Kingdom of Thailand has a total land area of about 321 million
rai (51.4 million ha or 514,000 sq km), of which about 160 million rai
(502) are suitable for agriculture (Annex 4, Table 1). Of this, about 152
million rai were cultivated in 1985 1/   (e.g., about 47Z of the total land
surface, or 952 of land thought to be suitable for agriculture). About 84
million rai (55?) were planted to rice, 51 million rai (34') to upland
crops, 11 million rai (7Z) to rubber, and 5 million ra4 (4Z) to fruit
trees. About two-fifths of the paddy lands were 'inder some form of
irrigation, but only a small part of this area could be irrigated in the
dry season. Forest land has been severely encroached, with only about 68Z
of the total National Forest Reserve area of '36 million rai remaining
relatively untouched.
Official Land Policy and Legal Framework
1.2      Traditionally, all Yand  in  Thailand  belonged  to the Crown, but
landholders were commonly recognized as being rightful owners who could
dispose of their property qui'.e freely.   Before the 20th century, land use
rights were determined by custom; villagers regarded unoccupied forests and
abandoned lands as community resources, to which they had free access. The
first official system of land registration was introduced in Thailand in
1901 with the examination of claims, registration of documents, issuance of
titles and the establishment of a Department of Lands (DOL) within the
M'nistry of Agriculture  (DOL was  later  transferred  to  the Ministry of
Interior in 1941). Nonetheless, practices continued much as before, until
the post-war period. In the past few decades, however, population growth
has exhausted the supply of most unused agricultural lands and led to
severe depletion  of  forest  resources.    Concern  over  the disappearing
forests and the legality of private settlements on public lands has
prompted considerable land legislation and led to the establishment of the
present system  of  land  administration.    A  Land  Code  enacted in 1954
consolidated all prior land laws and provided the Government with a legal
framework for a land administration system designed to control land use,
determine ownership and generate revenues from land. About ten more Land
Acts have been passed since 1954 to further consolidate the Code.
1.3      Under the Code DOL  is  empowered  to  issue four forms of private
land document:
1/ Source: Thailand Development Research Institute, Thailand Natural
Resources Profile (1986).



-2-
(a) A Title Deed (Nor Sor Sii, NS4, or Chanod) indicates full
ownership, and is supported by a deed plan showing the
position of boundary mark stones, which are usually measured
by ground survey methods.
(b) A Certificate of Utilization (Nor Sor Saam, NS3, or Nor Sor
Saam Kor, NS3K) indicates that the person named as landholder
has put the land to use. The NS3 is based on a rough ground
survey, as a temporary measure before titling.  By the 1970s,
DOL was unable to cope with both the demand for titles and
the requirement for ground surveys; to speed up the issuance
of certificates of utilization, beginring in 1972 the NS3K
was issued, based on unrectified aerial photographs. The
certificate is supported by a deed plan showing the shape
and size of the holding. During the 1972-82 period, about
seven million NS3K certificates were issued. Holders of NS3
and NS3K certificates have the same possessory rights as
holder of title deeds; the only difference is the manner in
which the boundaries are surveyed. These certificates are
now being converted into full title deeds.
(c) A Pre-emptive Certificate (Nor Sor Song, NS2, or Bai Chong)
authorizes temporary occupation of land. The certificate is
not transferable except on inheritance and is conditional on
use within six months of issue.
(d)  A Claim Certificate (Sor Kor Nueng or SK 1) indicates a claim
lodged by a person who was in possession and made use of the
land prior to 1954, the effective date of the Land Code. The
certificate is transferable, subject to advertisement of the
transfer, and is convertible to title deed or certificate of
utilization.
DOL also issues an additional document, known as a Document for State Land
(Nor Sor Lor, NSL), to government agencies when land is used for public
purposes.    Some  of  the  aforementioned  documents  are  kept  in  DOL's
provincial land offices, while others are retained in its district offices.
1.4      Finally, other Government  agencies  also  issue  various forms of
licenses and other documents on private land, which are not specifically
provided for under the Land  Code.    The  most  important of these are the
usufruct licenses issued to settlers by the Public Welfare Department and
the Cooperatives Promotion Department; the usufruct license issued by the
Royal Forestry Department to squatters in gazetted forest reserves; and the
land occupancy certificate issued  by  the Agricultural Land Reform Office.
The objective of these documents has been to provide temporary occupancy
rights to farmers until such time as they can obtain more secure tenure.
However, DOL has limited capacity  to  convert these certificates into land
titles documents and, in any case, the Government has decided that such



-3-
landholders should receive only some form of restricted title-like document
(i.e., documents which cannot be sold or otherwise transacted, but which
are inheritable).    Issues  have  therefore  arisen  as  to whether other
agencies should be permitted Lo issue these certificates and licenses, and
the need to modify the Lar.d Code to permit their registration.
Present Status of Land Ownership
1.5      Land ownership statistics for Thailand  are very approximate.  DOL
data (Annex 4, Table 2) indicate that in 187 private lands included about
20.6 million parcels and occupied a total area of about 139 million rai
(43Z of total land area). Of these, about 6.7 million parcels (31 million
rai) had already  been  issued with  title  deeds.    Another 10.5 million
parcels (71 million rai) were covered by certificates of utilization and
pre-emptive certificates, and 3.4 million parcels (36 million rai) were
undocumented.   Forest  reserves  and  pre-reserves  were  estimated at 147
million rai, and government real estate and other state land at 23 million
rai. The remaining area in the country comprises vacant state land (23
million rai). In fact, the area of undocumented land is more extensive, as
it includes land in settlement schemes of other Government agencies under
pre-emptive and claim certificates. Conversely, the extent of vacant state
land is probably less than estimated.
Land Use Policies and Economic Development
1.6      Agricultural Development.   Agriculture's  importance  in the Thai
economy is reflected by its 171 share  of  GDP, 552 of exports and over 602
of employment in 1987188. Also, about 80? of Thailarnd's populatior. of 55
million people live in rural areas, comprising about 5 million farm and 1.8
million  non-farm  households.      During  1960-75,  the  sector  performed
exceptionally well at a growth rate exceeding 52 p.a., mainly through the
development of new agricultural  areas.    This  rate  has since dropped to
about 3.52 p.a., as new lands for agricultural expansion have become
scarce. While strong agricultural performance in past years has improved
incomes, the majority of rural families remain in poverty, as average farm
sizes have not increased and many yields are declining.
1.7      The Government's stated objective for the agriculture sector under
the Sixth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1987-1991) is
growth with equity. In view of the scarcity of new lands for development,
this growth would have to derive mainly from productivity improvements.
However, the intensification of farming and diversification into higher-
value  agriculture  necessitate   increased   capital  investment  in  land
improvements, such as irrigation and drainage, better land preparation, and
the purchase of farm equipment and appropriate quantities of inputs.
Financial institutions, both government and commercial, presently provide
medium and long term credit only against collateral, usually land which is
covered by a full title deed.   Consequently, the legitimate holders of the
14 million parcels of private land, covering a total area of about 107
million rai (712 of total cultivated  area),   who are still awaiting title



- 4 -
deeds have no access to medium and longer term credit for farm improvement.
The economic impact would appear to be significant. Bank-financed studies
in Thailand (para. 5.4) confirm that land values, access to institutional
credit, investments in land and land productivity are all increased through
the  provision  of  land   tilization  certificates  to  undocumented land.
While full data are not yet available for comparison with land covered by
title deeds, it can be assumed that they would show a similar trend.
1.8      Urban Development.  Thailand has been experiencing substantial and
sustained urban growth, not only in Bangkok but also in the provincial
centers where subdivisions and construction are booming and are straining
public utilities and services. In Bangkok, the total number of about 1.6
million parcels is increasing at a rate in excess of 4Z p.a. Land parcels
in urban areas are nearly all covered by title deeds, but due to
subdivisions urban cadastral maps are normally incomplete, out-of-date,
damaged or too small in scale for most practical purposes. The need for
accurate urban cadastral maps is essential for the planning and budgeting
of development programs and for the mobilization of resources for their
implementation. Without such records, the Government is unable to tax real
property effectively and thus loses revenues which could be channelled for
development purposes. In addition, due to resource constraints DOL's
Central Valuation Authority (CVA) revalues property only once eaery four
years, while market  values  increase  much  faster.   The same constraints
force CVA to adopt block valuations instead of the 4-.ore effective
individual parcel valuations, again resulting in low CVA values. Since DOL
and, to some extent, the Department of Local Administration (DOLA) assess
land taxes  on  the  basis  of  these  CVA  values,  Less  revenue is being
collected.
Accelerated National Cadastral Mapping and Land Titling Program
1.9       The Gover- ent's  concerns  over  land  titling  and productivity
problems (para. 1.7) led to the establishment in 1980 of a Land Policy
Subcommittee  of  the   National   Rural   Development   Committee.    This
Subcommittee commissioned a land policy and use study which recommended,
inter alia, that the issuance of secure rights to land be speeded up, the
mode of operation cf DOL be improved, and land rights documentation and
administration be rationalized.   As  the  titling  program for the country
would have taken a very long time to complete at the prevailing speed, the
Government developed and began to implement as from 1984 an Accelerated
National Cadastral Mapping and Land Titling Program, which has been
supported under Ln. 2440-TH for the Land Titling Project (para. 1.10). The
main objective is to cover the remaining 14 million parcels which need to
be titled, over a 20-year period, in four phases. The following targets
were set for the program:
(a) Production of new cadastral maps and transformation of
existing maps, covering a total of 80,000 mapsheets based on
the Universal Transverse Mercator projection (UTM) and new
satellite-based controlled surveys, for rural and urban areas



throughout the country. The old mapping was based on 29
local origins and was distorted by a significant number of
errors in the control surveys. The internationally adopted
UTM projection, a syd.em covering the whole globe in standard
zones each 60 wide, minimizes distortions of length and area
arising from plotting the spherical earth on a flat plane.
(b) Issuance of title deeds for private lands (107 million rai)
and land documents for state lands (16 million rai),
covering about 14 million parcels over an area of 123
million rai.
(c) Decentralizationt of land administration and related services
to local offices by the establishment of about 300 branch
land officesi and improving the maintenance of lanc;-related
documents such as title deeds and mapsheets. Under the old
land administration system, owners of land with title deeds
needed to go to the Provincial Land Office to register any
transaction. In future, title records would be decen-
tralized to more conveniently located branch land offices in
the districts which offer a full range of services.
(d) Development o. fficient land valuation practices as a basis
for land tax assessment and collection. In 1983, the
Central Valuation Authority (CVA.p was created with the status
of a division in DOL, with the aim of assisting in more
efficient 0-sessment and collection of fees and taxes to
provide equitable values for land expropriated by the
government. To date it has valued land parcels throughout
Bangkok and Pattaya, and in a large number of urban and
district municipalities throughout Thailand.
(e) Improvement of DOL's organization, management and operations.
Experience Under The Land Titling Project (Ln. 2440-TH)
1.10     The Land Titling  Project,  started  in  1984, supported the first
5-year phase (subsequently extended to 6 years) of the Accelerated National
Cadastral Mapping and Land Titling Program (para. 1.9). Financed under
Bank Loan 2440-TH, with AIDAB grant cofinancing of technical assistance and
training, LTP covered five provinces in the North and four in the Northeast
Region. The project included cadastral surveying and mapping, the issuance
of land titles, the improvement of land administration, strengthening of
DOL and CVA, and provision of technical assistance and training.
1.11     LTP is now in its  sixth  year  of implementation and is scheduled
for  completion  at  the  end   of   September  1990.    Implementation  is
satisfactory.   Cadastral  map  preparation  ir  rural  areas has virtually
achieved the target of 11,000 sheets, while in urban areas the target of



- 6 -
2,000 sheets  is  expected  to  be  exceeded  by  402.    Title issuance by
adjudication (0.8 million parcels) is nearly complete, but title issuance
by conversion of land utilization certificates (1.4 million parcels) will
achieve only about 401 of project  target.   This delay, caused by the late
acquisition of automated map transformation equipment, is expected to be
made up during the follow-up  second  phase  project.    About 54 of the 62
targeted new branch  land  offices  would  be  constructed.   The technical
assistance and training co-financed by AIDAB have placed a crucial role in
project implementation in the introduction of modern and more efficient and
accurate cadastral surveying and mapping technology and in the overall
institutional development of DOL.
1.12     An Organization, Management and Operations (OMO) study was carried
out in 1986 under the LTP, with the objective of ensuring that DOL could
respond to the new demands and increased responsibilities generated by the
land  titling,   technological   innovations,   and   improvement  in  land
administration programs. The 014 study resulted in four separate reports
on Operations, Administrative Computing, Finance and  Training.  DOL made a
serious attempt to follow  the  OMO  recommendations, although this has not
been possible in all cases.   The main achievements have included:
(a) the partial reorganization of DOL into 5 functional groups
(Survey and Mapping Services; Document Issue; Land Policy.
Valuation, and Registration; Land Office Management; and
Central Services);
(b) the  creation  of  six   new  divisions:  Photogrammetry,  Map
Transformation,  Planning,  Equipment  Control,  Land Business
Control, and the National Land Allocation Commission;
(c) the establishment of  the  Office of Provinco..al Administration
as a pilot unit attached to the Office of the Secretary. The
full divisional status of this office is subject to further
discussions with the Civil Service Commission (CSC);
(d) the appointment of a Work Systems Improvement Committee to
review operationrl procedures; and
(e) the creation of a Manpower Planning sub-division in the
Personnel Division.
1.13     Other improvements include  the  strengthening  of provincial land
offices with more staff  and  facilities.    The Training Division has been
provided with additional higher-level positions.    At the end of 1989, the
Cabinet approved in principle the upgrading of CVA to the level of
department. A new survey and mapping building has been completed and is
being fully utilized. Staff development has also been a major focus of the
project. The intake of the Survey Engineering course at Chulalongkorn
University (CU) has doubled and the course curriculum modified to produce
100 graduates (20 per year) for DOL. A valuation course has been
successfully established at the Bangkok Institute of Technology (BIT) with



- 7 -
an annual  intake  of  30  to  35  students.    Graduate  and undergraduate
scholarshipF and short term training courses for about 170 staff in
Australia on technical subjects are  being  completed.   On the other hand,
the development of in-service training programs has been slow due to
insufficient staffing of the Training Division.
1.14     With regard to land valuation work, CVA has completed market-based
valuations on a block basis in 124 urban and district municipalities
throughout the country, including all the municipalities in Bangkok. Its
activities have been somewhat constrained by a shortage of trained valuers,
the lack of official recognition of the profession of valuers, the need for
an appropriate Property Valuation Act and more revision of some appraisal
methods. Nonetheless, CVA has made a good start and a strategic plan for
its development is under preparation.
1.15     While it is still  too  early  to  be  able  to measure the socio-
economic impact of LTP, ongoing socio-economic surveys (para. 5.4) have
shown  that  land  values,   access   to   institutional  credit  and  land
productivity have all improved as a result of titling. The efficiency of
property and transfer tax collections has also improved as a result of the
project: DOL revenues increased substantially between 1986 and 1988 (para.
5.7), due partly to more frequent transactions and partly to higher
assessed values of lands.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Summary Description
2.1      The project would  support  the  second  phase of the Government's
Accelerated National Cadastral Mapping and Land Titling Program. The
initial five-year phase, being implemented with support from the Bank under
Ln. 2440-TH and AIDAB (paras. 1.10 - 1.15), was extended by one year and is
now scheduled for completion in September 1990. This second phase project,
preparad by DOL in 1989 with AIDAB assistance, would therefore cover the
next four-year period, starting at the end of the first phase in order to
provide continuity in Program implementation.
2.2      The principal objective of the  project  would be to grant secure,
documented tenure to rural landholders, thereby facilitating their access
to institutional credit, improving investments in the land, and increasing
agricultural productivity and family incomes. This objective addresses the
key issues of rural poverty and underemployment and Ls thus consistent with
the Bank's strategy for agriculture and rural development in Thailand.
Secondly, the completion of an improved national cadastre would greatly
assist the various RTG agencies responsible for development planning and
land  administration,  and more   accurate   property  valuation  and  tax
assessments would strengthen the fiscal system and increase government
revenues, particularly in urban areas.



-8-
Main Features
2.3      The project would  support  the  following main components through
the provision of funds for civil works, aerial photography, vehicles,
furniture, equipment, materials, technical assistance and training, and
other development costs:
(a) accelerated cadastral mapping of 155,000 sq knm of rural land, at
a scale of 1:4.000, and accelerated cadastral remapping of 2,000
sq km of urban land:
(b) the issuance of full titles for undocumented lands (1.8 million
parcels) and lands held under various types of pre-ownership
certificates   (1.2   million   parcels),   and   improved   land
administration through decentralization of the land register from
provincial to branch level and the development of a pilot land
information systems;
Cc) strengthening of the Central Valuation Authority;
(d) strengthening of the Department of Lands; and
(e) provision of project-related technical assistance, training and
studies.
2.4      The project would cover the  remainder of Bangkok and 30 provinces
not assisted under the first phase, including 16 provinces of mainly high
value rural land in the lower North and upper Central regions, six
provinces of mainly less developed rural land in the Northeast region, and
eight provinces of land earmarked for intensive development on the Eastern
seaboard. Farmers occupying high value agricultural land, who receive
clear title, would have the greatest chance of increasing their incomes
significantly.    In  areas  with  relatively  less  potential (Northeast),
farmers would benefit mainly from improved security of tenure, and more
modest improvements in income. Provinces with the high property values, as
well as the Bangkok metropolitan areas, u.uld be potentially important
sources of increased revenue for the Government.
Rural and Urban Mapping
2.5      Targets.  Rural cadastral  surveying  and  mapping,  at a scale of
1:4,000 and following the specifications of the new series of maps
introduced under LTP, would be carried out for all land state and private
land parcels throughout  the  project  area.    The  maps are prepared from
rectified photographs based on the UTM projection (para. 1.9), using up-to-
date aerial photography.    A  total  of  24,000  photomap  sheets would be
produced under the project.    The  total  20-year  program is estimated at
90,000 sheets. About 11,000 map sheets  have  been prepared under LTP, at a
rate which has increased to 4,000 map sheets per year.  It is expected that
with the replacement of two rectifiers proposed under the project, this can
be further increased to 6,000 map sheets per year.



2.6      The  cadastral  coverage  of  the  Bangkok  metropolitan  area and
provincial cities with rectified photomaps et a scale of 1:1,000, enlarged
in some cases to a scale of 1:500, would be continued under the project. A
total of 4,000 photomap sheets would be produced, at the rate of 1,000
sheets a year, which was achieved by the end of LTP. Under LTP, about
2,500 photomaps have been produced for Bangkok and 1,500 photomaps for
other towns. Much of this work involves remapping of old cadastral maps.
Map production would use new technology (paras. 2.8 - 2.9), larger scale
aerial photography, and rectified photographs.   Overlays for each photomap
are produced based on existing citle records, showing the location and
extent of each land parcel. Ground surveys are undertaken, as appropriate,
to supplement identification on the photographs.
2.7      Technology.  Aerial photography of  a  total area of about 132,000
sq km of rural land and 1,500 sq km of urban land would be carried out
under contracts with international  firms.    Improved procedures for field
survey control developed under LTP would be followed, except that the
Doppler satellite receivers would be replaced by Global Positioning System
(GPS) receivers.
2.8      Prior to  LTP,  cadastral  surveying  was  carried  out  by ground
survey, using theodolite-and-tape traverses for control, and was based on
29 local origins.    Significant  errors  were  found because of inaccurate
control surveys. Under LTP, this system has been replaced by UTM mapping,
with Doppler satellite-based position control, consistent with positions in
the Royal Thai Survey Department (RTSD) geodetic network, electronic
distance measurement, and minor control in blocks of up to 400 photographs
by computerized  analytical  photogrammetric  plotting  methods.   Many DOL
staff have been trained in this new technology, and the degree courses for
cadastral surveying initiated under LTP would continue under the proposed
project.
2.9      The change to GPS receivers under LTP II would represent a further
technical advance. GPS is a satellite system that enables the position of
a receiver placed at a survey point to be determined, quickly and
accurately. Currently its use is limited to specific time 'windows" of
about six hours per day but, when a complete set of satellites are in orbit
around 1993, these would be extended to 24 hours. Compared to the Doppler
system, GPS is quicker (1 hr reading against 48 hr), more accurate (1 cm
precision against 100 cm), and more cost-effective.
Land Titling and Administration
2.10     Land titling  includes  three  processes: adjudication, conversion
and transformation.
(a) Adjudication is the process of issuing title deeds for land
covered  by  NS3   certificates   and   undocumented  land.    DOL
adjudication  teams  officially  determine,   in  the  field,  the
boundaries of separately owned parcels and the ownership and other
rights held in each.    This  is  done  by reaching agreement with



- 10 -
village authorities and neighbors of the parcel holders on the
legitimacy of their status and on the parcel boundaries. After
the placement of mark stones and tape measurement of parcel
dimensions, the parcel which is identified on the UTM cadastral
map is adjudicated to the holder.   Under the project, 1.8 million
parcels covered by new mapping would be adjudicated and title
deeds issued by a maximum of 320 field teams to be established
under the project.   The  project  would  support the provision of
vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials and other operating
costs of the  adjudication  teams.    Assurances  were obtained at
negotiations that, promptly after adjudication in the project
area, title deeds would be issued to occupants of private land in
accordance with the Land Code, and all land used for public
purposes would be covered by appropriate State land documents
(para. 6.1 (a)).
(b) Conversion covers the issuing of titles to landholders with NS3K
certificates, as well as to eligible occupiers of land not already
in possession of full titles within the areas of the new cadastral
map sheets. Conversion is largely a clerical and administrative
operation entailing the replacement of NS3K certificates by title
deeds and the renumbering of title deed parcels in areas covered
by map transformation. The work requires careful supervision and
checking, and would be carried out by 320 conversion teams, each
consisting of a team leader, ten converters and two checkers, who
travel from district to district and work in branch land offices
in accordance with a schedule coordinated with the cadastral
mapping program. Under the project, 1.2 million NS3K certificates
would be transformed into title deeds. The project would support
the provision of vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials and
other operating costs of the conversion teams.
(c) Title transformation is the plotting of old deeds on the new
cadastral map sheets, including renumbering of parcels and the
subsequent renumbering and refiling of supporting documentation.
Under  the  project,  1.4   million   NS4  certificates  would  be
transformed, mainly in urban areas. The project would support the
provision of vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials and other
operating costs of the transformation teams.
2.11     Land Administration.  Improvements in land administration would be
achieved mainly through the restructuring and decentralization of DOL's
operations outside of Bangkok: the register of title deeds would be
decentralized from the current 72 provincial land offices (and also
Bangkok) to branch land offices, and a number of smaller district offices
would be phased out as they complete title issuance work. Each branch
office would cover an area of at least 25,000 titles and would handle all
land office business previously carried out only at the provincial level
(registration  of   dealings,   transfers,   mortgages   and  subdivisions,
production and upkeep of land title deeds, and all processes leading to
these, such as geodetic control, photomap production, adjudication and
cadastral  surveys,  NS3K  and   NS4  conversions,  cadastral  index  maps,
valuations).   The  provincial  offices  would perform these same functions



- 11 -
for the central provincial district in which they are located, and would
also  supervise  the  operations   of   the   new  branch  offices.    This
restructuring was initiated under LTP in the nine provinces covered by that
project, with clear results in terms of the provision of more efficient and
accessible services to the public; it would now be extended to the 30 LTP
II provinces. The branch offices would be staffed mainly with personnel
transferred from neighbouring district land offices that are being phased
down, as well as a small number of staff who would be newly recruited or
transferred from provincial land  offices.    The project would finance the
construction of 62 new branch land offices and staff houses and storage
facilities, equipment, vehicles, furniture and other development costs for
branch land offices.
2.12     Also with a  view  to  improving  land  administration, pilot land
information system (LIS) activities would be tested under the project.
Focussing on provincial and branch land offices, the objective would be .o
establish an accurate data base on land parcels, tenure, ownership, values
and other related  information.    At  present, many government departments
have overlapping interests and the sharing of land-related data would
reduce duplication and the risk of poor decisions made on the basis of
inadequate information. To this end, institutional arrangements need to be
strengthened, both within DOL (DOL branch offices now handle 60 different
documents on land tenure and transfer, with much duplication of content)
and nationally, in order to begin to treat land information as a corporate
resource. A pilot project to computerize the data and improve control, as
well as reduce the number of steps in document handling, has been
successfully completed at DOL's Phra Kanong Land Office, and a land
administration adviser under the project would follow up that study and
investigate  legal  and  other   constraints  to  better  land  information
mAnagement. It has already been demonstrated that the computerization of
caveat records would lead to major savings of time and avoidance of
mistakes in title investigation, and the use of micro-computers for this
purpose would be  exteuded  under  the  project.    Also, to facilitate the
exchange of land parcel data, especially between land offices and CVA, a
standard parcel reference system would be adopted by both organizations.
Standards would also be developed for computer hardware and software, as
well as the procedures for data exchange and updating. A mechanism would
be proposed and tested under the pilot project to ensure compatibility of
hardware and software for the land information system.
2.13     In a wider context, a national  LIS would embrace not only DOL and
CVA, but also RFD, RTSD, DOLA, BMA, Land Development Department and public
utilities. Prior steps would include the conduct of user needs studies to
establish what data need to be shared and which agencies should be
responsible for their upkeep; the establishment of national standards for
the exchange of digital data; and clear incentives for cooperating
departments  to  keep  up-to-date  records.    There  is  already  one such
precedent in place: at present, a Bangkok Land Information System (BLIS)
project is attempting to build up a data base for house, rent and
development taxes, public utilities, city traffic and flood control. BLIS
is conducted by the Bangkok Metropolitan Authority (BMA) in cooperation
with DOL, Metropolitan Waterworks Authority (MWA), Metropolitan Electricity
Authority (MEA) and the Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT). Under



- 12 -
the project, DOL would lay  the  groundwork  for  this kind of effort to be
undertaken on a national scale.   The project would provide 36 staff months
of technical assistance to DOL for work on the pilot LIS, as well as micro-
computers and other minor equipment and materials for the branch land
offices which would be involved.
Development of the Central Valuation Authority
2.14     The project would support the  continued development of CVA in the
transition reriod before it becomes a full department, including the
preparation of a master plan, the introduction of more efficient valuation
techniques (Annex 5), the expansion of its present office in Bangkok,
recruitment of new staff, the creation of a professional career structure
for trained and qualified valuers and implementation of an intensive in-
house training program. The project would finance the expansion, equipping
(including computers and vehicles) and furnishing of the central office and
other development costs.
2.15     CVA's efficiencv would  be  improved  through  the replacement of
block evaluations with individual parcel valuations based on mass appraisal
techniques, which permit the accurate determination of market values for
each area where detailed inspections have created differential values among
parcels. Initially, CVA would continue to focus on the urban/industrial
areas of Thailand, where property is more valuable and real estate
transfers most active, although eventually parcel valuations would be
introduced throughout  the  country.    The  impact  on  central government
revenues would be substantial, as the new CVA values (used to determine
transfer fees, stamp duties and income taxes on every real estate
transaction) replace DOL's previous estimates, which were frequently
outdated and low in comparison to the rapidly appreciating real estate
market. The targets and operational requirements for the transition to
individual parcel valuations using mass appraisal techniques would be
spelled out in a master plan for CVA, which would also address related
policy, institutional and technical issues which need to be resolved (Annex
5). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DOL would submit a
master plan for the development of CVA to the Bank for review by October 1,
1991 (para. 6.1 (b)).
2.16     Under the  project,  the  CVA  headquarters  in  Bangkok  would be
expanded by the addition of a fourth floor, for which a detailed design is
already available. Staff working on areas outside Bangkok would continue
to travel from the head office, until such time as CVA's master plan has
been completed, approved and has begun to be implemented. Over the long-
term, CVA intends to establish 12 regional offices throughout the country,
inclusive of Bangkok. CVA presently employs 102 staff, and an additional
60 positions have been approved by Civil Service Commission for Thai fiscal
year 1990 (although budget allocations are likely to be sufficient for only
about half that number).   Further  annual  increases of about 30 staff per
year have been assumed for CVA under the project. The upgrading of CVA to
a full department is expected to occur within 1-2 years, as a result of
which RTG would provide additional resources to CVA. Full-time external
technical assistance (48 staff months) would be provided to CVA for the



- 13 -
detailed preparation and programming of the master plan, the introduction
of computerized techniques, operational supervision and direction, and an
integrated valuation training program. The latter would include a lecturer
for a period of seven months during Project Year 1, to continue the
valuation course offered at BIT, after which the training responsibility
would be transferred  to  Thai  faculty.   Specialized short-term valuation
training (9.6 staff months) would also be provided under the guidance of
the full-time advisor.
Strengthening of the Department of Lands
2.17     The project would provide  continued support for the institutional
development program for DOL, which was started under LTP with AIDAB
technical assistance, following the recommendations of the OMO study (para.
1.12). The OMO study aimed at improving DOL's operational capacity to
speed up the land titling process, upgrade land administration, and adopt
new technologies in cadastral surveying, mapping and titling. The main
features of the OMO recommendations, which are supported by the Civil
Service Commission and  the  Budget  Bureau,  include;    (a) the continued
reorganization of DOL into 5 functional groupings; (b) the establishment
of the Office of Provincial Management with full divisional status; (c)
the further strengthening of the Training Division; (d) the development of
a model branch land office as a blueprint for improvements in land
administration and land office  modernization;    (e) completion of the CVA
master plan; (f)   establishment  of  pilot land and management information
systems;   (g)    improvement  in  project  management  and administration,
particularly in monitoring and evaluation, both in the project office and
in the operating divisions; and (h) preparation of strategic plans for
technical  and  administrative  computing.    No  significant  changes  are
expected in DOL's organizational or management structure; rather, minor
adaptations would be made over time to adapt to evolving circumstances,
with a focus on the improvement of management, the development of
provincial land administration and management information systems, manpower
planning and training. The project would finance civil works for a second
mapping building at Pak Ret, vehicles, furniture, equipment, materials and
other development costs.
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
2.18     The technical assistance program and training co-financed by AIDAB
that have successfully supported the implementation of LTP (para. 2.17)
would be continued under the project.   Consultants would provide 350 staff
months of long and short-term   technical  assistance (Annex 2, para. 7) to
counterpart staff in the fields of project administration, management and
administration, computing, valuation and technical matters. The project
would also support both long and short-term training for DOL, CVA (CU) and
BIT  staff,  including  a  total  of   59  person  years  of  graduate  and
undergraduate training, and 472 person weeks of short-term and in-service
training (Annex 2, para. 8).   The courses established under LTP for survey
engineering  (degree)  at   Chulalongkorn   University  and  for  valuation



- 14 -
(diploma) at Bangkok Institute of Technology would be continued under the
project.
2.19     Finally, the project would support the following two studies aimed
at reviewing policy and institutional issues affecting land administration
and assessing the benefits of the land titling program (Annex 6):
(a)   A Land Policy, Management  and Administration Study,  which would
be strategic in nature and would focus ons (i) the priorities for
provincial selection; (ii) outstanding problems and issues related
to land management, administration, organization and documentation
(including their implications for the Land Code and future
manpower planning); (iii) cost recovery of title issuance; and
(iv) interrelationships with other agencies and the private sector
(especially with respect to land information and documentation).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DOL would submit a
final  report  on  the  study   on  land  policy,  management  and
administration to the Bank for review by February 1, 1994 (para.
6.1(c)).
(b)   A Soc.o-Economic  Impact  Study  to  assess:  (i)  the longer-term
impact of land titling in the primarily rural and not highly
commercialized LTP provinces; and (ii) the impact on both urban
and rural development in the more highly commercialized LTP II
Eastern  Seaboard  provinces.       Assurances   were  obtained  at
negotiations that DOL would submit a final report on the socio-
economic impact study to the Bank for review by February 1, 1994
(para. 6.1 (c)).
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Department of Lands
3.1      Established  in  1901,  the  Department  of  Lands  is  under  the
authority  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior  (MOI)  (Chart  1).    Since its
formation, DOL has been responsible for all aspects of land registration,
particularly cadastral survey and mapping and registration of land rights
throughout the  country.    In  1981,  DOL  was  also  made responsible for
creating a new Central Valuation Authority.
3.2      DOL  is  administered  by  a  Director-General,  assisted  by four
Deputies, one of whom is the Surveyor-General. Each Deputy is responsible
for 4-7 Divisions (Chart 2).   With  over  11,140  staff, DOL is one of the
largest and most complex RTG agencies.   About 392 of the staff are located
in Bangkok, with the remainder in the 72 provincial offices and about 600
district and branch land  offices.    DOL  staff  can be grouped into three
basic   occupational   categories:   (a)   lands   staff,   including  land



- 15 -
administration staff, land officers and legal officers; (b) technical
staff, including surveyors, draftsmen, map production and computerization
staff; and (c) general staff, including personnel, finance, accounting,
training, and clerks.
3.3      Following the recommendations of the OMO study (para. 1.12), under
LTP six new Divisions were established within DOL. The Project Administra-
tion Office was also created to coordinate the essential headquarter
function of LTP. In addition, an Office of Provincial Administration was
set up as a pilot project to coordinate and support the essential
provincial land office needs, and to supervise their activities. To ease
the problems of accommodation and to house the sensitive equipment acquired
under LTP, a new Survey and Mapping building was constructed at Pak Ret on
the  outskirts  of  Bangkok.      The   Divisions  of  Survey  and Happing,
Photogrammetry, Calculation and Data Processing, and Map Transformation,
involving some 500 staff, were moved to this new building in 1988.
3.4      In PY89 DOL had a budget  of  US$ 41.3 million, allocated to land
administration (71S), mapping and document issuance (14X), valuation (12),
general administration (5?) and land  allocation  (9Z).   The last function
concerns land settlement schemes which are unrelated to project activities.
LTP accounted for about 25? of DOL's budget. DOL's revenue in 1988 (para.
5.7) amounted to about US$ 460 million, an increase of about 1162 over 1987
collections, of which about 472 came from Bangkok metropolitan area. About
50? of the revenue is derived from transfer fees, 45X from capital gains
tax and 5? from stamp duties.
Project Implementation Arrangements
3.5      DOL would  execute  the  project,  except  for aerial photography,
which would be let out to contract, and the survey and valuation academic
courses, for which CU and BIT would be responsible. The Director-General
of DOL would be Project Director, under the supervision of a Project
Executive Committee (PEC) chaired by a Deputy Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Interior. PEC would be responsible for overall formulation of
policies and coordination with other RTG agencies. Within DOL, a Project
Administration Committee (PAC) chaired by the Project Director would
oversee   project   implementation   and   monitor   progress.        Various
subcommittees, which would report directly to PAC, would cover specific
areas of the project, including monitoring and evaluation, valuation, and
technical coordination.
3.6      For general supervision and routine  execution of the project, one
of the Deputy Director-Generals would act as Project Manager. He would be
assisted by the head of PAC for the coordination of project implementation
by all divisions participating in the project and for carrying out specific
project management functions. PAC would be closely supported by the team
of AIDAB advisers who would provide the technical inputs necessary for
effective project implementation. The Project Manager would be a principal



- 16 -
coordinator of all sub-committee activities. The structure and linkages of
the project management function are illustrated in Chart 3. A project
activity flow diagram is presented in Chart 12.
3.7      Except for the continued  reinforcement  of  the six new Divisions
established (para. 3.3), DOL's organizational structure and management
would not change significantly under the project. The decentralization of
land administration would continue with the creation of new branch land
offices to take over some of the work of provincial land offices. Greater
emphasis would be placed on the development of the Training Division and
CVA with the creation of new positions, both at h'gher and lower levels,
and strengthening of the Map Transformation Division.
3.8      A total of about  509  new  staff  (52 of present staffing level),
including about 376 staff for field adjudication, 18 staff for the Map
Transformation Division, two staff for the Planning Division and 113 staff
for CVA would be recruited under the project. Finding suitable candidates
would not present a serious problem, except for trained valuers. Many staff
would be supplied from ground survey and adjudication teams, operating in
those provinces outside the project area where mapping and titling
activities are  winding  down.    The  new  staff  would  be  mainly junior
surveyors, clerks, and  unskilled  labor.    Branch  land  offices would be
staffed mainly from neighboring district offices that -nuld close. CVA's
new trained valuers would come from BIT's valuation court - but the majority
of new staff would be recruited untrained.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
3.9      The Project  Administration  Office  would  continue to ~zoordinate
project monitoring and evaluation (M & E). However, in light of experience
gained under LTP, the M & E exercise would be fine-tuned so that it can be
used  more  effectively  as  a management  tool.    Presently,  a  mass of
information on land parcels and DOL operations at headquarters and in the
provinces is being collected, but the data is not being used selectively to
monitor and analyze progress, resolve problems, and serve as an input to
planning and  budgeting.    Consequently,  the  project  would  support the
development of a pilot management information system (MIS) to: (a) improve
the policy and planning functions by providing more reliable and timely
information on resource inputs and outputs; (b) provide external agencies
with more accurate information on DOL performance indicators and trends;
(c) improve information exchange between functional units, management and
the executive; and (d) better monitor organizational performance against
objectives.
3.10     Since most DOL  functions  occur  away  from  the head office, key
inputs from provincial and branch land offices would need to be aggregated
under a common set of definitions and guidelines. The identification of
key information requirements would be obtained through analysis of the
essential needs of managers for planning, implementation, monitoring,



- 17 -
reporting and policy development.    The  pilot  MIS  would be developed in
stages.   At negotiations, a  specific timetable for the various stages was
discussed and agreed.   A  firm  proposal  based  on a detailed feasibility
study would be prepared by June, 1991.   This study would link the MIS with
other information studies in the land offices and with the LIS. The next
stage would be the implementation of the pilot MIS which would be completed
by the end of 1992 and followed by the start of the main MIS. An
evaluation would be conducted after the pilot stage. AIDAB would provide
long-term technical assistance to DOL (Annex 2, para. 14) to introduce the
concept of management information and project planning, and for the design,
development and implementation of the pilot MIS, the preparation of
strategic plans for DOL, and the training of staff.
3.11     Project implementation reviews would  be carried out semi-annually
by PAC, and reports would be  action-oriented.   DOL would send to the Bank
its semestral project reports within three months of the end of each
semester, and within six months of final loan disbursement DOL would
prepare a project completion report, incorporating the results of the LTP
socio-economic studies and  evaluations.    A  Bank supervision schedule is
presented in Annex 8.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.1      The  total  project  cost,  including  physical  contingencies and
expected price increases, is estimated at US$73.0 million, of which US$17.0
million, (23Z) would be in foreign exchange.
4.2      Project costs are summarized in Tables 4.1(a) and (b), and further
details are provided in Annex 1.   Project costs include only costs defined
as capital expenditures in economic terms, including those costs involved
in creating an asset in the form of a new property cadastre, which is
expected to produce a stream of benefits over a number of years. Project
costs  labeled  *other  development   costs, include  mapping  and  survey
expenditures needed to develop, but not to maintain, the cadastre (e.g.
salaries and wages of temporary staff, travel allowances, office rent,
vehicle and  equipment  operation  and maintenance,  etc.).    Salaries of
permanent  staff  are  excluded.      Unit  price  estimates  for  vehicles,
equipment, materials and civil works for buildings are based on recent
contracts let by DOL under LTP.    The costs of consultant services for the
studies are based on rates for local firms and the costs of technical
assistance and training to be co-financed on estimates by AIDAB.   Physical
contingencies of 102 have been applied to buildings and 5? to other asset
items including aerial  photography.    No  physical or price contingencies
have been calculated on technical assistance co-financed by AIDAB. Price
contingencies amount to 12? of base costs plus physical contingencies,
assuming domestic price increases of 5.5Z in 1990 and 5? per year during



- 18 -
1991-94, and foreign price increases of 4.92 per year throughout the
project period. Taxes of about US$3.6 million (52) are included in project
costs.
T bl- 4.1 (a: PROJECT COST SUVMARY BY COMPONENT /
IBpht mi IiIonl        (US$ MlIiono       X    X Tot I
Loco  For ion Tot4  LOCOFI Foreign  Tot Ior ian Base Costs
Rural mapping                  165    154   809   6.0        6.0   12.0      s0      19
Urban remapping                 S4      20    74   2.1       0.8    2.9      28       4
Land titling and administration  925    72   997  86.6       2S9  B8.6        7      60
Land valuation                  77      11    68   8.0       0.4    8.4      12       6
DOL Institution-building        28       10    38   1.0      0.2    1.2      17       2
Tech. assistance and training   21      183   164   0.8      6.2    6.0      87       9
Studies                         11      -      11   0.4       -     0.4       -       1
Total Baseline Coss        1.268     400 1.6s6  49.1    16.4   64.5       24     1oo
Physical Contingencies      17        9    26   0.6      0.4    1.0      84       2
Price Contingencies         162      80   192   6.8      1.2    7.6      16      12
Total Prolect Cost         1.445     489 1.884  66.0    17.0   73.0       26     118
_/ Figures have been rounded.
Tabl- 4.1 (b): PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY
IBAt mllIoII..         (WS MillIon)       X    X TotaI
Local Foreign Total  LocaI  For  n  Totil Forelgn Base Costs
Civil works                    1s8      1s   165   6.4       0.6    8.0      10       9
Aerial photography              29      68    97   1.1       2.6    B.7      71       6
Vehicles, furniture, equipment
and materials                 825      111   486  12.6      4.8   16.9      26      26
Other development exponditures   742     7a   81S  28.8      2.7   81.6       9      49
Technical assiotance and
training                      21      188   154   0.8      5.2    6.0      87       9
Studios                         11       -     11   0.4       -     0.4       -       1
Total Baseline Costs       1.208     400 1.686  49.1    15.4   64.6       24     100
Physical Contingencie        17       0    26   0.6      0.4    1.0      40       2
Price Contingoncies         162      80   192   6.8      1.2    7.6      16      12
Total ProJect Costa        1.445     489 1884  56.0    17.0   78.0       28    l1
Financing
4.3       The proposed Bank loan  of  US$30.0  million  would finance 43Z of
project financing requirements,  net  of  taxes.            The  loan would include
US$11.8 million (69Z) of the foreign exchange requirements, and US$18.2
million of local costs. It would finance civil works, vehicles, equipment,
furniture, materials, aerial photography, studies and other development
costs of the rural and urban mapping  components.   The level of local cost
financing is justified to enable the Government to complete its land
titling investments on an accelerated schedule, given the important



- 19 -
linkages  with  economic   development   and  poverty  alleviation  (paras.
5.1-5.2).    AIDAB would  provide  US$5.2  million  (8t of  total project
financing, net of taxes), 312 of the foreign exchange requirement, for
technical assistance and overseas  training.   The technical assistance and
overseas training would be administered and financed by AIDAB on a parallel
basis. The Governmpnt would provide the balance of US$34.1 million (491 of
project costs net of taxes), plus :S$3.6 million in taxes. Project
financing arrangements are summarized in Table 4.2 and detailed in Annex 1,
Table 5. RTG would provide adequate annual budgetary support to DOL to
meet the counterpart funding requirements for the project.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN (US$ MILLION)
Government     IBRD    AIDAB    TOTAL
Civil works                                1.1          6.2       -       7.3
Aerial photography                         1.3          a.l       -        4.4
Vehicles, furniture, equipment and
materials                                10.9          8.3       -      19.2
Other development expenditures            23.7         12.0       -      35.7
Technical assistance and training          0.8           -       5.2      6.0
Studies                                     -           0.4       -       0.4
Total                                  37.8        30.0       5.2     73.0
Procurement
4.4      Aerial photography  estimated  to  cost US$4.4  million  would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in
accordance with  Bank  guidelines.    The  first  year's  contract would be
financed under LTP (Ln. 2440-TH) and is scheduled for execution in that
year. Bid documents were reviewed during loan negotiations and tenders are
expected to be let by the time of Bcard presentation. The largest civil
works contract for a second mapping building at Pak Ret, costing about
US$3.2 million, would also be awarded on the basis of ICB. Other
contracts for civil works in the main project areas and small buildings in
Bangkok, totaling US$4.1 million, would generally be small and scattered in
tine and place and would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB), in accordance with RTG procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies (estimated to
exceed US$ 200,000 each), amounting to US$ 3.3 million, would be awarded on
the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. A
preference margin limited to 15 of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation  of bids.    All other contracts would be
awarded on the basis of LCB in accordance with RTG procedures acceptable to
the Bank.    To  the  extent  practical,  similar  civil  works, equipment,



- 20 -
furniture and materials would be grouped together in the same tender for
reasons of economy and efficiency.
4.5      To provide flexibility, prudtnt  shopping  with a minimum of three
quotations (if possible) would be applied to small items each costing
US$25,000 or less, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$2.0 million.
Other development costs amounting to US$35.7 million include such items as
office  rent,  salaries,  wages   and   related  costs,  and  miscellaneous
expenditures, for which  procurement  is  inapplicable.    All bid packages
estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more for civil works, and
US$200,000 equivalent for vehicles, equipment, goods or supplies, would be
subJect to prior review by the Bank, as would final award of contracts in
these categories. Prior review by the Bank would cover abouit 70: of total
contract values.
Table 4.8: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY p
(USI MiIllon)
Tote I cost
Not    Including
Category of Expenditur,                    iCD      LC8  Other applicable contingencies
Civsl works                                z.2      4.1     -        -        7.8
(2.7)   (3.5)    2-)     (-)      (6.2)
Aerial photography                         4.4       -      -        -        4.4
(8 1)    (0   ~   ~                (B.1)
Vehicles, furniture, equipment and materials  8.8    18.9    2.0     -        19.2
(3.88)   (650)   (-)     (-)      (6.3)
Other development expenditures              -        -      5.4    80.8       85.7
C-)     C-)   (2.0)   (10.0)    (12.0)
rochnical assistance and training ki        -        _      60       -)       60
Studies                                     -        _      0.4      -        0.4
0-)     (-)   (0.4)    (-)        (0.4)
Total                              10 9    18.0    18.0    80.3       78.0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ 917)                   aW (1.0  W8. 0)
alFigures in parenthesis ropres nt IBR fiancnng.
aj Mainly co-financed by a grant from AIDAB using Its own procurement proedures.
Disbursement
4.6      The  proposed  Bank  loan  would  be  disbursed  against  eligible
expenditures
to cover:
(a)  85  of expenditure for civil works;
(b)  OO  of expenditure for aerial photography;
(c)  1002 of  foreign  expenditure,  1OO2  of  local  expenditure (ex-
factory cost) and 652 of local expenditure for locally procured
vehicles,  furniture,   equipment   and   materials,   and  other
development costs; and
(d)  10O? of expenditure for the studies.



- 21 -
Disbursements in respect of ICB expenditures would amount to about US$6.4
million equivalent.   Disbursements  against  civil works contracts costing
less than $500,000 each and against vehicles, furniture and equipment
contracts costing less than $200,000 each and against other development
costs would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE), the
related  supporting  documents  for   which   would   be  retained  by  the
implementing agency for periodic review by  the Bank.  The project would he
physically completed by September 1994, and loan closing would be on
9-itember 30, 1995.   An  estimated  schedule  of disbursements is given in
'mnex 7.  The disbursement schedule  is  based on tb'e profile for LTP, with
lead-time shortened by one year due to continuity between the two projects
and the experience in procurement gained by DOL in the implementation of
LTP. The aerial photography contract would be let at the beginning of the
project, and the vehicles and equipment would also be procured early on in
the first years of the project.
Cost Recovery
4.7      Capital  investment  in  sophisticated  automated  map  production
equipment has been completed  under  LTP.    This factor, together with the
experience gained under LTP and the resulting increases in efficiency,
would enable DOL to lower the cost of preparation and issuance of a title
deed from Baht 1,092 under LTP to an estimated Baht 524 under the project
(Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4). Under the Land Code, the charge for issuance of
a title deed has been set at Baht 90, regardless of the size and nature of
the holding, which is below even the reduced cost of production of the
title.  However,  cost  recovery  of  land  titles  and associat_d cervices
provided by DOL  is    achieved  not  only  through  such charges, but also
through the various systems of land and property taxes levied on the
landowner. From this stendpoint, the overall fiscal impact of the project
is  substantially  positive  (paras.   5.7   -  5.10).    Nonetheless,  the
feasibility of updating title deed costs would be reviewed under the
project Land Policy, Management and Administration Study (para. 2.18 (a)).
Accounts and Audits
4.8      As  under  LTP,  DOL  would  maintain  separate  project  accounts
covering all financial transactions for project activities and would
prepare annual statements of receipts and expenditures based on the project
accounts. DOL would also maintain the accounting and internal control
system used under LTP for disbursement by the Bank against statements of
expenditures. Auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit
these accounts annually, and certified copies of the audited financial
statements  and  the  auditor's   report   including  an  opinion  covering
withdrawals made against statements of expenditure would be submitted to
the Bank within nine months of the end of the RTG fiscal year. DOL would
maintain separate project accounts and annual financial statements of
project expenditures acceptable  to  the  Bank.    These  accounts would be
audited by auditors  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  and the auditors' report



- 22 -
would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each RTG
fiscal year.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
5.1      LTP has enabled DOL to start using new technologies and approaches
to improve the quality and  speed  of  its output (new standardized control
points, photomaps, computerized mapping, cadastral maps, land titles).
Priority was given to rural areas where absolute poverty was relatively
high, the lack of secure land documentation was considered to be a serious
impediment to productivity improvement and where frequent land conflicts
were encountered. Since most rural poverty in Thailand was concentrated in
the northeast and the upper north, LTP focussed on those regions. The much
smaller urban program was concentrated in Bangkok and the municipalities of
the aforementioned rural areas. The emphasis of the proposed LTP II would
be to: (a) complete the coverage of six relatively poorer provinces in the
northeast; (b) extend the coverage to 16 provinces with higher value rural
land, primarily in the lower north and central region; and (c) extend the
coverage to eight rapidly industrializing eastern seaboard provinces, which
also have significant rural sectors that are increasingly dependent on
long-term agricultural investments (e.g., rubber, quick growing forests and
fruit trees). Considerably more attention would also be devoted to land
valuation activities than was the case under the first-stage project.
5.2      These emphases would support  RTG's key development objectives and
trends in the economy over the  next  decade.   The Government has set as a
major  goal  for  the   1990s   the   reduction  of  inter-regional  income
disparities, with particular attention to the historically poorer northeast
region. Expanding and commercializing rainfed agriculture in this area will
be heavily dependent on success in removing the constraints posed by
insecurity of land tenure.    Securing  tenure  in the advanced areas would
have  both  employment  and  income   distribution  benefits,  as  well  as
substantial budgetary benefits for both central and local government.
Finally, as Thailand's economic boom fuels speculative pressure on land
prices (especially in Bangkok), it becomes increasingly important to
upgrade the quality of title issuance, provide more objective land
valuation and a standardized land information system.
Benefits
5.3      Project benefits are  derived  from  the  various 'outputs' of the
project (i.e. land titles, aerial photomaps, cadastral maps) and the
improved systems of land valuation and land information which can be
developed from them.   While  they  do  not lend themselves to conventional
rate of return (ERR) analysis, some of these benefits have been quantified.
The main thesis underlying this analysis is that agriculture in Thailand



- 23 -
has to move from the extensive to the intensive mode, and that increased
security of tenure is a critical precondition for effecting the needed land
and soil improvements. LTP was justified primarily on the basis of the
benefits expected to arise from the issuance of title deeds, i.e. the
security  of  tenure  which  would   lead   to:  (a)  increased  access  to
institutional credit; (b) increased input use and on-farm investments; (c)
higher productivity and beneficiary incomes; (d) improved land values; and
(e) reduction of land conflicts. Consequently, the choice of project areas
under LTP was determined by these factors (para. 5.1).
5.4      Socio-economic surveys2/ undertaken  in  1984  and 1987 (mainly in
the northeast and northern  provinces)  reached the following conclusions,
after netting out the differences in land quality, agro-climate and
government infrastructure support:
(a) Legal title is the most significant factor in explaining the
differences in land prices.
(b) Title-equivalent land was between 75Z-192Z more valuable than
undocumented land, and between 113Z-195Z more valuable than state
land occupied by squatters. Assuming that only about one-third of
the net increase in land values is attributable to "true" economic
benefits of the project, the improvement is still significant.
The reason for partially deflating the differential between titled
and untitled land values is that other distortions tend to be
reflected either in the overvaluation of titled land (e.g., credit
subsidy  effects)  and/or  in   the  undervaluation  of  the  non-
documented land below the value that can be attributable to true
enterprise risk (e.g., farmers' fear of eviction).
Cc) The greatest motivation for obtaining land title is the increased
access  to  institutional   credit.      Borrowers  providing  land
collateral received between 42Z to 1712 more institutional credit
than those without.
(d) For titled farmers (compared to those without such documents),
land ownership security increased the intensity of input use (by
8Z to 39Z), the rate of capital formation (56-105X), the rate of
landi improvements (29-702), and overall permanent productivity
(12-27Z).
(e) The direct costs of providing full title were equivalent to only
0.62 to 5.6Z of the market value of untitled land. The resulting
benefit/cost  ratios   of   providing   titles   to  occupants  of
2/ See: (i) Feder et al (1988), Land Policies and Farm Productivity in
Thailand, Johns Hopkins Press; and (ii) Chalamwong and Feder (1988),
"The Economic Implication of Land Documents in Rural Thailand",
Agriculture Administration and Extension 20, pp 123-133.



- 24 -
undocumented state land ranged from 4.5 to 12.0. Even if such
ratios were discounted by half, the benefits still substantially
outweigh the costs.   The proposed LTP II, by reducing the cost of
producing a typical title deed from B1,090 (as under LTP) to B525,
would in any case improve the benefit-cost ratios and also make
full cost recovery per title more affordable.
5.5      Another positive impact  of  the  issuance  of  land titles, which
cannot easily be quantified, relates to those benefits associated with the
dignity, security and sense of well-being derived from land ownership,
especially for occupants of formerly undocumented land. By the same token,
security of tenure reduces the incidence of land disputes. Finally, other
benefits that are difficult to quantify concern the price and land market
distortions posed  by  undocumented  lands.    Even  where informal markets
exist, transactions in such areas do not reflect the "true" market rate,
but rather are distorted by the insecurity of boundaries (para 5.4), and
such price distortions often bias the allocation of resources. These
transactions usually have higher costs than do those for documented lands.
5.6      Since the rate  of  issuance  of  land  titles  achieved under LTP
(200,000 per year) would be more than quadrupled under the proposed project
(900,000 per year), it is reasonable to assume that the incidence of the
associated benefits discussed above would increase similarly.
Fiscal Impact
5.7      Revenues. The fiscal impact  of  LTP  has  turned out to be larger
than expected, and would likely be even more important under the proposed
project. Land titling has emerged as one of the most cost effective means
of increasing the government budget without raising the unit rates of land
taxation and transfer. DOL collects revenues from transactions in the form
of transfer fees, a stamp duty, and an "income tax' (a form of capital
gains tax). The increase in collections is summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: TAX RECEIPTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LANDS
IN NINE LTP PROVINCES, 1984-88
Amount Collected             Index of Collections
1986    1987    1988   1989      1986   1987   1988   1989
(In current billion baht)        (In constant 1986 terms)
Transfer Fee          2.0     2.8     5.8    7.6       100    137    273   339
'Income Tax"          1.4     2.2     5.1    6.1       100    153    342   389
Stamp Duty            0.2     0.3     0.6    0.9       100    146    188   401
Total          3.6      5.3    11.5   14.6       100    144    300   362



- 25 -
Transfer fee collections, which had remained stable at about two billion
baht in 1984-86, were originally expected to remain at the 1986 level in
1987 and to increase by a further 102 in 1988; instead, collections in 1988
and 1989 increased by 173Z and 239?, respectively, in constant terms over
1986. The country's economic boom and the attendant speculation played an
important role, but when these effects were netted out in a comparison of
LTP areas with comparable non-LTP areas, the rate of increase in collection
amounts from pre-project years (average 1984-86) to project years (average
1987-89) were 14Z to 278? higher for LTP areas. Two main factors explain
LTP's superior revenue collection: (a) increased issuance of title deeds
resulting from improved technical support, expansion in branch offices and
improved organization and management; and (b) the adoption of more
realistic (higher) property values for taxation purposes.
5.8      Revenue collection by the Department of Land Administration (DOLA)
through   local   municipalities,   sanitary   districts   and   provincial
administrative offices has, however, been less impressive. This is because
the land-related local authority taxes (i.e. the land and building tax and
the local development tax) are not specific to titled holdings and, more
importantly, their rates and bases for assessment have not changed for at
least 12  years.    Although  they  are  supposed  to  be  based on "market
appraisals", in practice, (i) the land and building tax (more important for
municipalities and sanitary districts)  is  based  on rental value for 1978
instead of annually; and (ii) the local development tax is based on 1978
"land values" instead of the professed "medium price of land" every four
years. Under its Sixth Development Plan, RTG has emphasized greater local
government autonomy, along with decreased central budget transfers in favor
of greater reliance on  local  taxation.    Improved  land titling and land
valuation capabilities can have important benefits for local development
only if Government is willing to implement its regulations. However, local
authority taxes should be viewed in relation to other land-related taxes.
The USAID-financed study on property and land taxation (Annex 5, para. 14)
will address this issue.
5.9      By strengthening  CVA's  valuation  techniques  and  capability to
complete cadastres, the proposed project would ensure increased revenue
collections. Valuation on a consistent professional basis would reduce de
facto inequities arising from omissions and distortions in property tax
rolls. Since property taxes are progressive relative to many other taxes,
consistent valuation would also generate more revenues from those most able
to pay. Furthermore, since property tax revenue increased with economic
growth, it is an efficient means of financing the new services which such
growth requires. In addition to generating government revenue, accurate
valuation can serve as a disincentive to land ownership for speculative and
uneconomic  purposes,   the   extent   of   which   would   depend  on  the
progressiveness of property tax structure. Thus valuation would especially
affect the areas of greatest property wealth, which in Thailand are in the
form of urban real estate.   In  rural areas, proper property valuation and
taxation, when balanced with other forms of taxation, can also be used as a



- 26 -
tool to encourage agricultural production which most fully utilizes
available land, labor and capital.
5.10     Savings.    Substantial  government  savings  can  be  effected by
expanding the use of the new technology introduced under LTP to produce
more efficiently the technical outputs, such as survey controls, aerial
photography/maps and  cadastral  maps.    Previous  methods  were  far more
expensive and would have involved much heavier government investments.
Another source of substantial savings is likely to result from the
reduction and elimination of duplication among government agencies. The
pilot project to develop a Land Information System for Bangkok (para.
2.14). for instance, would reduce duplication in the production of; (a)
base maps among DOL, BMA, MEA. MWA and TOT; (b) road information among BMA,
MEA, MWA and TOT; (c) land use maps and building information between BMA
and DOL; and (d) waterway information between BMA and MWA. Reduction of
duplication through the use of DOL aerial photographs for the production of
base maps (assuming production costs to be shared by five agencies) would
have saved the City Planning Division of BMA alone B21.8 million in
1989190. The emphasis on Bangkok is justified by the fact that 50? of all
taxes and fees collected by DOL come from this metropolitan region.
Beneficiaries
5.11     An estimated  700,000  rural  landholding  families  would benefit
directly from  the  project.    While  comprehensive  data  on the relative
incomes of families with undocumented land is not available, perhaps as
many as 502 in the six northeast project provinces with a high incidence of
poverty districts would be below the absolute annual rural poverty level of
B4,400 or (US$173) per capita.   In  the more advanced areas covered by the
project (i.e., eastern seaboard provinces), improved security of tenure and
stability would support the growing industrial and service industries,
thereby providing employment to migrants from the poverty areas, especially
the northeast.
5.12     Women.  Some 12? of all rural landholders are women and they would
secure title through the normal project process. Since the proportion of
female landholders in urban areas is over 20?, even more women would
benefit from urban-oriented  components.    Because  women  already play an
active role in land transactions when they do have title, no special effort
would be needed to ensure their participation in the project. Women would
also benefit as staff members of DOL. More than one-third of all DOL staff
are women and 91 of the mid-level management positions are held by women.
5.13     Employment.  Under the project, some 500 additional permanent jobs
would be created within DOL, including 120 additional positions for trained
valuers in the CVA.   DOL  would  also employ some 300 additional temporary
workers in project areas for ground survey and title conversion. At the
local level, the project should help family labor to become more productive
through increased access to investment and credit.



- 27 -
Effect on the Environment
5.14     The Government  attaches  high  priority  to  forest and watershed
protection, and wildlife and biological conservation. Under LTP invasion
into vulnerable forest reserves has effectively been screened out in the
titling survey and issuance process (i.e. titles are not awarded for any
lands  in  the  area  of  forest  reserves).    Beyond  this,  there  is  a
presumption that land titling may actually make a positive environmental
contribution because it provides security and opens the way for more
intensive land use, and in that manner may reduce encroachment into forest
reserves by farmers who would otherwise resort to shifting cultivation.
However, establishing clear causal relationships is difficult (e.g.,
reductions  in  encroachment  might   be   attributed  to  project  titling
activities, but could also be a function of improved enforcement capability
by  RFD.   Under  the  Japan  Grant  Technical  Assistance Facility, a Land
Reform and Forest Conservation and Demarcation Study will be carried out
during 1990/91, and one of its objectives will be to examine the
encroachment issue, as well as to identify specific steps needed to
demarcate and protect conservation forests and vulnerable head watersheds.
Under the project, the environmental impact of land titling would be
monitored under ongoing socio-economic studies.
5.15     For the urban areas,  there would also be long-term environmental
benefits. The creation and strengthening of a parcel-based LIS under the
project provides one part of the institutional infrastructure required for
environmental impact assessment work.   A parcel-based LIS is essential for
site screening and enforcement of site development guidelines and should
ultimately facilitate the Government's ability to protect ecologically
vulnerable areas and to cope with social impacts such as resettlement. The
computerization of caveat records should also facilitate environmental
regulation and environmental improvements, affecting many areas such as
sewerage and accuisition of public parks.
Risks
5.16     The level of  risk  associated with  this  project  is  low.  The
various participating agencies all support the project and are committed to
its objectives. The technical innovations in the project have been tried,
some on a pilot basis, and would not present significant training problems.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)   promptly after adjudication in the project area, title deeds would
be issued to occupants of private land in accordance with the Land



- 28 -
Code and all land used for public purposes would be covered by
appropriate documents for State land (para. 2.10 (a));
(b)   DOL would submit a master plan  for the development of the Central
Valuation Authority to the Bank for review by October 1, 1991
(para. 2.15); and
(c)   DOL would submit final reports  on the Land Policy, Management and
Administration Study and the Socio-Economic Impact Study to the
Bank for review by February 1, 1994 (para. 2.19 (a) and (b)).
6.2      With the above assurances, the  proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million, repayable in 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
The Borrower would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



UAftAND
111to cosr SUk.O4AY
(But6 I000t                       (US$  0003                       I total
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .  . ...... ... ... ... ...  %   foreign   Base
Local     foreign    total         tocal   foreign   lota    fExehange    Co% a 
A. BASE CA0AS?Rat YAP
3. WNA.0  031310                                   28. 172.6  11.271 1    3%,443. 7   3,092.0    436 9  1. b28 B           24         2
2. 31110  C06361                                    68. 928.3  21.8611  I    80.833 4   2. 284. 0    848 3  3,132 3          27        6
3. A163*t PHIOTOGRAPHY                              29. 336.0  68.232 7    97.56 6 B 1. 337.1I 2.644 7  3.78i 7              to        6
4. AlR0IR3ANGUAtION                                   3. 172.0   4.631 9     6,803. 9      46.4    179.6    225 0            80        0
6  PN60203AP PAOOCTII0I                             26.764.8  37.93389    63,688.6        998 2  3,470.3  2.468 6            6.)       4
6. PRINTING0                                          3,282.6   2,399. 4     3.662.0       48.9    113.0    141.9           68         0
7. TECNNICAI CO3PUIING S RAP tVUANSFORNAIION         10, 38  6   7.798 B    37.988 2      394 9    302.3    697 2           4 
Sell-total BASE CADASIRAt NAP                         164. 836. 7 154, 36  7   308,968.4   6. 000. 6  6.274 9 11. 976 6         so        I9
B. GROUND6 SIuRVEW  IEAIS                                                                                                                                                     I
1. 3694 ASJUOICAItON                               633,484.7  43.232 3   676.737 0  24,663.7  1.676 7 26.229 3               6        413%
2  36St ASJ3ICA113ON                                  7,310.8                7,310.6      283.4         -   283 4                      0 
Subll-ota) 690366 SURVEY lEAN1S                       640. 796.3  43.232 3   684,027.6  24.827 0  3.676 7 26.632 1               6       41
C  oBn" NAPPING                                         63. 633 6  19. 882.9    73, 476.6S  2.078 0    789.9  2.847 9           27         4
0. LAND AONINISI3lAI ION
I EIIANGAI 83 A0333161*   ADOINISIRAII(N            91,866.4  20,367.6   118,234.0   3, 793. 3    789 4  4.58? 7             I?        7
2  LAND AI3NINSIRATION B*330360                      3.877.1 3 3,147.8       6,024.9      360. 3     44.6    394 8           fl         0
3.  MR3 DOCIINENI CONVERSION6                      178.,090.8   4. 6S3 2   382,743.9   6,902.7    I80 3  7,083.0              3        II
4. tAND 3NFOMINION SYSIENS                           4,196.3   2.81616       7,068.6      162.86    30. 9    27365           41        0
Subll-otal 1*36 AONINISIRATIOUI                       284,029.3  29.028 1   3133,067.4  33.008 9  3, 326 1 32.1334 0             9        19
E. IN151339310N 813118310
I. SUPPLY DIVISIOII                                  3, 333.4     781.2      3,9146       3 21 4    30.3    363t.7          20         0
2. PEUSONNEL AORININSIAAtION                           829.3                   8129 3      32 1               32 3                     0
3. POlCy AND PLANNING                                 1,392.2      68 3      3,460.        54 0       2 6     66 6            6        0
4. AOKIIIUISIRAI(ON CONPUI3NG                        4,984.2   4.2S4 8       9,239.0      193. 2    384 2    368.3          48 
6. PuBLIC EDU3CATION                                  1,666.7     392.4      2.069. 3      64.6      3s 2      79.8          Is        0
6  EDUCAtION                                         8,696.9   2,282 0    10.977,9        337.0      886S    4266S           23         3
7. liRAINING                                         8,498.6      373.0      8,6731.65    329.4       6.7    338.1            2 
8. 3113636C0t ASSISTANCE                             6, 793.31 134.1397.4   139,990.65    224 6  6.201 6  6.425.0           98         8
9  SOcto - ECONONIC STUDIES                         30,800.0           -    10,800.0      41386         -    41$ 6                     I
30. LAND IIilSIN  PUOJECT OFFICE                    10.021. 3     403.8    30, 424.9      388.4      36. 7    404.13         4         I
Sebll-otal INStIItUtIN StIBLOING                       65,814.3 342,663.0   398,367.3   2,3863.3  6,6526.3  7,688. 7            12       32
7. VALIUAlION
I. 8*133A110N                                       74.026 7  30,643.2    84,669. 9   2,869. 3    408.7  3.277 9            12         6                      0C"
2. MAOUTION EDU3CATION                               3,042.0      20.8       3,247.8      317.        8.0    32S.9           8         0                       1
Sill-tota  VAIIiSiIIII                                 77,68.   10. 149.0*   81,81??.  2,987. 2    416.6  3,403.81             32         6                       ,   ..
total BASEiIISE COSIS                                 1.268.336.9 399,%61.8 3 .666.734.9  49,07S.3 36,487.6S 64.b66  6           24       300
PlwsicaI Contoeeegeueee                                it. 309. 9   8,889.4    26,7.it.4    663.2    336 0    9919 2          34         2
Pr see Cont ingence,,W 32038.3  30,402.0   192,420. 2   6.279 8  1.718 4  7.46*1 I                                            36        12
Total P10.3CC Costs                                   I.44S.264 9 438,649 6 3. 813. 914.  S6. 66038.0 17,003. 9 73,039.9         23       133
U.,..t   QA  OAA  . 4.   . . . . .      . . . . .     ..    . . . .    . . .   . .



IHRANDS
SHCNLAND7MJN0IiC1ff
Pjjo  Qomp       by amr
Totals Including Conltingencieso                     lotals Includong Contlngmlces
(BANI '0002                                          ( 111 000I
2992      2992       1993       2994      Iota)          1991     1992      1993      1994    total
A  BASE CADASIRAI MAP
I wAJaa CONIROL                                    B.5b6S 4  1S, 251 9   9.439.?  10.466 3    44,623.3       332 0     626 0    366 9    409) 7  1.?29 6
2  MNIOR CONIROI                                   1i.813 6  36.659.?  18.b3 1 220.494.2    91.498 6          65  7  1.382 2    728 3    794 4   3.546 5
3. AERIAL PNOIOGRAPHIT                            40.365. 6  3t.08a.8  40.879 0           -   112.313.3   1.564 612,205 01.684 6                  4. 3%4 0
4.~ AIROtRIANGUIAIION                               1. 518 3   1.592 9   1. 611 I 1 1753 3       6.535 6       soa8     61.?      64 A      68.0    353 3
5  PNOtONA  P8UCttION                              12. 683 I  29. 500.3  14. 727 9  IS, 455 8    72. 367. 6   491 6   . 043 4    570 8    599 I 2. 804 9
6. PRINtING                                        2. 222.?7    589.7      6185       649 4      4, 080.7      862      229       24 0      257 2    i8 2
7  I(CNNICAt CONPUllNG A NAP FRANSFORNAIION        4.739.2   4.936 9   5.181 4 56,438 0    20,295 4           183 7     1*914    2008a    7108    756 6
Sub total BASE CASASIRAL NAP                         86. 908 5 119.520 0  91, 049. 0  54,257.0   351. 734 5   3.368 6  4.632 6  3. 529 0  2.1203 0123. 633 1
6. GROIIIO SURIVEY IEANS
I. NS4 ADJUDICAT ION                             182. 851 I 219. 130 9 179, 179.3 288. 093 2   769. 254 6   7,087 3  8,493 4  6.944 S  7.290 4 29. atS 2
2. NSI AD.JUDICA1ION                                2. 912 7   2.008 3   2.108 7   2.214 2       8.243 9       74.1     71a 8     at 7      as 8    31 to5
Sub total GROUND SURVET lEANS                        184. 763 8 222. 139 2 181. 288. 0 290. 307 4   777. 498 4   7.151 4  8.571 3  7.026 7  7.376 3  0. l35 6
C  URBAN NAPPING                                      20.011 6  19.349 5  17.232 6  26,642.2    83.235.?         7756      T7W0.    667 9  1.0326  3.286 2
o  LAND ADNINISIIlAI ION
I. LIANONAI A AIIP IIR  AND ADIIINISIRA1IMI       29.4560  37,972. 7  27.060 4  61.7936    2 46.281 7         5       .78 20492352569 
2LAND ADNINISIAAI2ON BANGKOK                      1.343 7   1, 392. 8   2.462 0   1.534 8      5,733 3       52. 2    54 0      S6 7      59 53   2222
3  WA3 DOC2INNI CONVERSION                        47. 80t. 9  50. 190. 4  52.698 4  55. 444 I   206. 134.8   1826 .954 .026. 49 0 .89 g
4. LAND INIORNAIION SYSIENS           ~~~~~2.2598&  2.147 4   2.343 3   2,281.4    8,031.9        87 6     832       908a      497    321 3
Sub total IAND AINIINIStRAIIoN                       70.860 4  91.703 4  83.664 2 220,053.8   366. 282 7   2.746 5  3.554 4  3.238 91 4.65 f:2 14. 193. 2
I  INSIIIUIfIONt BUILtING
I  SUPPLy DIVISION                                 1,435.0      918 7   2.0002 2.050 0          4,403.9       56 6      35 6      38 8     407    ITO07
2  PERSONNEL AENIINISIRAIION                          2t7 0     227 a      239 2      252 2        935 2        8 4       aa 8     43        237     38 2
3  POlICY AND PLANNING                               386 4      400 1      42021      441 1      2.646 7       14.9      is5      16 3      I71      63 8
4  ADI2INISIRAIION CONPuJING                       2.428 9   2.549 I  2.662 8   2,781.6    10.422 4            94 1     98a8   103 2    207a8   404 0
5. PUBLIC EDUCAIION                                   538 6     565 4      593 6      623.1      2.320 8       20 9     219       23 0      242      90 0
6. IPucAIION                                       5.2II7,1   2.278 I  2.392 0 2 2,6 1. 6    22.299 0         298.3     83        92 7      97 4    416 7
7. TRAINING                                        2.21986   3,102.2   2. 820 7 2.66128         9.783 3       852    2202         705      2 032    379 2
8  IECIINICAt ASSISIANCE                          44,354 9  39, 843. 5  32,008 725.29789  140.504 8   1.729 2  2. 544 31. 702 9    9805S .445 9
9. socio   ICONonic SIUDIEiS                                    466 7   9,8667I    466.7    2080.go.0                    28 I    382 4      IsI2   4)86
10. LAND tIlLING PROJECt OEEiCE                    2, 721.1t  2, 886. 9   2,999 7 3.149 S    to,757. 2       1056S     III9    21863    1222        457I
Sub total INSIIIIIIION BUIlDING                      69, 396. 6  %3.238 6  53.003 7  39,234.4   204,873.2   2.302 2  2 OHJ. 5  2. 04 4  2,520. 7  7.940 8
I VALUATION
2. VAIUAIION                                      16.824 9  23.645 8  26.423 5  29,847.4    96,732. 6        651 7     9265 S2.024 2  1 *56 93.749 3
2. VALUAtION LOIICATION                              927.4      886b.8     909.9      965.4     3,659.3        35.9     33.6      35 3     .37 0    141 8
Sub-total VAIUAIION                                   27, 742. 3  24.512 4  27,333.4  30,802.8   200,390.9       687 7I   950 I1.059 4  2. 293 9  3.491 I
.... .... .... .... .... . I.   ... ....   ...........  ........    ........  .... ...   ~ . ; Z :
Watch 20, 2990 08. 59



SUtIARY AUNU 0338T SUMMAfY
(8ltttl  0001                         IoSS  0001                            S total
*-----------------------------...  ----------------------  -                  foreign    Base
local       foreign       lotal         Local    Foreign    10tal         fxcharge       Costs
1. INWISINEUI COStS
. ...... ........ ....
A. 8W11t106S                             138297 0   15.307 a    1S3.604 8    5.360 3           593 3  5.953 7               10           9
B  EQUIPtl2N2                             12. 268. I  69. 458.2      81 726 3        475 5  2.69? 2  3. 167 7                85           5
C. VEHICltS                                9,385 6   5.041. 1         14.426 7       363 8       19   4    559 2            35           I
0. AERIAt PNOIOCRAP1IY                    29. 336 0  68. 232 7       97. 568 6    1. 137 1   . 644 7  3. 781 7               70           6
I  fURNIIOURE                             15456.7        810 4       16.267 t         99 t       3t 4      630 5             5           I
I. tOCAt COttSUtIANCY                        g79.2             -         979.2        38 0                   38.0                        0
6  fORtIGN CONSUIIANCY                             - 106.562 I   106.562 1                 -  4.130 3  4.130 3              tOO           6
N  SOCIO    tCONOMItC STUDIES             10.800 0                    10.800 0       418 6                  418 6                         t
1. l.qAININIG  IOVERSEASI                             26.808.2       26.808 2                 1.039. I  1,039 I             100          2
J   IRAINING  I(OCAil                     29. 349 7                   19. 349 7      750 0                  750 0                         I
......  .....- .   ..  ...    .  .....   .........   . . ...... . ....... .........     . . . ...... .......   .  ...
10142  IIVIESIINI COS)S                     235.872.3292.220 4    528.092 7   9.142 3 t).32b 4 20.4btt 7                         S5         32
II IRIItRttlINI t:tl.15
A  SAtAkll'                             143. 114 7                 143, tt4 7   S.S47  1                5.547  t                        9
8  Ril %At t:COS1I7P0                  506.516 2                   506,516 2  19.632 4                 19.632.4                        30                                                                              1
C   IIAVii Alt                           26.742 3  25.064 9         42.607 2        648 9      971 5   1.620.4              60          3
0  OtIICE RIlNtI                          t 9695 1,969 5                             76.3           -      76 3                        0
t  "AP  AIHARIAI                         34, 569 0  34. 445.6       69, 014.6    1.339 9   1. 33S. I  2. 675.0              SO          4
I  OlNtR HAIIRIAl                       253,394 0                  253.394 0   9.621 5               -  9.821 5                         2S
6  YiNlttE  08$                          16.322 4   16.266 3        32,58S 7        632 6       630 5   1.263. 1            50          2
H. EOUltP8I2tt  0Ut                       6.497 6  25.920 4         32.418 1        251 8   1.004 7   1.256 5               80          2
1  HISC. OPERAIIDtt COSI                 5t1.138      5.660 3       56 799.       1. 982 t    219 4  2,201. 5               tO          3
total RECURREMI COSIS                     1.030.264 6 107.357 6 1. 137.,22.2   39.932 7  4. 161. 1 44.093 9                       9         68
total BASECIINE COSIS                       1. 266, 136 9 399.578 0  1. 665. 714 9  49. 075. t IS 487.5 64.562 6                  24        100
Physical Contingewtes                      17, 209.9    8.669 4       25.779 4         663 2      336.0      999.2            34           2
Price Contingencies                       162.018. 1  30.402 0    192.420 2    6,279 8   1. 178.4  7.458.1                     16         12
.. - -    - -   - -   - - -   -   -   - - - - -   - -   -   -   - - -   - - -   - - -   - -   - - - - -   .. .    . .   ... .... ..... .......  ....
total PROJECl COSTS                        1.445.264 9 438,649.5  1.883.914.5  56.0180 17,001 9 73.019 9                          23        113
.......... ............  .............................    ........................ ................................................. ..^...... .. ...... .........
Rarch 20. I99O 08 59



1VAANDA
sr - ) nm  yTo
lotals  lcIudin  Conthigencles                               lotIls Ificludeng Contingenctes
186ttI '000)                                                  (US$ '0001
...   .. ..     ..     .    .... ...........   .  ........ . .. . ..     .   .   .... .......... .. ....... .... 
199t        1992        1993         t994        total           S991       1992       1993        994      hotIt
I. IItESlhENt  COSTS
A. 8U2l1i0CS                           54.034.1  72. 236.6   18. 603.3   42. 922 7    187. 96 6   2.094 3  2. 799 9               721 t  1.663 7  7.774 9
B. EOttPltttt                           17. 294.4  54 455.7   O. 155. 6   12. 974.0        94. 879.8        670 3  2. 110. 7      393 6      i02 9  3,677.5
C. VENICIES                             10.596 8    4, 260 3        3599        898 4       16.075. S       410.7      165.1       14 0       33 3      623  1
0. AtRIlAt PROIOGRLPttY                40.36S.6  31088.8  40.879.0                  -    112 333.3    1.564 6   1.205 0   I.594.S                -  4.354 0
E  f)tIItiUR1                           4. 091.7    5.028.5    3.474 7   6.760.7           19.355 7        158.6      1949       134 7      262.0      70 2
t  IOCAt COUSUlItANC                       244.8       244.8        244 8       2448           979.2          9.S        9 5        9 5        9 5       38 0
CfOREICtt CONSUIIBNCY                  34.742.1   31.789g6  22. 899 4   17.130 4    106,562.1    1.346.6   1.232.2                87 6       664 0  4, 130 3
H. SOCIO - tCOltNII: SlUDlfS                    -      466.7    9.866.7         466 7       10,800.0                    IS I      382 4        is 1    41S 6
1. T1RA1114  IOVfRSEAS4                  6.702.0    6.702 0   6.702 0    6,702.0           26.808.2        259 8       2S9 6      259 8      259 8   1.039 t
J. IRAINNO ItOAOCUI                      4,699.3    6.006 1   5.061.9    6.065. 1    21.S32.4               162.1      232 S      196.2      23A 1      846 2
--     -----   ------ --     ---- ----     --- -  --     - - -------  ------- -------   ------ -  ....   ..   ......
lotal IMVISREINI COSIS                    172.771 4 212.279  1 I18247 S  94, 124. 9   597,422.8    6.6966   8.227 9  4.,93.2  3.648.3 23.15599
it. RtCURRitl CtSIS
A   SAIARIIS                          29.992 3  39.977.8   44.281t.6  48.090 1    162,341.8    1, 62.9   1.549 9   1,716.3   1.U64 0  6.292  1
B. REI.SAI. COS/SIPO                 119,793.4  140.334.9  149. 104.4 163.681.3   572.914  1   4.643.2  5.439 3  9.779.2   6.344 2 22.205 0
C. IR4Ytl Att                         10.251.6   11.450.2   11,941 7  13.515 S            47,I99.0        397 3      4438       462 9       523 9   1.627 9
OlIfCE  REtt                             942.4       660 7       502.3        902.3       2.207.7         21.0        259        19.S       19         8 95 6
E  MAP lUIER14t                       18.954 9   IA717.8   18, 191.S   21.818.2           77.682.4        734 7      725 5      705 I       J49.7   3.0t  9
t. 1OtlR tt3tR14t                     58,120 9  71,680.6  74.729.9  82,206 3   286.737.6    2.252.7   2,778.3  2.896 5  3.186 3 11, 1139
G. VEHICIE O8                         7 978. 2   9. 323. 6   9 227.5   10 221.4          36. 790. 7      309. 2     361.4       357. 7     396 2   1, 424.4
tt   QUtIpIIINl Om                     7, 723. 0    9.077 1  10.426 8    9. 292. 6       36. Si9. 9      299 3       391. 8     404. 1    360.2   1. 41t. S
1. NISC  OPtRAIION COS0               13,999.2   15.961.4   16.817.5   17.844.8           64. 178.6       525.4      616.7      65t 8      691 7  2.487 6
......... ........... ......... ...........  ....................  ....  ............ ............. ... ........... ........  .......... .......... .......... ...
total 3(CtRINtI COSIS                     266,911 8 3t?7.tU.0 335.223.3 367. 172.5  1.286.491.6   10.345 4 12.294.0  12.993 2 14. 231 5 49.84.0
total PROJICl COStS                        439,663.2 "21.463 1 453,470 8 461.297.4  I.8 83.914.5   17,042.0 20,921.8  17,.76 4  7. 879 7 73,01R q
::::::::::~~~      ..::::::    ::::: ::::::::               .......::   Z.:::   ;,,:-::: ..:::::: . :. - -- -- 4:t..:
................      - ........................................................................ .................................................. ................... .......... w 
Neoch 20. 1990  08:99                                                                                                                                                                                  g1
tD '



80WM0LANDm
k7 NDANOTM 6          RDEC
A3m- ym-o
6906 6011966 Nap9                                                                                                  IU0 989196169*1109
IN96ST*791 c0sts
a  otIIeOIGS.                                                                            O                                    70.0600                                     1.22
8 Q  64469669                  5.801 6  14. 8091                            90 9S  166.0 $-     6.   0            640 3       16.086 9                 6.S69 4           811.0665I        6. In0 6
cWHIMS01                                                                                                                        4,468 a                 2.17 67            i.67 I
I  109913568                                                                           6.066 1                       32 1       1.301 9                   455 3           10 60 a
I local C09S66i6916C2
o   ouIoIGN Cwssoto,mi.                                                                                                                                                             
.3  19666116  ttOE%%t          i1.23 9                                                           
flola  t991S69696 COSTS             7.04S5 0    So.l0  9  97. 68 6               90 9    17. 46? I   1.5110            622 4      91.918 I                 4 762 0           t07. II is        1.280 6
66  9916999t MISl
*S818111S                     8. 260 8  15.228 9                                          .          .se  o4                                      -   .90
a. af1 Sal C012/6790           1 1. 6103  32.467 6                                      259 7     7061             4976      206.0800              - 28.199 4             2.007             205
  79*99  66t                     6806   6.026 9                                                                              20.668 4             -    .80                     -            49
0  OfftIFNI 806.                                ..  g.98  0
1  MP6 66621M6                  2.046 2   2.482 1                                    42.001 I i                                                       l. 0700s
6  0696  9*668186               8269    1.46t1                             toa696       66                     7.500        682.074 0      7. 3606   6.70612             A.6603          2.81394a
6V696ic10Ga                   S.20"24   7. 200                                .                                  4990 It      .29"1                  9,648?1
oi 69616966696086               6.83SIX   6 .0331                        0S,6994      2.802 8   6.2J922 7         .766 2 
6 66SC. 0OP9*6663 016                                                                                                      44. I"9 9                  10286
Wlas 96099969  026s              32.148 I 66.0006                            S.12610    45.7226 3  2.149 0         61.360 0S 84.799 9           7. 3606  68.268 0           It. its8S        3744 3       6
6ota696 88169  COIlS               39. 443 7 6O..8624     97.0S"6             0.80329    62,9886   3.ast20           67.968?     676, 767t0       2. 3606  23.4760           676.234 0         S. 92C9      6
Phy,sc.l Contl4npofee              29006     740 4      4.878 4                4S        906 0       708              326        8, 096 4            .     ASg              9 .442?            94 a
Prot* Coolntisoc9"               4.889"    9 .944 9     9.986 3              727 6      ,778 I    343 6            2.223 6      84,446 t         9333   9.6S21 6           6e.80o4            644 4
1.166 9504C7 COSTS                 44.623 1 93. 4966    162.213 3             5 6.310    11,147 6   4.980 7          29.290 4     269. 204 S      6.243 9 83.125 2           146.21661         5 .712 1     2
fo*g  laclwog.                  67.864 6 24.900 8      is.068l 4           S. ?64 2   432 60 I  2. 6813 9          6.680 4      495860 4                22.464 7           24.892 I         6 30? 3
Itorc, 20. 6990 08. Se



txo ro         wt      ISME         aiyAOaqvsntoPRMfCNCt   (COSONCl  28260 11122260                                                                             mt........
*  .  .  .           -         -          -        .                                  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 1.3. 3  2.60  S   0 0 IS. SU. 5
2. M..?        -                                     340. a             2.685 2    181 4       411.0         -          480   2, 235. 9     92. 9     t8,15.323  5 0  4.0M. 0
5flg9                                         .                                    . 200 0       -                 3.724.0               1 4.42$   486   662. 3 
*  .  -         .         .          .        .                    .            .          .         .               5*  48784~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  U.5S.a  .11 
29.2          -                       3.9               -                         377.2 I                            42 9    2.0438 a               626'1  S0    8 13 4 
97`92        -.                      -977I  0 4                         0.0
*  .                          .                    -        -  20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ls 6.2.2    -               20L 6.5. 1  0. 0   0.0
*  -  -     - 2            *          -         .         .          - ~~~~~~~~~~                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~10,800.0  .    0.8S"0a  0.0  0 0
28,808.2                                                W5.SU82   0 0      00a
-       - ~~~~~~~~~-           207.3         -     .292. 8 I 812229                                      1    .492.?           29. 34.?1  0.0    0.0
1.0%f. a    S41R 2                      3 9          548 2              to. 932.9  S.672.5  235.960.5  20.8000         6687   It.,309.6     92,9   S281.0?.?7  4.9 25,77n. 4
*   -       -              215. 2                                                                                  Is  .-2. 61*.5 S       43. 114 1  0 0     0.0
6.8.        195.          82.3i                      331.?7    $19. 3         .2,786.4                              7.8 no I 8.405. 2              506 516. 2  0.0      @0 
289.4    248. 0-                        ..                        .         .                                       634.9                          438771   0 0       0.0
-  .  .  .     .          .         .         .          .                      .         .          .      2.90.8  0.0       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 N.   00   
-  -  .  .           .         .          .        .           .        .             .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.3408   0,9214.8  0.90  0.0
2,454.3  2,073.2                      491.6        3.400 0      82.9          -         -      03.4                 2,073.2  22.08       2,881 $2.5S   253,3940  8 0    06.0
ON8. 9                                              206.9                               .        ..                  320 7               32. W3?   0.0      0 0
371.9        ,.                                  4,999.2      20.6IT                                                          .289. I              32.428 1  0.0      0 0
683.9                   2,t.243.4                .       58.3                           S.2211     2,1272.4    St 799. I  0.0    0.0
3,2999.8   3,345.0         829.3    145.6 AS85.620 9   2,959.1                -         -    4,030.1                20,356.2  13.2M03    3.154.9  1.237.822 2   0.0     a00
7, 056. 5   3,1. l 5       829.3    2,480.5S       9,239.0   2,5.2O     20, 977. 9  S,671.5   2 39, 990.5S  20,800.0  10,424. 984,569.9   3,241.8  1.665,714.9  2. 5 251778.4
I2528     288               -         0. 2          270                 1 34. 3   27.9           .         -3.3               58I.5S       4.86    25,329. 4  90.     0. 0
822.5    468.9           205.9      185 9         2.268 3     262.6   2,2896.86  2,083.9     524.3                 2,329.0  22.580 2     406.8   292,430.2  2.4 2,779.8
8,032.9  4,403.9           935.2I    2.646,.?      20,422.4   232.8".9 II 2,29. 0  9,783.3  140,504.8  20,800.0    22,75.T.2  96,73V. 6   3,654.3  2.8113.914.5   6.5 28,550.2
833,3    550. 8              .       93.5          701.0      144.2     353.?      53.?7     567.5                  349.2   5.09? 6      "2. 3    93.033 0   3.2 2,934.0
3,283.3    871 4               -       78.9        4.800.3      441.3   2,504.9    292. 1234.204.?                    454 9   It.0M. 9     2293   438,49. 5   2. 2 9.553 0            -
...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ..... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .....



78UA1A
s8t - by uc Af
MISIRAI IAN
NTERNATl ONAt
DEVELOFMtl
tsRt        ASS1ISTACE 81)30    Govetio       nt          lotal
.....  ................   ... .  ..    .- . .  Local d1c4.  oMtte  S
A4iul3     I       bowt          I        _lqani    I      Aomnt    I    for. Exeah           tax"         tIe&.
a. Iuwsimtmt costs
A. ButlOI#GS                         6. 387. I  as.0            *         -   1.01 8  is.0   7.278.9   10               723 9         6.827 I        m7  9
8. E1UIftPEtt                        2.350.0  64 7           11.2      0 3   1.2863 s3.0    3.677.5   s.0             3.12S 2            tto.0      441.3
C. VEICtlES                            374.8  GO 0          30.2       4. 9   , 218    3 n0        623.t   0 9          217 6           187 4       2)8 t                                                     I
0. AERIAt PIIOIOGRA9It1              3.047 8  70.0              -         -   C.306.2  300    4.354 0   6 0          3,043.4          t.600  9      364.8                                                     w
E. ftIUIN RE                           487.6  6. 0              *               2       6  3s.0    760.2    t.0          37.3           660 4        62.6
f. LocAt CoUSI3LIAlICY                          -           3.0 o     00.0           - *    -        80 0o                               38 o
GI fOREICl CONSttlItCIY                                  4,130.3    1000                         4.130 3 s. 7        4,.30 3                 -
N  s0cto - EtOSIlC SIUBIES             439 6 1000               -         -          *      -      4ts.6    0.6              -          4ts.6
I  3*131it  (tOIERSEAS)                     -            1.039 t   too o0                        .039  t       4 *     .039  t
J.  tRAINING ItOCAtl                               -            -        -      646.2 300.0        646 2    1.2              -          646 2
....................  ...........  ..... -.....  ........_._  .... .... __________. .........  .......... ........... ...............  ........
lotal ItNESttttt COSIS                 t2.99s     9  ss 7    S.248 7    22 7   S.031 2  21.6  23. Iss.9  31.7           t2.316 a          .094 6    1.`44 6
it. REC8IREtNt COSIS
..... ....  ___..   _  .
A  SAlARIES                         t.352 s  2t.6              -        -   4939.8  78.5   6.292 3   88                    -        6.292 3
8  RELLSAL COSU/SIPO                7.919 9  36.7              *            14.286. 1  64.3  22. 206.0  30.4                       22.206.0
C. IRAVEL A4l                         t25 2  39 7              -        -   1. 102.?  60.3    3 ,27.9   ^ s         t,095.3            276.6      45? 0
0. OflCE RENT                          40 3  47.1 t                             453s   2.9        8a.6   0                 -            a  6
1. RAP NA6I)RII                     t.3283  44 *                             1 *.682   6 s.9   3,oto 0     4.1       1,So0. 0        I.29 92      210 8
, OttNR tAtER3 tl                   3,762.4  33.9              -        *   7.351.s  66.Wt  1t.t t3       1  2             -         o.3033.9     778.0
C. VENICIE 083                        64) 8  45 I              *        *      782 7   4.9   t.424.4   2.0             70 2            s7t.8       142.4
N. EO.U3PISEN3 ON*3                   443.7  31.3              -        -      971.s  68.7    1. 4S.        .  1.s  t  31.4             850        99 I
1. tISC. oItERAII3N COST             0130   367                        -    .674 6  63.3   2.487 G   3 4             247 3         2.066 t       174 t
.......    .... .....         ........... .......... .   ......  .... ... .    .. ..  . . ..... .... ..... .......... ....... ... ..
total REC8RREtNI  OSIS                 tt. 327.2  34.3             -         .  32.736 8  65. t49, 84.0 808. 3           4. us6    2    43.337 s   3,863.4
total Ovab.tnt                          30 023. 1  4L. t    5.248.7        7 2  37. 748 1  S6t.   73, 8o9.9 300.0        17.00o.9        s2.4t2 t   3. 605.9
- .....       -t         . ..t   ....      ..:  .;...  s..s;... C....  .s. sI--                             ....l.
a . .2.0.. ........ ............................. .......................... ..................................................
ftrttt  20. 19s    08: 59                                                                                                                                                                               4



P1c4 PS P   by P4m  Cmina
AUSTRAI IAN1
0EV(IOPNlr
9690           BURI Au        Coyarrumen           Total
..    .... ....  . ......   ...  ...  ..    -  ... ..    .    .local    thoc  Ouat us   *
bmui       I Aowtl    I  h,aunI     I      Amou         ntl  I       fwl    or  .  ch  laootI      taxes
A, 1AS* CA08AS1181 NAP
1  NAJOR CONIROI                                      835 I  48 3                        894 S  ST 7    .729 6   24           496 7         1.151 B       STI
2  111101 coNtROL                                  1.89    0                          .783  496         .546 5 49            9673         7.387 3       IS91
3  AERIAL PNOIOG8APNIY                              3.04789  70 0                      1.3062  30 0   4.354 0   60           3.043 4        1.005 9      304 8
4  AFROIRIANSUIAIIO1N                                 120 0  47 4                        133 3  52 6       253 3 0 3           2021             2 3 3      17 9
S  PIIoIONAP  MRODICTIIN                            1.456  I  52 3                     1.338 9  4?.7   2.804 9   38          1.674 0          89? 4      2335
6  PRINIIING                                           880  54 4                          72 2  45 6       158 2 02            1033            4292        120
7  ItCl)NICAI COIIPIIING A NAP IRAIISIORIIAIIOI       375 9  47 8                        410 8  52 2       786 6   I           341 2          369 8       55 7
S.4b blat R8At CADASIRAI NAP                           7.7tg 9  56 6                      S.9f4 2  43.4  13. 633 1IS1 7         6.827 8        b.908 4       696 9
II  09116  ',iIIVI'l 11IAW1
I  M%4 6l)J1101811111                              is. 42? I  SI 7                   14.389 0  48 3  29.816 I  40 8         1.920 9       26.516 4    1. 3?8 7 
2  MI Ab.IIIDICAIIU                                   ISO 504  4? I                      169 I 152 2      319 5   0 4                         29? 2       22 4
Sub~ Iotal 0110111 SURVEY? 111A1S                     15.577 5  51 7                     I4.5S8 I  48 3  30. 135 6  41 3        1.920 9       26.6)33 6   1.401 I
C  11R8811MAPPIN1G                                     1.556 4  48.2                      1.6898  59 8   3.226 2   44             8686         2.122 6       2346
0  LAND0 881IN1S1R81IION
I  CIIA11GNAI8ANPIIR IAN0 AIINI1StRATION          4,59 9  73 4                       1.5100  26 6   5.6696    7 8            9649          4. 1455      5595
2. L8Nho8DINISIRAtio11BJUOGIOIL                        38I  17 I                         184 1  82.9      322.2   03           52 4           151 2        166
3. MN3 DOCOINENI CONVERSION                            3687   0 5               .     7.95t 0  995S   7.969.?  109            205 4         7.6308a      1535
4  LAND0 1N1011118111  ShuSio                          88.4  28 4                        222 9  79 6      311 3   0 4          127J 3         955         24 5
Sub-Eotal LAND0 A0NINISTRATION6                        4.325 I 30.5                       9.868 0  69 5   14. 193.1  19. 4      9. 350 0      92.086 9       756. 2
I INSIItIIIIOII BUltDING
I  SUPPLY DIVISION                                     IS 7   9 2                        155 0  90.8      I70 7   02           34 0           115 3       21 3
2  PE(RS0INUE  88INISIRAIION                               .                              36 2 t00 0        36 2   00                          36 2
3  POLICY ANO PIANNING                                  5.8   9 0                         58 1  91 0       638 a 01              3 0           5t72        36
4. AORNIlSrRAf ION CO I'1iI11O                        10.1   2.5                        393 9  97 5      404 0 06             186 I          190 5       274
S  PuBtIC IDIUCAIION                                       .                              90 0 100.0       90 0   0             17 I           67 3        5 6
6  I tICAI ION                                         743  15 6                         402.4  84 4      476 7 0?              97)1          365 9       137
7  tRAINING                                            15    4 1                        363 5  95 9       3792.2 05              7 5          369? 7        )
8  IECII1ICA( ASSISIANCE                                   .         5.248 79264         997 2   3 6   5.44592   75         5.20171           222 2       220
9  SOCIo   E COIIOIIC 571101(5                        4986 1too0                                          4ti8 6   0. 6                       418 6
90. (811D TITLING PROJECI OFFICE                        2. 0   0. 4                     453.7  99.6       455.7   0 6          17 6          424 5        13 5
Sub-1ola1 INSTIIUIION 81JI1016G                          542 t   6 8   5.248 7 68 I   2.150 0  27 9   7, 940.8 90 9            5.564 9         2.26? 5      909 3
O. VAlUATION                                          300 6   8. 0                    3.448 7  92 0   3,745 3   59I           46)5         3. 0902       to?6
2. 58(91A110N EDUCATION                                 2 6   I 8                        139. 3  98 2      14f98   0 2           8 9          122 8       90 I
S%bhIolul V8EIIAIION                                     303 I   7, 8                     3, 588.,0  92. 2   3, 891 I   5 3       470 4        3.213 I      2017
t0tal Disursemeint                                      30.023 I  41 I   5.248 7  7 2  377148.1t SI.? 713. 019.9 100 0           17, 001 9      52.412 I   3. 605 9
.. .   .. .. ..5 . t. S . .... .     ..  .......:     ................ I..:: ... . . .   .  . .   .  
Narchs 20. 1990  08 59



-    fRh: by Iliimia
*sssina 80*U       ovesmn
AVwRtI    Ibom
DEVEMMRENII
IE"        ASSIS1SCE EM"tt   Govenmnt               total
------------  --------------  --------------- -- ...........              txcal IExcl.  Dt0 
Amun      2      Amut         II      1n      I      Amount    I    for. Exch.      taxes#      lases
--- --- - 5- -                            a s                   zza-z- --.==----      Z=      : - 
C.1fINGS                         a. ii.1 8l.0            -            1.091.8  lb .0  7.278 9  10.0        723.9       9.82? I      727.9
L. U41U9w3                       2. 38.04  86.0                       1 - l281.6  30 .0   3.6    6   S. 0  3.111.7        10. S    .439 4
c. 148lUllEll          -I                     -       11.2    70.0       4.   30.0      1i9   00            13.            0.09       1. 9
0. SDCuIO-t      C                 314.8 a09.0               -         201. 0 3.0        76 6   0.8        20.3           173.S     20I. a
.It NiciU ts                                          3082    W.         16.3 3-.0       46.5   0.1         36.3           14.0      16.3
A."1   9180I06*tFI               3.047.4 70.0                - 1      .306.2  30.0   4.354.0   60        3.043.4       3.0Go.9     304.8
tt   lowUI                       7 487.6 69. 7-                  -    262.6 329. 0      8.2 7         .     37.3         660.4 S2.9 S
IIE . s I0                         72.24.  -                            S.S 2100.0    9 1.039. 4   2.4 t    .023. 3 98-
i. IlfINhA I LOCA                                        -             84?.2  OO.0      874. 2   1.2          -         846.2
5. 5OECE - 3CNoK4IC S7Io1S 418.3  100.0                                           9 -  .4186   0 .6 9                    418.6
R. 106*1 omsuhIMiCt                                   38.0   100.0                       38.0   0.1           0- 3.0
1. IlSE'8   CUID CY                                4. C30.3   100.0 .             -  4. 130.3   5.7      4. 130.4
IL tA$157                                                -       -  3.419.9 3 00.0   3.4319.5   4.7            -       3.419 9
H. s*LAaV                         . 30 02    4?. t   5.2 20.   9  9   2.79 tO O    t23.                  9             52. 472 9
0. aft. SAL  COSI/Sipo           7.9,19. 9  47 I                     &  8902.)  92 9  1682.S.2  23.0           -       6. 622.2
P. 3hl. SAI.COSI/1891                                    -.363.? 100.   S.383.  7.4                                    S. .3.L .
0. SIlAVII All                     73?9. 2  47.1                       sib1  2  92. 9   l. SO. 4   2.1     923.0         232.3      389 8
S. 308911 All                                                          29?.S 100.0      287.9   0.4        172.3          43.3       71 9
S. OIIICI also                      40.3  4.1.3                         4593  92.9       89.6   0.3            .          88.6 
1. NWP 1*101*111                 1.328.3  47.1                        1. 413.3  9 2.9   2.821.5   3.9    I.40.6.       1.217.4      197.9
WI 0*A0*110381                              -                         lo1899 100.0     189.9   0.3        94.5           8o.8 a     83.3
V.  131  3*iIR3AIS             3.?62.4  47.3                        4.229. I 92. 9   7.9913.5  80. 9         -        7.432.1 I    99.4                                  -
IL 01311 UieAIE1AS                            -                      3. 122.3 100.0  3.1822.3   4. 3           -       2.003. 8     238.60
1.VEHICLE a0*300                   641.8  47.1           -       -     721.4  92.9   1.363. I   1.9        679.6         941.2      336.3 
T. 9133631  m*30                                         -              61.3 100.0       63.3   0.8         30.6          24.6        6.8 I 
1. 14300 411     811111 00         443.7  47.1                   -     498.8 S92. 9     942.9   8. 3       73. 3          323.2      66.0
A. 1413393101 0*ND3 N                                                  413.0 100.0      473.0   0.6        316.0          61.8       33.1                                 00 l-'
ft. 335it 880*518n COST            913.0  47.8                     $. .022  93.0   1.9339.2   2.7          392.8 a      .680.?      835.7
C. WISC. 0911*118  COST                       .                        9483 300.0       548.3   0. a        94.1S        469. 4      38.4
blab& Disbursemet                 30.023 1 41.1    S. 248. ?     7.2  37.7488i 98.7  73.0819.9 100.0    17.001.9        92.412 3  3.6099 
NAM1120. 8990 08.99



38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Training and Terms of Reference of Consultants
Technical Assistance
1.    DOL received considerable technical assistance from AIDAB in LTP.  This
assistance has left DOL in a sound position to implement LTPII.   However,
continued assistance to support the application of new technology is required
in LTPII in a number of key areas.  These have been identified as: project
administration; management and administration; computing; valuation; and
technical. The technical assistance requirements have been kept to a minimum.
2.    In Project Administration, assistance is required to manage and coordinate
technical assistance activities; assist DOL in project management of LTPII,
including planning, budgeting, coordination, training, evaluation and monitoring;
and assist DOL in liaison with other RTG agencies. Assistance will also be
provided to Thai consultants who would undertake the socio-economic studies.
3.    In Management and Administration, LTP focussed on the technical aspects
of the project and studies leading to the OMO recommendations and requirements
in the areas of organization, administrative computing, finance, and training.
LTPII requires technical assistance in the implementation of these areas to
assist DOL in achieving the administrative framework needed to handle the
increased volume of work in survey, mapping, and title issuance.  The major
emphasis in LTPII will be the development and implementation of management
information systems.
4.    In Computing under LTP, DOL installed significant in-house computer
resources. Continued assistance will be required under LTPII in the area oi.
administrative computing but also providing ongoing support to the technical
computing.
5.    The Valuation component in LTP was very much a preparatory activity for
LTPII under which DOL will require increased assistance to support the
development of CVA as a separate department.   Continued assistance will be
required at BIT to ensure that Thai academics are ready to assume responsibility
early in LTPII for the Diploma in Valuation course.
6.    In the Technical area, substantial assistance was provided under LTP to
support major construction and procurement programs and has left DOL in a
position where the technical areas can largely support the increased targets set
for LTPIZI. Continued assistance is required in the areas of land administration,
land information systems, and photomapping.   In view of the volume of land
information generated in LTP and the increased physical targets set for LTPII,
land administration and land information systems are considered to be key



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
activities for the project.   Assistance will also be provided to refine
photomapping procedures introduced under LTP.
7.    A total of 349.6 staff months of long and short term assistance would be
provided as set out in Table 1. In addition, AIDAB is providing funds for the
purchase of minor equipment for the Project Office not exceeding AUS20,550 and
administrative support costs of AU$194,000, bringing the total AIDAB contribution
to AU$6,719,724.
Training
8.    Under LTP, there was a substantial AIDAB funded training program in
addition to the technical assistance. This training has provided a nucleus of
highly trained staff to assist in the implementation of LTPII.   Continued
training is required to support the increased scope of LTPII. The program of
assistance would be supplemented by formal training of senior and middle level
staff in Australia. A total of 59 person years of undergraduate and postgraduate
training and 472 persons weeks of short term and on-the-job training courses
would be financed by AIDAB, as set out in Table 1.
Terms of Reference for Consultants
9.    Director, Technical Assistance (6 staff months).  The consultant should
have an appropriate tertiary qualification and at least ten years of experience,
part of which would have been on management of large projects involving high
levels of planning and coordination. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   direction and overall management of all advisors and coordination
of input from the various consultants and government departments in
Australia;
(b)   assisting the Manager (Technical Assistance) with project management,
including planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation;
(c)   overview of the AIDAB funded training program; and
(d)   liaison with DOL, other RTG agencies, AIDAB and World Bank.
10.         Manager, Technical Assistance (48 staff months).   The consultant
should have an appropriate tertiary qualification and at least ten years of
experience, part of which would have been on the management of large projects
involving high levels of planning and coordination. Familiarity with AIDAB and
World Bank progress reporting practices would be desirable. The main
responsibilities would be:
(a)   management of project advisors and the technical assistance program;
(b)   assisting DOL in project management, including planning, budgeting
and coordination of project activities, and preparation of project
reports;



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(c)   improvement of the existing mechanism for monitoring and evaluating
project implementation progress and impact to cover physical,
financial and environmental parameters;
(d)   coordination of in-country and overseas training; and
(e)   liaison with other RTG agencies, AIDAB and World Bank.
11.   Administrative Officer (6 staff months).   The consultant should have an
appropriate tertiary qualification and at least five years experience  in
financial management.   The main responsibility would be the preparation of
accounts,  invoices. disbursement and financial  records of the project  in
Australia.
12.   Training Coordinator (6 staff months).   The consultant should have an
appropriate tertiary qualification, with at least five years experience in the
organization and formulation of training courses.  The main responsibilities
would be:
(a)   coordination of the AIDAB funded training program in Australia;
(b)   liaison with  DOL students and visitors, AIDAB and the training
institutions in Australia; and
cc)   preparation, with the assistance of the Director and  Manager,
Technical Assistance, of curricula for special courses in Australia.
13.   Socio-Economic Study Analysts (12 man months).  Responsible for advising
and assisting in the conduct, analysis and compilation of the socio-economic
impact study, the assistance would comprise: (a) a Sociologist, who should have
appropriate tertiary qualification and at least ten years experience in research,
part of which will have been in Southeast Asia; (b) an Economist, who should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and at least ten years experience, including
cost/benefit analysis and economic surveys.
14.   Management Information System Advisor (24 staff months).  The consultant
should have appropriate tertiary qualifications and at least five years
experience in setting up and administering computerized management information
systems. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   assisting DOL in introducing the concept of management information
and project planning;
(b)   designing, developing and implementing management information systems
appropriate to the increased volume of transactions and meeting the
needs of DOL head office and provincial offices;
(c)   preparation of a strategic planning function and a strategic plan
for the development of DOL, and training management staff in the
understanding and implementation of strategic plans;



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(d)   developing a monitoring  system to regularly  report  on actual
performance in comparison to the strategic plan and providing
training in the analysis of financial reports produced;
(e)   training provincial and head office accounting personnel in the
operations of the computerized accounting systems; and
(f)   liaising with the Systems Section of Comptrollers Department of the
Ministry of Finance to ensure that the systems conform to RTG
regulations.
15.   Organization, Management and Operations Advisor (28 staff months).  The
consultant, a Thai national, should have appropriate tertiary qualifications
and at least ten years experience in institutional development, part of which
would ha,2 been on public administration and administrative reform in Thailand.
The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   advising DOL on the reorganization and restructuring of the
Department, both at head office and in provincial and branch land
offices;
(b)   assisting  DOL  in  obtaining  RTG  approval  for  Departmental
reorganization, especially liaising with the Civil Service Commission
and the Budget Bureau;
(c)   advising on the impact of organizational changes on other RTG
agencies; and
(d)   in cooperation with the Civil Service Commission, assisting the
Personnel Division in establishing appropriate staff development
plans and career paths for valuers and other technical staff.
16.   Training Advisor  (18 staff months).          The  consultant  should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications, and at least five years experience in
designing and conducting training courses and in personnel management. The main
responsibilities would be:
(a)   assisting the Training Division in identifying Departmental training
needs and designing appropriate in-service training programs;
(b)   developing and implementing an accelerated training program for
valuers;
(c)   preparing career development paths for categories of staff based on
training and broadening experience in different skills, particularly
in relation to the increased requirement for cooperation and
coordination under the project;
(d)   training staff of Training Division in curriculum development, course
preparation and conducting of training courses; and



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
(e)   assisting Training Division in setting up a computerized system of
training records.
17.   Computing Advisor  (45  staff months).    The  consultant  should  have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and at least ten years experience in
digitizing techniques, system design, computer graphics and computer programming.
The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   assisting in the development of the overall strategic computing plans
for the long term computerization of DOL in relation to its
administrative, land administration, land information' system and
valuation functions;
(b)   assisting DOL in implementing the strategic plan, which may
include design of new or modification of existing technical and
clerical systems;
(c)   review of the status of computerization in the various
Divisions of DOL and provincial offices and of coordination of
computing requirements;
(d)   review of problems caused by DOL's decentralization and
making recommendations on latest appropriate communications
technology;
'e)   advising DOL staff on computerized map transformation
system and the possible use of graphics data;
(f)   formulation of a survey control data base; and
(d)   assisting DOL in liaison with other agencies.
18.   Land Administration/Cadastral Surveying Advisor (48 staff months).  The
consultant should have cadastral survey, law, or other appropriate qualifications
with considerable experience in surveying, photogrammetry, and computerized
mapping technology, and the administration of cadastral maps, land records and
land  offices.    Some  legal  background  would  be  desirable.    The  main
responsibilities would be:
(a)   review of all documents, data processing procedures and
information systems in land offices;
(b)   in collaboration with DOL staff, preparation of a uniform and simpler
system of land administration, aimed at reducing the different number
of forms handled;
(c)   identification and proposal of solutions to improve land record
management by securing appropriate changes in the law or in the
official regulations;



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(d)   integration of the newly-designed land data flow-line with the needs
for management information system and the development of a land
information system;
(e)   review of procedures for parcel identification throughout DOL;
(f)   advising on security of records, including back-up copies on micro-
film or computer systems without affecting access to the data; and
(g)   assisting in training and guiding staff in the new
procedures.
19.   Photomapping/Photo Laboratory Advisor (4 staff months).  The consultant
should be a qualified surveyor with considerable experience in photogrammetry
and computerized mapping technology, specializing in aerial triangulation and
adjustment of large blocks of models. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   review of DOL photomapping procedures once the new
technology is in full operation;
(b)   review  of DOL material  management,  equipment  maintenance  and
operational requirements;
(c)   development of larger scale photomaps for dense urban
areas;
(d)   review of the use of DOL mapping products in cadastral surveys,
titling and land administration, and of possible changes to
facilitate access by DOL and other agencies to these products;
(e)   provision  of  follow-up  training  in  photomapping  and  other
photolaboratory procedures; and
(f)   review of further applications of analytical plotters such as in
hilly terrain and in cadastral surveys for villages and towns.
20.   Land Information Systems Advisor (36 staff months).  The consultant should
be a qualified surveyor with considerable experience in land information systems.
The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   assisting DOL in setting up appropriate working groups and committees
for the development of a LIS;
(b)   advising on priorities  in the development of LIS and on LIS
technology and procedures;
(c)   coordinating the development of data structures,  standards and
procedures;
(d)   assisting in the design and implementation of the computerization
of land office document flow as redesigned by the land administration
advisor; and



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
(e)   advising on the exchange of land-related data between different
divisions and offices internally and with other RTG agencies.
21.   Strategic Valuation Advisor (4 staff months).  The consultant should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and be a corporate member of a recognized
professional valuation institute, with at least ten years experience at senior
management level in a large public valuation agency. The main responsibilities
would be:
(a)   providing overall direction and coordination of technical assistance
to CVA;
(b)   developing, in cooperation with the Director of CVA and the Valuation
Advisor, the stratr,ic plan for CVA;
(c)   ensuring the integration of the short term objectives with long term
plans in the CVA and RTG valuation systems and functions;
(d)   preparation of detailed plans for the establishment of CVA as an
Office.
22.   Valuation Advisor  (48 staff months).         The consultant  should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and be a corporate member of a recognized
professional valuation institute, with at least ten years experience at senior
level in a large public valuation agency.
The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   provision of assistance and advice in the development of CVA;
(b)   responsible for the day to day assistance to the Director of CVA for
the development and implementation of the CVA strategic plan;
(c)   assisting the training of BIT graduates starting work in CVA;
(d)   development of a comprehensive in-house training program for valuers
and other CVA staff;
(e)   development of forms, procedures, and manuals for valuation field
operations;
(f)   planning for computerization and development of a long term record
system;
(g)   assisting with the implementation of the Valuation of Land Act; and
(h)   liaison with RTG agencies and the private sector on the use of
valuation data.
23.   Valuation Lecturer  (7 staff months).         The consultant  should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and corporate membership of a recognized
professional valuation institute, together with extensive lecturing experience



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
at a senior level and a demonstrated ability to develop courses from inception.
The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   advising and lecturing at Bangkok Institute of Technology during the
period between the completion of LTP and the time when nationals can
take over this function;
(b)   finalization  of  the valuation  diploma  curriculum  and  lecture
materials; and
(c)   assisting DOL and BIT in phasing nationals in administering and
lecturing the diploma course.
24.   CVA Valuation (Thai, 9.6 staff months).    The consultant should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and at least five years experience in
institutional matters relating to valuation. The main responsibilities will be:
(a)   provision of assistance and advice in the development of CVA;
(b)   assisting in the induction training of BIT graduates entering CVA;
(c) cooperating with the-Australian valuation adviser in assisting CVA
design systems and operational plans and implement those plans; and
(d)   liaison with other RTG agencies and the private sector, particularly
with regard to the implementation of the Land Valuation Act and the
institutional development of CVA.



THAILAND
Second Land Titling Project
Technical Assistance and Training
Technical Assistance                                        Training
(a)  Project Administration           Months       (a)  DOL                            Nos.    Years/Wks
Director, Technical Asst.          6               Undergraduate: Valuation         9          3 yr
Manager, Technical Asst.          48               Postgraduate: LIS, Tech.         8          2 yr
Admin. Officer (Australian)        6
Training Coord. (Australian)       6
Socio-Economic Specialists        12
(b)  Management & Administration                   (b)  Short Term
MIS                               24               Study and Experience             8          4 vk
OMO (Thai)                        28               Study and Experience            22          8 wk           0
Training                          18               Study and Experience            21         12 wk
Group Study Tours (5 persons)   4           3 wk
(c)  Computing                                     (c)  Bangkok Inst. of Tech.
Computing                         45               Undergraduate: Valuation         2          3 yr
Postgrad.: Valuation & Survey   2           2 yr
(d)  Valuation
Strategic Valuation                4
CVA Valuation                     48          (d)  Chulalongkorn
BIT Valuation                      7               Postgraduate                     2          2 yr
CVA Valuation (Thai)               9.6             Work Experience                  2          1 yr
(e)  Technical
Land Admin./Cadastral             48
Photomapping                       4
LIS                               36
TOTAL                      349.6                            TOTAL             54 person years
472 person weeks



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Rural and Urban
Cadastral Surveying and Mapping
1.    DOL commenced cadastral surveys An 1903, using ground survey techniques
based on coordinated traverse networks measured with theodolites and chains.
In 1954, first and second class cadastral surveys for land titles were
introduced. The first class surveys were based on the aforementioned techniques.
To speed up the process of issuing land titles, second class surveys used
graphical methods and were connected to the coordinated traverses. In 1962, the
use of rectified aerial photomaps at a scale of l:4,00 was adopted for use with
second class surveys to further increase productivity.
2.    Certificates of utilization (NS3) were introduced in 1954 and were issued
on the basis of simple isolated tape surveys. To increase the output of these
surveys beginning in 1972 certificates of utilization known as NS3K were based
on unrectified aerial photomaps compiled at an appropriate scale of 1:5,000.
In the period since then, DOL adjudicated, surveyed and issued over 7 million
NS3K certificates.
3.    All cadastral mapping and surveying for the issue of land titles was based
on 29 independently determined origins.   Due to the techniques adopted in
determining the origins and the procedures subsequently used for the mapping
control, there were significant inconsistencies between maps based on different
origins. When traverses from adjoining origins were connected, they were found
to differ by up to 80 meters. Under LTP, the boundaries of NS4 parcels from
title deed maps, and boundaries of NS3K parcels from unrectified photomaps were
transformed onto a unified grid based on the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM)
projection.
4.    For the rural mapping program, the following procedures are observed:
(a)   an annual program of aerial photography is carried out by a private
contractor.   Each year's  sortie provides photography for the
following year's control and rectification program:
(b)   major control surveys are carried out using Doppler satellite
observation or Global Positioning System (GPS), and electronic
distance measuring equipment. This establishes control in areas to
be mapped in following years and are connected to the RTSD national
geodetic network at appropriate points;
(c)   minor control is used to compute coordinate values of points on
aerial photographs (block adjustment);
(d) a block adjustment using analytical photogrammetry is then carried
out;



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(e)   rectified photomaps are produced using existing techniques;
(f)   this is followed by compilation of cadastral overlays, from three
sources of information: existing title deed maps, transformation from
NS3K aerial photographs; and field survey and adjudication.  The
overlays are pre-plotted, gridded transparent sheets fitted over
the photomaps. The parcels and relevant cadastral information are
plotted onto these sheets; in villages and obscured areas on
photographs, ground survey methods are used;
(g)   all parcels are then renumbered; and
(h)   in the case of NS3K unrectified photomap sheets, cadastral boundaries
are digitized using digitized work stations and the final map sheet
is drawn by automatic plotters.  The areas are computed at this
stage.
5.    In respect of urban mapping, 1:1,000 scale and, where necessary, 1:500
scale cadastral maps are being produced based on rectified photomaps. Virtually
all parcels in urban areas have been issued title deeds, supported by maps.
However, land tenure in these areas is rapidly changing, and the growing number
of small parcels cannot be adequately plotted onto existing maps. Therefore,
present urban cadastral maps do not reflect the current record of cadastral
parcel structure.  Thus, small scale maps (1:1,000 or 1:500) are necessary.
These would need to be supplemented by some ground survey where high rise
buildings or very dense development make the use of aerial photography
impracticable.



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Provinces in Project Area
Northern Region         Central Region        Northeastern Region         Eastern Seaboard
Lampang                 Samut Prakan          Ubon Ratchatani             Chon Buri
Phrae                   Pathum Thani          Yasothon                    Rayong
Nan                     Nonthaburi            Mukdaharn                   Chantaburi
Uttaradit               Nakhon Savan          Roi Et                      Trat                                  1
Tak                     Phitsanulok           Maha Sarakham               Prachin Buri                          %V
Sukkothai               Phichit               Kalasin                     Chachoengsao
Kamphaeng Phet          Chainat               Khon Kaen
Petchabun               Uthai Thani           Chaiyaphum



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Photomap Production
ProvincefKhet         No. of Urban                 No. of Rural
Photomaps                   Photomaps
PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4       PY1  PY2   PY3  PY4
Bang Rak                     24
Bangkok Noi                  96
Dusit                        92
Huai Kwang                  164
Klongsan                     28
Pathum Wan                   52
Rat Burana                  172
Thon Buri                    72
Yan Nawa                    148
Phra Nakhon                        24
Bang Klun Thian                   728
Phasi Charoen                     420
Taling Chan                             320
Cholburi                                200
Rayong                                   24
Chantaburi                               40
Trat                                     24
Chachoengsao                             80             1331
Prachin Buri                             56             2352
Lampang                                         60      1970
Nan                                             40                587
Phrae                                           32                692
Yasothon                                        40               1041
Ubon Ratchathani                               232               +360
Yukdahan                                        16                     890
Samut Prakhan                                 1128                     506
Pathumthani                                      -                     385
Nonthaburi                                       -                     158
Utaradit                                         -                     878
Tak                                              -                    1087
Sukhothai                                        -                    1363
Pitsanulok                                       -                           1671
Kampaeng Phet                                    -                           1808
Pichit                                           -                           1133
Petchaboon                                       -                           1913
TOTAL PROJECT                                 4312                          24125



- 51.-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Land Use in 1985 a/
m rai       Z
Agricultural Land
Paddy                                      84.3      26.3
Upland Crops                               51.4      16.0
Para Rubber                                10.5       3.3
Perennial Crops  & Others                   5.8       1.8
Subtotal                      152.0      47.4
Other
National Forest Reserve                    136.2 b/   42.5
Urban                                        2.7       0.9
Water Bodies                                 3.1       1.0
Vacant (swamp, beach, pasture, etc)         26.6       8.3
Subtotal                      168.6       52.6
Total                         320.6       100.0
a/ Sourc'e: Thailand Development Research Institute, Thailand Natural Resources
Profile (1986).
bl Including encroached areas. This figure differs from DOL's estimate in Annex
4, Table 2.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Land Ownership In Thailand la
Number of          Area
Parcels            (million
('000)               rai)
A.    State Land
Forest b/                                      -               146.9
Land under NSL C/                             76                16.1
Government Real Estate                         -                 6.9
Vacant Land                                    -                12.6
Subtotal                               76               182.5
B.    Private Land
Title Deeds (NS4)                          6,666                31.5
Certificates of Utilization (NS3K)         7,157                44.3
Certificates of Utilization (NS3)          2,916                22.6
Preemptive Certificates (NS2)                396                 4.5
Undocumented d/                            3,439                35.8
Subtotal                           20,574               138.7
Total                              20,650               321.2
a/    Department of Lands Statistics (1987).
bl    Including prereserved forest.
c/    Nor Sor Lor  (title deed for government-owned land,  registered with
Department of Lands).
d/    Estimated by subtraction.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Actual Cost of Production of Title Deed Under Land Titling Project
Baht '000
Base Cadastral Mapping                                       282,226
Ground Survey                                                364,562
NS3K Conversion                                               51,514
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Major Control           4,933
Minor Control           4,680
Aero Triangualtion     13,153
Photomap Production     1,938
Printing                1,298
NS4 Adjudication          962
Subtotal                                          26,964
Total                                            725,266
Number of Title Deeds:             664,239
Cost Per Title Deed (Baht):          1,092



_ 54 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Estimated Cost Production of Title Deed Under Land Titling II Project
Baht '000
Base Cadastral Mapping                                               729,460
Ground Survey                                                        959,840
NS3K Conversion                                                      222,900
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Major Control
Minor Control
Aerial Photography
Printing
NS4 Ajudication
Subtotal                                          57,480
Total                                          1,969,680
Number of Title Deeds:               3,756,000
Cost Per Title Deed (Baht):                524



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Development of the Central Valuation Authority
Background
1.    Since 1932 a complex system of taxation of property value, which is a vital
source of revenue to local and central government, has evolved in Thailand. In
1954, the enactment of the Land Code entrusted DOL with the responsibility for
the determination of land values throughout the Kingdom for the purposes of tax
and fee collection and for valuing land for government land expropriation
compensation.
2.    The appraisals conducted in the past were not undertaken in accordance with
market value approaches to valuation. As a result, the taxes and fees levied
by the government were significantly below potential expectations. Additionally,
the official valuation and concomitant compensation for land expropriation for
road construction and other government projects was unfair to the landowners who
then resisted expropriation, resulting in delays, worsening traffic and price
increases.
3.          In recognition of the serious shortcomings in the valuation systems,
the Cabinet approved in November 1981 the establishment of a new section in DOL
to serve as a central office of land and buildings valuation. In October 1983,
this section was upgraded to the level of Division and renamed the Central
Valuation Authority (CVA). In November 1989, the Cabinet approved the upgrading
of CVA to a full department.
Development of CVA under LTP
4.    The initial organizational efforts of CVA were limited in scope.  Property
valuation barely existed as a profession.   There were no qualified and
professionally trained valuers in the RTG system. Staffing requirements were
met through temporary transfers of employees to CVA from other divisions within
DOL. In recent years, however, both the organizational and operational efforts
of CVA improved markedly.   The valuation of land by block in 124 urban and
district municipality areas throughout the country, including the cities of
Bangkok and Pattaya, was completed in 1987. In addition, during this phase, the
development of property valuation was extended to the private sector.
5.      The implementation of the new market valuations contributed to the
increase of taxes and fee revenues from Baht 5.3 billion in fiscal 1987 to over
Baht 14.6 billion in fiscal 1989. However, valuations to date are essentially
limited to land and conducted on a block rather than a parcel basis. Further,
severe staffing limitations and lack of a technical civil service classification
and career paths for valuers have restricted CVA's goals. In addition in the



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
past few years, property values in many areas throughout Thailand have
skyrocketed. This rapid appreciation of value has created new pressure on the
Thai government to further the goals of CVA. The first ever formal education
program for valuers was founded at BIT under LTP. This 2-year diploma course
is graduating about 30 valuers a year, with about 10 going to DOL and CVA, and
the remainder going to the private sector.
CVA's Goals and Measures under the Proiect
6.    The essential role of CVA is to determine fair market values using basic
data and information from declared sale prices of landlproperty. The principal
objectives of CVA's program are:
(a)   To improve the tax and fee collection base for property-related
purposes through updated market values (which would potentially
increase revenues of the central and local governmelits).
(b)   To provide market based valuations for expropriated land to ensure
land owners would receive fair compensation for property expropriated
by the government for public projects and to provide equitable
revaluations on all properties in general in order for property
owners to use the valuations to assist them when applying for loans.
(c) To increase the valuation services available to government agencies,
and to provide a valuation information center which would benefit
public policy makers involved in decisions impacting property values,
land use, infrastructure improvements, tax policy, etc.
(d)   To provide local authorities with valuation maps (prepared from
cadastral maps), valuation rolls, and annual values needed for annual
taxation.
(e)   To improve the expertise of the valuers in response to the increase
of areas to be valued, and to create an organizational structure for
CVA to enable it to fully function a professionally staffed, national
valuation agency in the future.
7.    With Cabinet acceptance that CVA would become a separate department, the
long term operational goal is to create a nationwide system of fully staffed
regional valuation centers that would allow CVA to better meet its program
objectives. Decentralization would permit CVA to provide better data and market
information that are more pertinent to local conditions and thus facilitate
improved valuation by local authorities. Before CVA can decentralize, however,
it has to prepare and get approval for a master plan (para. 2.24) which spells
out its strategic and operational objectives for the longer term and addresses
policy, institutional and technical issues pertaining to, inter alia,:



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(a)   the criteria for priority area selection (potential value and
transfer activity) and the need for differential valuations in urban
and rural areas;
(b)   the rationale and phasing of the parcel-based system implementation;
(c)   valuation of capital improvements;
(d)   the appropriate linkages between DOL, CVA, DOLA, and other concerned
RTG agencies;
(e)   the phasing of computerization of valuation database system;
(f)   the role of CVA in valuation training in Thailand;
(g)   the relationship between valuation and taxation systems and the need
for change; and
(h)   rationalization of the compensation system for acquisition of public
lands for government use.
8.    Since the above process of planning final approval and preparation for
physically decentralizing CVA would take several years, a feasible transition
for expansion and improvement (within the framework of a CVA still under DOL)
would have to be programmed for. Initial focus will be in the urbanized and
industrial areas (the rest of Bangkok and the regional cities) where property
is more valuable and real estate transfers are projected to be most active.
9.    The project would support CVA in delineating the steps and procedures
necessary to complete its strategic plan for the duration of the project; 6 staff
months of short term consultancy would be provided for this purpose. A total
of 48 staff months of long term consultancy would assist in the detailed
programming of the strategic valuation plan and in the implementation of CVA
objectives under the project.   To further its administrative and operational
objectives, computerization will be introduced. Associated support equipment,
such as vehicles, equipment and furniture, would also be provided. An integrated
valuation training program would be strongly supported, overseen by the full-
time valuation advisor. The introduction of mass appraisal procedures would be
a key component of the training program.
10.   Staffing. There are presently 102 staff in CVA and 60 additional positions
have been approved, of which only about 30 positions are expected to be filled,
for Thai fiscal year 1990 for a total complement of 166 prior to the start of
LTP II. Due to budgeting constraints, this sate number (30) of new positions
per year has been used for planning of the project. However, upon implementation
of the Cabinet decision to upgrade CVA to a full department, RTG would remove
all constraints on resource allocation and provide the necessary staff and
financial resources required by CVA.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
11.   Training Requirements.  The key to the successful expansion of the CVA will
be its ability to train valuers. Under the project, a long term commitment would
be made to the continuation of the Bangkok Institute of Technology (BIT) academic
program in valuation. In PY1, a training advisor would be reappointed and the
CVA would be assigning two appropriately trained valuers to serve as student
teachers.    Subsequently,  the  Thai  interns  would  assume  full  teaching
responsibilities as the CVA has committed itself to ensuring the institutional
continuation of the BIT program. However, the limitations of the BIT program
(only a maximum of 10 graduates a year would be committed to the CVA) would
clearly not meet the demands of CVA under the project.   Further, while BIT
graduates are fundamentally sound in valuation principles, their classroom
training is not tailored to the day to day needs and operations of the CVA. nor
the practical recuirements for implementing a parcel-based valuation system.
12.   Therefore, the central component of the CVA Training Plan would be a broad-
based in-service training program tailored to the specific operational needs of
the CVA. Untrained valuers would follow an intensive eight- to ten-week basic
training program and become first level valuers. They would eventually move up
in expertise, with the more senior training the more junior. This conceptual
training framework matches quite well to the requirements of a modern mass-
appraisal system.  In a statutory valuation system, the staff with the least
amount of training (trainee valuers and support staff) collect the basic, raw
data about a property, such as the location of a property, its size, and the type
of improvement, on a standardized, computer enterable form.   Their work is
overseen by more experienced and supervisory valuers.   Another group of
experienced valuers researches market information about properties that have been
sold to determine values for comparable unsold properties. This system keeps
down the requirement in fully qualified valuers.  In the modern parcel-based
statutory valuation systems, statistical computer software does much of the
organizing, almost all of the research, and even the majority of the value
predictions for the final determination by the senior valuer.  Conversely, a
private sector fee appraiser, who is hired to value only one property at a time,
must do all of the leg-work, research work, etc. before arriving at the final
value. The fee appraisal system requires a fully qualified expert to not only
visit each property, but to complete all the time consuming minute details as
well.   The fee appraiser cannot benefit by the economies of scale as the
governmental valuer can.  The demands of CVA, where all the properties in one
or more defined valuation areas must be valued at a common date, can benefit by
those economies of scale and consequently it is more appropriate to employ the
far more efficient practices of statutory valuation. It is thus inherent that
most of its training requirements should be conducted in-service under carefully
constructed programs employing statutory valuation procedures, as planned under
the project.
13. Mapping Requirements. The availibility of accurate and up-to-date base
maps is an important element of valuation and CVA, because it started operations
well before Urban Mapping (Map Transformation Division), has been forced to
establish a mapping unit to assist its valuation work. Under the project, the
CVA mapping unit will use the maps of the Map Transformation Division where they



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
are available, and this will free the CVA mapping unit to work in area which is
outside the project area. As the program of the Division expands, the mapping
unit of CVA will be scaled down to the level of maintenance.
14.   Pilot Study.  One of the more important public policy aspects of the CVA
component of the project would be a scientific valuation study conducted in
Bangkok to provide data to evaluate the revenue potential of various property
based tax models. There is presently a proposal for a Property Tax Study to be
carried out by USAID under the aegis of the Department of Technical and Economic
Cooperation (DTEC) and the Fiscal Policy Office, Ministry of Finance. Any CVA
initiative should consider the results of the study expected to be conducted
during fiscal year 1990.
15.   Project Areas.  The 30 provinces referred to above (listed in Annex 3,
Table 1) comprise the project area boundaries for the project activities, with
the exception of the Land Valuation component. CVA's mandate extends nationwide
into all areas which show a pattern of accelerated market price increase. Thus
during the six years of LTP, CVA's operating area included the eastern seaboard
and the southern resort areas of Phuket and Koh Samui. CVA activities would be
extended during this project into economic growth areas which are only scheduled
for Phases III and IV.



- 60
ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Studies
Land Policy, Management and Administration Study
1.       Despite the success of LTP, the experience with respect to land titling
and administration at tbe provincial and branch levels is still limited; the
decentralization process has been in effect at most for only three years and
for only a few provinces (Buriram, Nakorn Ratchasima, Surin). As demand for land
titling remains unfulfilled and decentralization efforts under this project are
being substantially expanded, DOL will have to be in a better position to learn
from its experience and be able to better tackle key problems and issues. These
issues will become more important as CVA emerges from its transition from being
a division of DOL to a separate and independent department that will also need
to be decentralized (Annex 5).  Furthermore, as greater understanding of the
impact of LTP develops through the ongoing technical assistance for land
management and administration (Annex 2), there is therefore a need in the course
of this project to reevaluate the outstanding obstacles to improving the
efficiency of land administration and the strategic development of land policy
in the medium to long term. In response to this need, the Cabinet, in approving
this project for external assistance, endorsed a study on land policy, management
and administration. This study, which will be managed by DOL, will be undertaken
by analysts outside DOL, but in close collaboration with DOL staff and technical
assistance staff.
2.       The study will:
(a)   Reevaluate and propose for RTG consideration the criteria to be used
in selecting priority provinces for the next phase. Account would have
to be taken of the extent of private land covered by lesser documents
(i.e., NS3 or NS3-K) and the development of measurable indicators of
commercialization and potential land activity.
(b)   Assess the extent DOL can cope with the demand for various services at
the decentralized level and improve the cost efficiency in the provision
of key services.   Upon the identification of key services  (e.g.,
registration, valuation), relevant questions would include the
following:
(i)      How should DOL handle competing demands for its services both
within and between provinces?
(ii)      Taking  into  account  the  services  (e.g.,  surveying)  for
different types of clientele (e.g., tourism, urban industry,
urban household, rural household), how and to what extent can
the private sector be involved?



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(iv)      How should the forest boundary delineation problem in land
titling be handled?
(v)      What are the options available to DOL for allevieting the
problem of land officer liability which has unnecessarily
slowed down the issuance of land titles?   Based on the
experience of relevant countries, what system should Thailand
adopt?
(vi)      What are the implication of the BLIS experience (and its
possible replication to other key cities) on DOL's provision
of information services?
(vii)      How can the provision of improved cadastral and valuation
information assist policy and planning both within and outside
DOL?
Account will be taken of the work of the technical assistance advisors for land
administration, management information and computing (Annex 2, paras. 18, 14 and
17, respectively).
(c)   Evaluate  the  status  of  DOL  implementation  of  the  OMO  study's
recomsendations and previous proposals for training; and propose further
changes that may be required in light of the problems faced during
project implementation.  Consideration will be also given to, inter
alia:
(i)      tne linkages with CVA as a separate department:
(ii)      the prospect of devolving the functions of the Land Titling
Project office into the existing or a revised divisional
structure of DOL;
(iii)      staff development, especially middle management training; and
(iv)      remedies  for the high turnover rates  of particular DOL
professionals (e.g., computer analysts and surveyors).
Particular account will be taken of the work of:   the technical
assistance advisors for organizational management and operations and
for training (Annex 2, paras. 15 and 16, respectively); and the CVA
master plan proposals (Annex 5).
(d)   Analyze the complex issue of cost recovery of land titles taking into
account not only the cost of producing the title itself and the charges
for DOL services, but also the role of existing and proposed taxes
related to land.   Account will be taken of the work and study on
property and land taxation (financed by USAID) to be undertakeun for
RTG's Land Tax Reform Committee through the Fiscal Policy Office.
(e)   Undertake an analysis of the issue of the role of DOL and other agencies
in the issuance of land titles and usufruct certificates (see para.
2.11). Relevant questions to be answered includes



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
(i)      To what extent,  and under what conditions,  should other
agencies be permitted to i3sue title-like documents?
(ii)     Should  the  Land  Code  be  medified  to  allow  for  their
registration?
(f)   From the above analyses and recommendations, assess their implications
for the legal system (especially the Land Code). Attention should be
focused, inter alia, on:
(i)      modification of the Land Code to take  into account  the
introduction of new technology;
(ii)     the legal questions concerning computerized title documents
and micro-films of DOL outputs (including their accessibility
to the public);
(iii)    the  legal  status of usufruct certificates  among various
agencies; and
(iv)     the legal aspects of DOL liability in title issuance.
(g)   Assess the implications of the above analyses and recommendations for
Ci) strategic and manpower planning of DOL; and (ii) monitoring and
evaluation.
3.       Coverage and Composition of Study Team.  The study can be undertaken
as four substudies:
(a)   Substudy I: Land Administration - covering items (a) and (b) of para. 2
above.
(b)   Substudy II:  Organization and Management - Covering item (c) of para.
2 above.
(c)   Substudy III: Cost Recovery and Taxation - covering item (d) of para. 2
above.
(d)   Substudy IV: Documentation and Relationship among Land-Related Agencies
- covering item (e) of para. 2 above.
The final study and overall report will cover the key issues and major
conclusions from the substudies and items (e) and (f) of para. 2 above.  The
report will be strategic in nature, spelling out the policy and program
priorities for the longer term (third phase and beyond).
4.       The type of expertise and duration needed  for each  substudy is
summarized as follows:
(a)   Substudy I: Land administration specialist - preferably with experience
working in the government sector (8 staff-months).



63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(b)   Substudy TI:  Organization and management specialist - preferably with
experience in land-related institutions (6 staff-months).
(c)   Substudy III:   An economist/financial analyst with background in
taxation and preferably with familiarity in land-related institutions
(4 staff-months).
(d)   Substudy IV:  A policy analyst familiar with land-related and legal
issues (4 staff-months).
Each analyst has to be familiar with the Thai-context of the relevant substudy.
The study director (10 staff-months) will work with each analyst in the course
of their substudies and will be responsible for defining (with each substudy
analyst and other knowledgeable persons) the type of specialized resource persons
needed for the substudies and for the overall study.   Anticipated resource
persons (needed for appruximately one month) include, inter alie:
(a)   land taxation expert;
(b)   specialist  knowledgeable  in  international  experience  in  land
documentation liability;
(c)   land legislation specialist/lawyer;
(d)   manpower and training specialist.
The study director and substudy anal-sts are expected to be Thai nationals,
while the resource persons could include some expatriates. Review seminars will
be organized in conjunction with each suustudy to enable the relevant analysts
and the study director to take into account comments from the different segments
of government, the expatriate advisors and the private sector. A final seminar
will also be organized to discuss the overall study report.
5.       Timing and Costs.  In order to give the technical advisors time to have
an impact, the study is expected to commence only in October 1992 (beginning of
FY93) with the selection of study director and analysts to be completed by June
1992. A draft report will be submitted to the Ban. for review by February 1994.
The elapsed time of the study is expected to be about l1 years with a final
report to be presented to the Land Titling Project Executive Committee by May
1994. Tentative costs (in 1990 prices) are as follows:



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
Baht
Team leader
e B 40,000/staff-month for 10 months                400,000
Substudy analysts
e B 30,000/staff-month for 22 months                660,000
Resource persons                                        800,000
Comprising:
Thais                                              (300,000)
Expatriates                                        (500,000)
Seminars including honoraria                            175,000
(7 e B 25,000 each)
Per diem (Thai)                                         100,000
Per diem, travel and hotel (expatriate)                 320,000
Secretarial support, translation and report
preparation                                           345,000
Total Costs                            2,800,000
Socio-Economic Impact Studies
6.       As part of LTP, a series of base-line and socio-economic impact studies
were undertaken between 1985 and 1989 (with surveys primarily in 1985 and
1988)1/.  Coverage included the following provinces:  (a) Nakorn Ratchasima,
Buriram and Roi-et in the northeast; and (b) Chiang Mai and Lampang in the north.
The economic and financial benefits arising from the base-line and associated
studies undertaken prior to 1988 have been summarized in para. 5.4 of this
report. These results focussed on cross-sectional analyses of farmers (with and
without land documeLts) at one single point in time. Most of the results of the
economic and productivity assessments have yet to be analyzed on a time-series
basis because, as in the north, much of the land title issuance under LTP
commenced only at the end of 1988. Follow-on surveys for the sample areas are
scheduled for 1991.
7.       The socio-economic studies also include a number of case studies
highlighting certain location specific, socio-institutional aspects of the LTP.
A brief summary of main results of the completed case studies are given under
two subheadings:
(a) Social/Credit Aspects:
(i) Rich farmers tend to obtain titles more easily than the poorer
farmers primarily because the latter group had documentation and
household record problems (Buriram Social Factors case study).
1/    See Yongyuth Chalamwong, Greg McColl and F.J. Murray, Socio-Economic
Evaluation of the Land Titling Proiect - Preliminary Report, February
1989.



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6
(ii)  Non-institutional (informal) lenders, many of whom are farmers,
tend to lend based on personal relationships and, where clients
may not be familiar, only land collateral is acceptable (Credit
case study).
(iii) After title issuance the poorer farmers tend to borrow much more
(from informal lenders) for both consumption and investment
(Buriram Social Factors case study).
(iv)  Land collateral is used by informal lenders only for loan amounts
that are greater than B 5,000 (Credit case study).
(v) As collateral, NS3 certificates are as much accepted as titles
(chanod) by the informal lender.   However, titles would have
advantages in terms of receiving a higher amount of loan and
perhaps a lower interest rate (Credit case study).
(vi) When prices are low, farmers with land titles tend to borrow for
nonfarm activities (Chiangmai Social Context case study).
(vii) A number of family members, not involved in the farm, tend to
'borrow" the title deeds of the owner for their use (Chiangmai
Social Context case study).
(b)     Institutional Aspects at the Field (Branch) Level
(i) Under LTP, beneficiaries received their land titles almost six
times faster than by the old survey method.
(ii)  Bottlenecks exist primarily at the local officer (checking and
delivery) level rather than at the cadastre preparation level.
(iii) Significant budget increases, including improved and more
widespread services, were observed at the LTP branch levels.
(iv)  752 of farmers' title deeds were for houselots (and were thus
used for loans) rather than farm plots.
(v)  Reassignment of staff to project areas created some difficulties
in the areas they came from.
8.       Project Support.  Continued evaluation of the LTP areas will take place
under AIDAB support (started during LTP) through 1991/92 when the follow-on
surveys would be undertaken with the help of technical assistance advisors (see
Annex 2, para. 13). Besides verifying the impact of the issuance of various land
titles and title-equivalent documents on (i) land value, (ii) the extent of
credit  and  input  use,   (iii) improved  productivity,   (iv) incomes   and
(v) expenditures, the surveys will also assess the impact of title issuance on
investments in land improvement or any other measures with an ecological/
environmental impact.  To obtain a longer term perspective of socio-economic
impact, this project will support additional follow-on surveys in 1993/94 for
the LTP areas in the north and northeast (without AIDAB expatriate assistance).



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7
9.       Since this project will be covering the more commercially advanced
areas, base-line surveys will be started using selected provinces of the eastern
seaboard (probably Rayong and/or Chantaburi) in 1991/92 to lay the foundations
for assessing the impact in the urban areas (tourism, manufacturing, agro-
processing) as well as the rural areas (especially on tree crops like rubber and
fruit trees which are commonly found in the eastern provinces). The impact on
the revenues of local authorities will also be assessed. For the urban areas
in the seaboard provinces, assessments would be made of the impact of title
issuance on land/property values, the location of land/building investments,
investor incomes and spillover effects on employment and poverty (depending on
the origin of the incremental labor force resulting from titled-related
investments). For the rural areas, evaluation similar to that for LTP (see para.
8) will be undertaken. Higher capital investments, associated with higher valued
tree crop production, which could include sophisticated investments like
sprinkler irrigation (for durians), are more likely than in LTP areas.
10.      Study Teams and Costs.  The composition and costs (in 1990 prices) of
a typical rural evaluation team are estimated as follows:
Unit      Unit        Total
cost      staff       cost
No.     (Baht)    months       (Baht)
Staff Cost
Team Leader                              1    25,000        9         225,000
Assistant Team Leader                    1    15,000        8         120,000
Field Supervisor                        15     8,000        3          24,000
Interviewers for 300 farms               1     3,000        1.5        67,500
Secretarial Support                      1    10,000        6.0        60,000
Subtotal                                                        496,500
Operational Cost
Materials for 300
questionnaires                       300       100                   30,000
Transport (days)                       360     1,000                  360,000
Per diem (days)                        360     1,000                  288,000
Publication                                                            20,000
Overheads (5Z of staff cost)                                           25,000
Subtotal                                                        723,000
Other  Cost                                                              80,500
Total Cost/Team                                                       1,300,000
For urban teams, a smaller number of interviewers would be required.
but since coverage of interviewers would be broader, higher caliber interviewers
would be needed and tot 1 costs are expected to be the same.



- 67 *
ANNEX 6
Page 8
11.      The total number of teams are:
Baht
(a) For LTP follow-on surveys in the north
and northeast (2 rural teams)                       2,600,000
(b) For LTPII base line and follow-on
surveys (two rural and two urban teams)             5,200,000
(c) Team leader(s) report preparation and
other costs                                           200,000
Total Costs                                         8,000,000
12.      Output of the Socio-Economic Studies.  In addition to progress reports
on individual surveys, three final reports will be preparedt
(a) LTP socio-economic impact for the north and northeast (undertaken
through AIDAB assistance).
(b) LTPII socio-economic impact for an urban area of the eastern seaboard.
(c) LTPII socio-economic impact for a rural area of the eastern seaboard.
These reports, in addition to summarizing the socio-economic status
and impact on beneficiaries, will assess the implications of the findings for
land policy, government revenues and the implementation of the land titling
program.



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year             Cumulative Disbursements   Proiects Disbursements (Z)
and Semester                   (US$M)      (2)             LTP a/    Thailand
FY91    1                    0.9           3                0             0
2                    2.4           8                1            2
FY92    1                    4.5          15                5             5
2                    7.5          25               11            9
FY93    1                   10.5          35               20            15
2                   15.0          50               26           24
FY94    1                   19.5          65               33            32
2                   24.0         80                42           41
FY95    1                   28.5          95               51            50
2                   30.0         100               60           58
FY96    1                    -                             80            69
2                           -                    100            78  b/
a/   From Loan 2440-TH.
b/   Full disbursement in 8 years.



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLIN PROJECT
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
ProJect Y"r   Dote    Duration          Mission ComposWtion                      Areas of Concentration
(m7yr)   (weeks)
1        11/90       2.6        Agriculturalist                     Loan effectiveness; review ongoing project,
Cadastral Specialist               continuity with LiT II, FY91 work programs
Valuation Specialist               and budgets; aerial photography procurement;
NSSK transformation action plan; CVA master
plan preparation.
1         2/91       2.6        Agriculturalist                     Branch land offIce operations; NSSK trans-
Valuation Specialist               formation; CVA master plan preparation;
Land Information Specialist         land and mnagement informstion systes;
training.
2         9/91       2.6        Agriculturalist                     Computerization of land records; branch and
Cadastral Specialist               distriect land office operations; training
Land Information Specialist        and career development; review of FY92 work                          'o
progrms and FY91 progress reports.
2         2/92       2.6        Agriculturalist                     Socioe-conomIc studies; CVA development
Economist                          plan; DOL decentralization; land and
Valuatlon Specialist               management information systems.
8         8/92       2.5        Agriculturalist                     FY93 work programs and FY92 progress
Cadastral Specialist               reports; cadastral surveying and mapp;ng;
land and management Information systems.
8         2/93       2.5        Agriculturalist                     Progress of studies; land and management
Economist                          Information systems; CVA and DOL develop-
mnt; staff training and promotion.
4         8/98       2.6        Agriculturalist                     FY94 work programs and FY93 progress
Cadastral Specialist               reports; progres of studies; cadastral 
Valuatlon Specialist               surveying and mapping; land administra-
Economist                          tion. 
4         2/94       2.5        Agriculturalist                     Preparation of completion and impct 
Economist                          evaluation report.



- 70
ANNEX 9
THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
WORKING PAPERS
1.    Land Titling Project Report No. P4 - Proposal for Phase II Implementation
(PY7 to PY10), AIDAB/IBRD, August 1989.
2.    Progress Reports Thailand Land Titling Project (Project Years 1 to 5), DOL,
1985-90.
3.    Progress in the Land Titling Project, DOL, October 1987
4.    Organization, Management and Operations Study, AIDAB, October 1986.
5.    Immovable Property Tax Reform in Thailand, Gemmell, September 1985.
6.    Land Titling Project Report No. T3 - Cadastral I Lecture Notes, AIDAB/IBRD,
March 1989
7.    Land Titling Project Report No. T4 - Cadastral Surveying, AIDAB/IBRD, July
1989.
8.    Project Cost Tables.



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
DEP"  NW        DEMNeO              D8MNP E|MUr
WE 8ECEY  |            D    E                POWYDEVELOPMENT  lP PC  a                                                    |
70 XHE ER 0 MAMIWAFl    DEPAf #*0
TO_ThE MINIERE   _ i                  _ DEPARTMENT        _  1HEPCFFIANNING]  _   DEPSIIETEOIEO
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DWETARYET          DEPARTMEN            DEARTMNTR             RUAU L            DEPARTEN
THIE POLICEME ROPOLTAN                                       PROVINCIAL      lThE NATONGAL
ADM   TRA ON  ~ ~       ~      ELOTIOlYWATER VJORIS  I                   IOUStNG
DEPARTMENT          AUTHORITY            AUthORITY   J       AUTI4ORI1Y 
THEPOUGE  AAETROPOUTM  PROVINCIAL                             S~~~~ANGKOK C
_ DEPARTMENTWATER WORKS8                 ELECTRICI7Y          MARIETING          METROPO|tTAN
AUT~HORfrY          AUTHORITY          ORGMIZTIO           ADMINISTRATON
I TH4E PU   I
MAPT I
DEPAR1TMET



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Organization of Department of Lands
Direcor CGeneral
|   Depuly              DG                        Depul  DG n     D0tH             r       G  a
|  Ofke of the           | Land Documeni   |                  Technks                      Suryve    &
Secrtay          l              Dhvbln                        DlvWn
_   Peronnel_                  Land PBeeords         _       Iar Management       _     PhotoD?nmbS
Division                    DWisbon                      Division                     Dailnt
T'1* clib                         Ssontrol                   Valuation                     =  Togze     
FinanooBangkok                                  Pubik Domain                  Caskulatlo
_   Dbvislon            _      Mebo=ia                        hfsuru nrlo         _       Data roesslng
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Land    esfblo  |  Land O ffces(874)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~lbo DD=snlw



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITUNG PROJECT
Existing Land Titling Project Management Organization Sucture
I   . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  I   v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
varbw~~~~~~
Dvbbbn
PrI 4 PA  dn*M     I
F"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I      3   as I nt



THAIIAND
SECOND LAND TITUNG PROJECT
Department of Lands Revenue
16
14
12
10
4
2
0
Yea _.



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITUNG PROJECT
Transaction Value of Registered Propery
(FY 1984w 198)
BANT (IN 100 BONS)                                                 
5-                                                                     A
4-                                                                      __ ___ _ __ _
8 -
1064             1865             196l             1987              1988             1989
FCAL YEAR
SOURCE: POLCY AND PLANNIN, DOI
U'



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Photomap Production
tokm* w00             60~
I  .   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
momra ~ ~ to"          " nvwd
zIIz
rrsnef#ptofw
phoWmhontrob
yb    <         P~~~~~~~~f photbinapPb
raphlaaflo" and
Wf h
Dpre.wF
adbbbuolo#raph0



THAI,'AND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Urban Mapping
Ihow"okm     ----       Tt -a sewe C--I
l a- 
Phbb amotyiy
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o rN .
Db,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sn landw rel
.. . .. . .. . .    ..  .D.I
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gaga Lan  _Ol l _ n
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
''''''''''''''  l h mpmo IPM1     r                       I_
r               
aoW p8tanaex                          n
-WC MMn,*"
nw%mr mto 
ChmV"WOW"c3



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
NS3K TENURE CONVERSION             Rural Tltle Conversion                 PHOTOMAP ADJUDICATION
AND NS3K MAP TRANSFORMATION
Preparation  |p|
I ~      ~       ~       ~        ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ I              hv   dinwtDvIo                                n l
CoordinationI
|~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          Checkk mas|           Coriht              Drf |  ul  lbfons
wmapparoel.wth DIsion                   ofdp0 spe flt
|~ ~~~~~~~~~culao                                               have aloattdymt=       Irnvom.           ohrmks
=h n                                                          tr|ansformeda.o
Office4 hcks   Paty mamta   NS   map                                      ]
andbors   NS3K         opations have     fori o
o .  W  domain.      vewrfationn
NS map                           mphet             
twWrmaoatlon                  agansmapd%ns|C nut|                                                        ddctrgi 
CI n4      Mand koreramrhaee I Speaso  Ce  atadn                  4
adiastram  NOll S Assig  deal          mapshis  p ar e         tKh l oCh
Pa        1paclmmr NS12)                                                    aMee hav   - o |  il ll  
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:dr'  bee  '                                                                             ao
_ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F   ad i=    ==
L   divam  |  | N811,N81k,N813  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,W



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Issuing of Tltbs
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A*|y~~~~~~~~Gff Itm                                                S_-f D
Aetlal FlSpb  _             ~~~Corfol Sny
Aethl Tdorngulaftn:
_ 8ek Adpsmri
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|Produdn otFh 
Forest Bourndarbs   |
U(t1 n  Ronal (Net)                                              Ra            IssingK)   ofnTocemDeed
I                                                                  In e p   n s
|  Docrnent                                               -           Auoae
Seareh      l                  rnl mtn(I)                       Tmnsfraln       g * '_             Auht
FbJd Stirvy                                                        Fbi < hcks:           (2
ConglatlSn of                                                
P = I ard                                                               om l . |C=n0  TlileDead
|~~~Y                                                                 Tbid 8ney)l.  DreedUln PepamMon
I Chedrsat oar
I                 I                        ChadMo  ln                                        ot TlSe Deeds
I   aParcel bde la"Ce fCd9ta1M Upndexes                                                                 to Lan Of                            !
(1) If NS3K on map sheet                                                         IsugdTJDes
(2)It undocumntRed pwarcel on sheet                                      F       l~   fW   of



,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ,/1 --~444" i                                  '..;
_7.3C_~~~~~--   .~                    _       _  ';                                . _ I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     y4%
,~ /      , j   S             t_'   .
IV                    'N~~~~~~~~~~jo~~~~(,VL
i~~~~~~~ La 9                             3g -   rXt'  
"~1~   ... ,                                                             44 t''Q' ji srQ     ''  '^,',, I
J~~                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ifi '-/J-  _   t _             rP)
_ _   -    ,   ,    ' W  ,      k  -     /
,  :   .  .  i . s .. s _ 1. . _ _ ~34~L



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
Part of Typical Urban Photomap - Scale 1 1,075
,Shows photomap background and land parcel overlayi
t  -% - f                                                                            C' _ 
:~~                                                           TtS,               INJMOL
W&I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
,.,                                                                     r I
C,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
.;.               Ko'                                        . X
in4
I               ~~A



THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLUNG PROJECT
Activity Flow
_____________             ~~Projet Year_               _  _  _  _  _  _
Preprojeot Year                                                    S          
1             ~~~~2                3                    4
SURVEY AND MAPPING
Aerial Phoogrphy
Satete Co*trol,
Major Travrse Control
Mnor Traverse Control
Rural Photomap Producion
Uitan Photomap Produ*con
LAND ADMINISTRAION .
Office Consuucton                               _  _
Equipment Proc nt                               __            _
NSOW Converton
N84 Transformation
Ac4udlcation
TB iemuanco                                                                                         -.
I/ Typical sequence of operaton for an area stat from aedal photography In pro-project year.



MAP SECTION



J                                ~~~~~~THAILAND
MvANMARf    'U N                                                   SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
t  M  v A N  M  A P  ~~~    >   g                                            .- (^,:.!- Ir caVe1c14e >tfoi Fci~ oL-d  lnypmjoec
vC~ ~ ~ ~~~~l    {g                 _                      N-lh9Ri/, s                                                 -e . s 'ta             
- *   5         --=            *                                        >a<-o11-1t on11I.LAOoly
X   I   ra_J    - oF  J       j                                     lovltP E 0 P LdE'S
C~~~~~                                         EM   R E P \82-iII)nI..lO <ed
,  I    Ch.beg Mal O    t   >        () ~~~~~~~~~~L A 
t_.SJ 4 _<s , / t<; gJ PEOPLE'S~~~~~~~
8  #  r4I;    (lz  J  2  ',,,,  ? .          i        -o        tr         t    -   oz
\    )   -      <     -      <       aE   9~~~~~~-   .o. tm  - ,  0  ,          Si E4 K.,Ig 
\ Kancht=~OL~, -                                  `    S. P.,
'   ' '           '   >'  t1J i                          D E  M  O  C  R  A  T  I C
\.  ,    e _OR^Stg  Choo BLt<                          K A M P U C H E A
-12-                                          'PT,20p Kh,,i Kh.<                                \
)                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~VIET NAM
fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<~ ~~~'t r                         l"
Phwqnga10 ) (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 A IWlo                             A) S  LA _
loo                       MALAYSIA                                                             IzE    A



