Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17974
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT
(LOAN 2198-TH)
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
(LOAN 3254-TH)
June 8, 1998
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Country Currency: Bath (B)
1981                         US$1.00               B23.00
1990                         US$1.00               B25.80
1996                         US$1.00               B25.30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ALRO                  Agricultural Land Reform Office
CVA                   Central Valuation Authority
DOL                   Department of Lands
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
LRA                   Land Reform Area
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
NS3K                  Certificate of Utilization (based on aerial photography)
NS4                   Title Deed or Chanod
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                   Performance Audit Report
PCR                   Project Completion Report
RFD                   Royal Forestry Department
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
Fiscal Year
Government:           October I-September 30
Director-General, Operations Evaluation            Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Dept.              Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group     Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                .      Mr. John Heath



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 8, 1998
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Thailand
Land Reform Areas Project (Loan 2198-THI)
Second Land Titling Project (Loan 3254-TH)
Attached is the Performance Audit report prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) on the above two projects. The Land Reform Areas Project (Loan 2198-TH
for US$17 million) was approved on September 21, 1982 and closed on September 19, 1989,
about nine months behind schedule; an undisbursed balance of US$7.5 million was canceled. The
Second Land Titling Project (Loan 3254-TH) was approved on September 4, 1990 and closed on
September 30, 1996, twelve months after the original closing date; US$0.6 million was canceled
at closing. The Australian Agency for International Development co-financed the Second Land
Titling Project.
The audit aims to derive lessons from these two separate (and uncoordinated) approaches
to land administration in Thailand. In view of the significant differences in the design and
objectives of the two projects, the report presents each separately. The discussion of project
outcome is organized explicitly around the evaluation concepts of relevance, efficacy and
efficiency.
The objective of the Land Reforim Areas Project was to improve the incomes and
livelihoods of 35,000 squatter families located in 192,000 hectares of encroached forest reserve
land in central, northern and northeastern Thailand. This was to be achieved by: (a) degazetting
the reserves to create nine Land Reform Areas; (b) compensating larger farmers for that part of
their holding that would be compulsorily ;purchased for redistribution to smaller farmers and the
landless; (c) issuing farmers with Certificates of Occupancy; (d) building soil conservation and
irrigation works; (e) upgrading feeder roads, schools, health posts and drinking water supply; (f)
bringing the Land Reform Areas under the jurisdiction of provincial administrations; and (g)
strengthening government's capacity to plan and manage projects. The implementing agency was
the Agricultural Land Reform Office (AL RO), a dependency of the Ministry of Agriculture
founded in 1975. The project's title may mislead: although there was some attempt to redistribute
larger holdings, this was an area development rather than a land reform project. Given the
relative openness of access to land in Thai land and the lack of property concentration there was
very little scope for redistributive land ref Drm.
The project responded to the Bank and the Thai government's concern to reduce rural
poverty and natural resource degradation. It was hampered by a weak institutional environment,
the lack of appropriate vehicles for projecl funding, and the limited nature of development
alternatives. Notwithstanding these constraints, the designers of the project could have asked
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



2
more probing questions about the relevance of the design to the objectives of poverty reduction
and environmental conservation. First, regularizing the tenure status of the squatters would not
greatly enhance farmers' tenure security, or necessarily lead them to improve their farms, given
that squatters' rights were generally uncontested, and the occupancy certificate provided by
ALRO was more limited than full title (not allowing farmers to sell their parcels). Second, it was
possible that degazetting of the forest reserves would merely increase the incentives for farmers
to encroach in other areas with a view to forcing further degazetting. Third, redistribution was not
an explicit objective but farmer compensation was expected to absorb 13 percent of project
expenditures; the feasibility of this component was doubtful given the low level of ALRO's
prescribed ceiling on holding size (8 hectares), the small number of holdings above this ceiling
and the general absence of landlessness. Fourth, 28 percent of project expenditures were
expected to be used for strengthening government's project management capacity (above and
beyond ALRO); but during preparation there were clear signs that ALRO was too marginal a
player to coordinate such an initiative.
The project had a mixed record on efficacy, attaining its degazetting, titling and
infrastructure development objectives but falling short in other respects. Physical targets for
roads, schools, health posts and drinking water supply weie exceeded. The land distribution
component did not disburse. The irrigation component shrank and was poorly implemented. Soil
conservation works covered 57 percent of the expected area and were generally rejected by
farmers. The institutional development component expanded to absorb 40 percent of project
expenditures but had limited impact owing to high dependence on foreign consultants and staff
turnover. Provincial governments assumed responsibility for schools and health posts built by the
project, but not roads. The project did not achieve its broader goal of raising farmn yields; partly
because yields were underestimated at appraisal (exaggerating the scope for improvement) and
partly because land quality in the project areas was below the average for the respective regions.
The project cost less than expected (US$19.8 million, not US$31.0 million) but
efficiency was hampered by the high cost of issuing occupancy certificates (US$58 per
certificate, compared to US$32 for full title) and low-cost road construction (US$8,670/km) at
specifications inferior to provincial government norms (helping to explain why these
governments failed to assume responsibility for maintenance). The economic rate of return was
re-estimated at 2 percent, compared to the PCR estimate of 17 percent: the audit estimate was
based on three surveys of household income in the Land Reform Areas, stronger evidence than
the PCR was able to adduce.
In view of the weak performnance on relevance and efficiency, the audit rates project
outcome unsatisfactory. Institutional development impact is rated negligible given the failure to
improve ALRO or government's project management capacity. Sustainability is rated unlikely:
although schools and health posts are being satisfactorily maintained, road maintenanc n is erratic
and ALRO's future seems uncertain. OED rates borrower and Bank performance unsatisfactory,
primarily because the project was poorly identified.
The Second Land Titling Project formed part of a 20-year program launched by the
government in 1984 and supported by the Bank throughout. The project's main objective was to
accelerate the provision of fully-transferable title to privately owned parcels, using a process of
systematic adjudication. The project also sought to complete a national cadastre and increase the
accuracy of property valuation. Project components included base cadastral mapping, ground
surveying (the largest single item, accounting for an estimated 53 percent of project cost), and
support to land administration and valuation work, involving technical assistance and training.



3
Studies commissioned by the First Land Titling Project demonstrated that titles enhanced
access to credit, increased land values and favored higher on-farm investment and input use.
These data substantiated the relevance of land titling as a means of boosting output and farm
incomes, providing compelling support for a second project. Poverty reduction and better natural
resource management were not explicit project objectives.
The second project titled about 9 percent of the estimated total of private parcels in
Thailand. It met all of its physical targets with one significant exception: the titling target was cut
from 3 million to 2 million pacels. This shortfall in project efficacy reflected poor information
about how many parcels remained to be l:itled in each province, making target setting very
arbitrary; it was also a consequence of uncertainties about boundaries with state lands,
inheritance disputes and landowner absenteeism. Also, the valuation objective was not attained
because mainly because government failed to pass enabling legislation. On the other hand, the
available evidence suggests that the second project enhanced access to commercial bank credit
and probably gave as big a boost to off-farm investments as it did to farming itself.
The project scored highly on efficiency because, although the total cost (US$84.7
million) exceeded appraisal estimates by 16 percent, the unit costs of titling (US$32/deed) were
low compared to other Bank projects. The audit estimated an economic rate of return (not
calculated by the project) of 34 percent. It is expected that the increased fiscal revenues generated
by land transaction fees will more than oiffset the subsidy applied to the price that landowners pay
for title. Efficiency would have been even greater if the database about the area remaining to be
titled had been better, and if a ban had been lifted to allow private firms to conduct basic surveys.
Given the project's manifest relevance and efficiency, OED rates project outcome as
satisfactory (not highly satisfactory because of the weaker performance on efficacy). Institutional
development impact is rated as modest, mainly because the Central Valuation Authority was not
strengthened as much as intended. The audit rates sustainability as likely. Bank and borrower
performance are rated as satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory because institutional
weaknesses could have been more fullv addressed, coordination with other land administration
agencies could have been stronger and, giiven the long term nature of the program, a more
concerted effort could have been made to evaluate poverty and environmental impact.
These projects suggest three lessons. First, neither project was grounded in an overall
rural development strategy; without this grounding it was harder to assess titling in relation to
other interventions that may have been more effective for reducing poverty and improving
natural resource management. However, ihe government was not interested in a broad program of
Bank assistance and there was little leverage. Second, clarifying boundaries between state and
private domain is essential in order to define the universe for titling, enable accurate target
setting, and make decisions about whether a second sweep of systematic adjudication is justified
to fill in the gaps left by the first. Third, there is a case for deregulating much of the remaining
one-third of the territory that is nominally under state control, expanding the area eligible for full
title. Much of this state domain consists of degraded and heavily encroached forest reserves that
are not performing vital environmental services; and which the state does not have the means to
protect. The many farmers in these encroached areas are deprived of the benefits-principally,
improved access to formnal credit-extended by the titling program.
Attachment



1
Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities .................................3
Preface .................................5
1. Background .................................7
2. Land Reform Areas Project ................................                        10
Relevance ................................                              10
Efficacy ................................                               12
Efficiency ................................                             14
Institutional Development Impact         ................................ 14
Sustainability           ................................ 15
Performance ........................................                    15
(a) Borrower ................................                         15
(b) Bank ................................ 16
Ratings .................................                               16
3. Second Land Titling Project                  ...                      ................... 18
Relevance                               ...  18
Efficacy                               ...  19
Efficiency                              ...  21
Institutional Development Impact           . . .23
Sustainability                            . . . 23
Performance                              ...23
(a) Borrower .23
(b) Bank .24
Ratings                                ...24
4. Lessons ......                                                                     25
Annexes
A. Basic Data ......................................                                 27
B. Land Reform Areas Project: Supplementary Tables ......................................   35
C. Second Land Titling Project: Economic Analysis ......................................  37
D. Borrower Comments ......................................                          45
Maps






3
PRINCIPAL RATINGS
Loan 2198-TH
Audit                      PCR
Outcome                      Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability               Unlikely                  Likely
Institutional Development    Negligible                Modest
Bank Performance             Unsatisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Loan 3254-TH
Azdit                      ICR
Outcome                      Satisfiactory             Highly satisfactory
Sustainability               Likely                    Likely
Institutional Development    Modest                    Modest
Bank Performance             Satisfactory              Highly satisfactory
Borrower Performance         Satisfiactory             Highly satisfactory
KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE
Loan 2198-TH
Task Manager       Division Chief     Country Director
Appraisal                 W. Panton          0. Price            E. Jaycox
Midterm                   W. Panton          0. Price            E. Jaycox
Completion                C. Choeng;         D. Dowsett-Coirolo   C. Madavo
Loan 3254-TH
Task Manager       Division Chief      Country Director
Appraisal                 Y. Wong            D. Dowsett-Coirolo   C. Madavo
Midterm                   Y. Wong            D. Dowsett-Coirolo   C. Madavo
Completion                F. Byamugisha      J. Gutman           J. Khalilzadeh-Shirazi






5
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) of two projects in Thailand.
i.    The Land Reform Areas Project, for which Loan 2198-TH, in the amount of
US$17 million, was approved in September 1982. The closing date was
September 19, 1989, about nine months behind schedule. The final
disbursement from the loan was made in September 1989, and the balance of
US$7.5 million was canceled.
ii.    The Second Land Titling Project, for which Loan 3254-T, in the amount of
US$30 million, was approved in September 1990. The closing date was
September 30, 1996, twelve months later than originally planned. The final
disbursement from the loan was made in December 1996, and the balance of
US$0.6 million was canceled.
The PAR is also based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), President's Report, the legal
documents, project files, supervision reports, and the findings of an Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) mission that visited Thailand in February 1998 and met with officials of the
Government of Thailand, the implementing agencies, and with persons affected by the project.
The collaboration of these officials and other persons is gratefully acknowledged.
Following customary procedures, copies of the draft audit report were sent to the relevant
government agencies and co-financiers for their review and comments. Comments received from
the Land Titling Project Office have been incorporated into the PAR and reproduced as Annex D.






7
1. Background
1.1    This audit examines two projects that took different approaches to land administration in
Thailand, to extract lessons that may be relevant for the preparation of new projects.I The Bank's
experience with projects bearing on land policy has expanded in recent years but is still very
limited compared to other areas of rural dlevelopment. Further growth of the land portfolio may
be expected. The two projects were implemented consecutively and by different agencies, and
analysis of the SARs suggests there was little cross-fertilization. Also, there were significant
differences in objectives (Table 1). Therefore, the report discusses each project separately. The
discussion of development outcome is organized explicitly according to OED's evaluation
principles: were the operation's goals consistent with the country's overall development strategy
and the Bank's assistance strategy for that country? ("relevance"); did the operation achieve its
stated physical, financial, institutional, or policy-related goals? ("efficacy"); what inputs did it
take to achieve these results, and did benefits exceed costs? ("efficiency"). The lessons section
highlights the issue of relevance, emphas:izing the need for projects to be grounded in an overall
rural development strategy.
1.2    The last Bank review of sector sb-ategy in Thailand was conducted in 1980.3 The relative
lack of policy dialogue since then is probably related to the successful performance of the
agriculture sector (annual growth averaged 4 percent between 1980 and 1990) and the country's
limited need for Bank finance.
1.3    The 1980 report contains a substantial section on land policy issues and, in addition to
providing relevant background for the two projects under audit, draws a number of conclusions
that remain relevant. Key features of the background up to 1980 are as follows. First, land tenure
appears to have been relatively secure, based on a homesteading tradition that recognized the
right of any Thai citizen to claim up to 4 hectares to provide for his family. Attempts after 1954
to formalize property rights led to a plethora of tenure documents with rights and obligations that
government was unable to enforce; even in areas without transferable title (notably, encroached
forest reserves) the land market flourished. Second, the distribution of landholding was relatively
equal, with no apparent trend toward increasing property concentration: nationwide, the Gini
coefficient moved from 47 in 1962 to 43 in 1974, with little variation between regions.4 Third,
owing to these factors, there was not a large landless population. Fourth, farmer access to credit
1. Stefano Pagiola, of the Bank's Environment Department, participated in the audit mission and was responsible for
the economic analysis for the Second Land Titling Project. This analysis will be incorporated as a case study in a
manual for task managers of land administration projects, currently under preparation by ESSD's Thematic Team on
Land Policy.
2. The Bank's recent strategy report highlights the need "not to be timid" on the "long-ignored issue" of land reform
(Rural Development: From Vision to Action, Worl,d Bank, 1997, p. 18).
3. Thailand: Agricultural Development Strategy Review, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, November 1980,
Report No. 3108.
4. In 1974, the distribution of holdings was least equal in the North (Gini: 50) and most equal in the Northeast (Gini:
39) (ibid., p. 10).



8
was relatively good and getting better, with nearly one-third taking loans from banks and
widespread use of informal sources. These trends suggest that there was little scope or
justification for a program of land redistribution; and that, while returns to land titling would
enhance tenure security and access to formal credit, the gains might well be smaller than in other
countries starting from a less favorable base.
Table 1. Salient Features of the Two Projects
Land Reform Areas Project (LRAs)        Second Land Titling Project
Implementing agency    Agricultural Land Reform Office (ALRO)    Department of Lands
Project Location       North, Northeast and Central provinces  North, Northeast and Central provinces
Implementation period   Approved September 1982                 Approved September 1990
Closed September 1989                   Closed September 1996
Objectives             (a) Degazette forest lands encroached on by   (a) Grant secure, documented tenure to rural
small farmers, creating nine LRAs covering   landholders, thereby facilitating their access
192,000 ha and containing 35,000 families   to institutional credit, improving
(b) Improve security of land tenure and  investments in the land, and increasing
intensify agriculture in LRAs (thus reducing   agricultural productivity and family
incentives for further encroachment on  incomes
public forest land)                     (b) Complete an improved national
(c) Introduce soil conservation measures on    cadastre, to facilitate development planning
sloping land to reduce erosion          and land admninistration
(d) Upgrade economic and social        (c) Enable more accurate property valuation
inftastructure to area and national standards   and tax assessments, to strengthen the fiscal
(e) Increase agricultural exports       system and increase government revenues,
(f) Reduce rural poverty                particularly in urban areas
(g) Absorb LRAs within provincial
administrations
(h) Strengthen government's capacity to plan
and manage projects
Components,             (a) Land reform  (9) (10)               (a) Base cadastral mapping (19) (26)
% of base cost         (b) Land compensation (13) (0)           (b) Ground surveying (53) (49)
(Estimtated) (Actual)  (c) Roads (29) (31)                     (c) Urban mapping (4) (4)
(d) Soil conservation (3) (2)          (d) Land administration (8) (10)
(e) Irrigation (9) (1)                  (e) Land valuation (5) (1)
(f) Water supply (1) (1)               (f) Dept. Land institution building (3) (4)
(g) Schools (9) (12)                    (g) Technical assistance & training (7) (6)
(h) Health centers (2) (4)              (h) Studies (1) (<I)
(i) Institutional development (28) (40)
Total lproject cost
(Estimated) (Actual)   (US$3 1.0 million) (US$19.8 million)    (US$73 million) (84.7 million)
1.4    From the late 1950s onwards, the Reserved Forest Act and other measures brought no
less thlan half of the national territory into the state domain. "The selection of many of these
areas bore little relation either to existing land use or to land suitability data. An analysis of the
maps suggests that in 1971 over half of the reserved forest was actually settled agricultural land,
and some villages in forest reserves had been established for more tharn 100 years. Moreover,
almost all of the reserved forest that has been settled appears to be suitable for agriculture."5 The
report makes an implicit case for extensification based on a degazetting of much of the forest
resenre. It explicitly argues for a more rational policy of land use manaLgement, with better
5. ibid., p. 18.



9
coordination between the various agencies involved, and stronger policing by the Royal Forestry
Department (RFD) of a smaller core area of critical environmental importance.
1.5    There was a limited degazetting after 1975: an area equivalent to about 12 percent of the
territory was used to create LRAs (the focus of the first project under review here), providing
occupancy rights (not full title) to establhished farmers (but not the landless). When the Land
Titling Program was launched in 1984, large areas of land still remained off limits for titling.
This is still the case today: about one-third of all land remains nominally under state control. The
size of the state domain does not appear to restrict access to land (owing to government's
inability to control settler encroachment'), but it denies the benefits of full title to many
established farmers. Also, the lack of an adequate resource inventory and the absence of credible
data on land degradation ensures that the state's natural resource conservation efforts remain
hopelessly overextended. Aerial photos show that, in terms of resources to protect-tree cover,
biodiversity-there is sometimes little di:fference between the forest reserve areas and the area
outside. These issues bear on the relevance of the audited projects, suggesting that although they
could succeed on their own terms, they were only addressing part of the overall problem of land
administration. The scope for reducing raral poverty and improving the management of natural
resources was therefore not as great as it might have been.



10
2.  Land Reform Areas Project
Relevance
2.1    When the project was designed there was a concern to address rural poverty issues
6
highlighted in Bank economic reports and by the Resident Representative. There was pressure
to come up with a project that would raise incomes in the poorer rainfed areas (including the
Northeast). Integrated rural development ruled in the Bank of the late 1970s; but this approach
was not adopted in Thailand until later because projects staff judged that there was no
institutional structure to effectively plan and coordinate multidepartmental operations at the local
level. This helps to explain why the Bank chose to develop a project with ALRO, a weak agency
with little track record.
2.2    The project focused on problems posed by the squatter settlement of gazetted forest.
According to the SAR, about 6 out of 26 million hectares of official forest had been encroached
by one million farmers. About two-thirds of the encroached area was reckoned to be suitable for
agriculture, accounting for over 50 percent of the nation's total output of maize and cassava.
Throughout the encroached areas the level of infrastructure and public services was substantially
below that in neighboring, legally settled areas, and agricultural productivity was lower, partly
because public agencies were reluctant to operate in illegally occupied zones.
2.3    The project proposed to address these issues by building on the efforts of the ALRO
(established in 1975), which had jurisdiction over certain tracts of heavily encroached forest that
had been degazetted by the RFD to form LRAs. ALRO's main mission was to improve the
farming practices and livelihoods of established farmers, providing them with a deed of
occupancy: the Certificate 401 allowed for inheritance, but not sale of the parcel, and was
contingent on use of the land for farming. The project sought to increase yields and reduce
erosion, not only by codifying occupancy but also by financing small-scale irrigation and soil
conservation. Complementary investments in roads, schools and health posts were intended to
increase access to markets and provide further incentives for occupants to stay put. The project
also finded purchase, and redistribution by ALRO, of parcels exceeding the prescribed holding
size limnit (8 hectares).
2.4    The weak institutional environment severely reduced the options available for Bank
support to rural development in Thailand in the early 1980s. This constraint granted, the type of
project developed begs a number of questions. First, was the tenure status of the squatters
actually insecure? The SAR notes that some of the villages in the LRAs had been "established
for more than 100 years." Second, if secure tenure is assumed to be a precondition for
sustainable farming, would the provisional certificate of occupancy offered by ALRO lead
6. The Resident Representative reported "...movement of population into previously forested areas, illegal destruction
of the forest and a resulting agricultural system, by farmers lacking legal titles to their lands, yielding low incomes and
gradual soil destruction. The result may be a population potentially sympathetic to 'insurgents"' (Office Memorandum,
Martinusen to van der Heijden, December 23, 1976).



11
farmers to intensify? The certificate could not be used to secure bank loans, restricting the scope
for on-farm investment. In any event, before the project started, farming in the LRAs seemed to
have moved beyond shifting, slash-and-bum techniques, raising questions about the scope for
incremental gains.7 Third, were the squatters significantly poorer than small farmers in areas of
legal settlement? The population of the target areas was described as "typically" having an
income near the absolute poverty line of US$148 per capita; no socioeconomic profile was
prepared before appraisal. and there was no baseline against which project impact could be
measured.
2.5    The design was flawed in two respects. First, there was always a possibility that
degazetting and improving livelihoods in some areas of the forest reserve would lead to
accelerated encroachment on other areas as occupants sought to pressure the government into
releasing even more land for development. The project addressed this issue by offering a
contingent title. This might have been necessary, but it was not sufficient to reduce
encroachment: titling would need to be backed up by policing measures to increase protection of
the remaining forest reserve. This possibility was never explored, partly because relations
between ALRO and the RFD were strained; RFD did not support the principle of degazetting on
which the LRAs were founded.
2.6    Second, there was minimal room for redistributing land in favor of the poor. At the
project's start the poor were defined as 6,700 landless families and the 12,500 families with
holdings under 4 hectares. The land targeted for redistribution would be taken from farmers with
holdings over 8 hectares: the land in excess of this threshold (potentially 38,000 hectares) would
be sold to those with less than the area needed to support a family. However, the SAR indicates
that only about 25 percent of the 38,000 hectares would probably be available for sale to the
poorest; it anticipated that the other 75 percent would be lost to (untargeted) sales from farmers
seeking to preempt ALRO (which would only offer 65 percent of market value for land it
purchased). The farmers targeted by ALRO were hardly large operators with substantial tracts of
idle land: the average size of their farms was 15 hectares. This was a land reform that sought to
transfer land from the small to the even smaller.8
2.7    The project's design was overambitious. It included a component intended to build up
government's project inanagement capacity generally-not just in the area of land reform.
ALRO was a small, marginal player in the government arena, with limited project
implementation experience. Owing partly to its weak track record, ALRO did not enjoy the
confidence of the Prime Minister's Office when the project was prepared. It was therefore
unrealistic for the project's designers to assume that ALRO could take on the coordinating role
presupposed by this component.
7. A Bank mission sent to evaluate the prospects :for a project argued that: "Particularly in the better soil areas, many
farmers are using relatively advanced technology, e.g. mechanical cultivation, legumes, improved seed, etc., and are
highly commercialized. In these circumstances the scope for introducing improved technological packages which will
increase production and incomes may be limited" (Back to Office Report, English and Sjamsu to Price, October 18,
1978).
8. World Bank Office Memorandum (Sociological Issues in the Land Reform Areas Project: Review of Yellow Cover,
Cemea to Sutherland), July 16, 1981.



12
Efficacy
2.8    To what extent did the project realize its stated objectives? Progress was very uneven.
Owing to a change in the LRAs included, the total project area expanded from 192,000 ha to
200,240 ha; for the same reason, the proportion of the project area with farming potential
dropped from 90 percent to 79 percent. The project served 35,713 families, 102 percent of the
appraisal target.
2.9    With respect to land titling, the share of project expenditures (10 percent) was roughly
the sarne as forecast at appraisal and a total of 32,982 farmers were issued Certificate 401s: this
amounts to 94 percent of the target population in the LRAs. Only 2 percent of farmers receiving
401 s were formerly landless, compared to the 15 percent target set at appraisal. The conversion
of 401 s into fully transferable title deeds (NS4s) was mooted at project completion, but no
progress has been made in the period since closing. This is so even for occupants with a
legitirnate right to full title: about 10 percent of the land in LRAs was occupied before gazetting
took place; according to the law these farmers automatically qualify for NS4-but none have
received it. Conversion was not one of the original objectives of the project and the Bank had no
leverage when the matter was belatedly tabled.
2.10   The land distribution component (which was forecast to absorb 13 percent of project
expenditures) remained undisbursed: funds earmarked for purchase of holdings above the size
limit were not drawn upon. At appraisal, 22 percent of farmers were reckoned to be occupying
holdings larger than the 8-hectare ceiling. But during implementation only 10 percent of farmers
transferred land, suggesting either that larger farmers successfully resisted any pressure to sell,
or that they managed to sell before project start up (at a price higher than that offered by ALRO).
2.11   The irrigation component shrank because Pichit, the LRA with the largest irrigation
potential, was dropped from the project. Actual expenditures on irrigation were only 1 percent of
project costs, down from 9 percent at appraisal. Only 53 of the 500 tubewells foreseen at
appraisal were actually drilled. Tubewells were located without regard to the amount of the water
in the aquifer; many could only be used in the rainy season. Most of the rock weirs that were
built were not used by farmers.
2.12   Expenditures on soil conservation (2 percent of project costs) were in line with appraisal
expectations, but the area covered was only 57 percent of the target. The diversion ditches and
broadbased graded banks proposed by the project took up substantial space on the farmers' small
plots and were generally rejected; none were in evidence when the audit was conducted. There
was ample indication during the field visit that farmers are ploughing downslope rather than with
the contour. However, the slopes were generally moderate and at the sites visited in Chiang Rai
and Nakhon Ratchasima there was no sign of gullying. Stubble burning is widespread, a practice
that (according to local extension officers) reduces soil fertility.
2.13   Road expenditures (31 percent of project costs) slightly exceeded project estimates: 669
kilometers of village access roads were built, 156 percent of the appraisal target. These roads are
unsurfaced, 4 meters wide, and with limited provision for drains. The ones traveled during the
field visit were in reasonable condition with little potholing; but drains, if there were any, were
heavily overgrown, and there were signs of gullying on steeper gradients. Upkeep of the roads is
carried out sporadically by ALRO (sometimes by the central office, sometimes by the local



13
office). Contrary to original expectations road maintenance has not been transferred to provincial
government.
2.14   Expenditures on social infrastructure (schools, health posts, drinking water supply)
accounted for 17 percent of project costs, somewhat exceeding appraisal estimates. All the
physical targets for this infrastructure were amply exceeded. However, coverage of the
population in the LRAs was uneven: health posts benefited 20,000 families, schools, 4,200
families and drinking water systems 3,300 families. The schools and health posts are clean, well
maintained and fully staffed. Unlike roads, responsibility for these facilities has been fully
assumed by local government.
2.15   Institutional development became the largest component of the project, capturing 40
percent of expenditures (up from 28 percent at appraisal). This does not appear to have resulted
in long-term capacity building. First, there was heavy dependence on foreign consultants:
expenditures accounted for 53 percent of the institutional development impact component,
compared to the 46 percent projected at appraisal. Second, there has been considerable staff
turnover at ALRO: few of the senior staff interviewed during the audit mission were with the
agency when the project was implemented. Third, the capacity of ALRO's branch offices has not
been strengthened: for example, survey work and some road maintenance is still done by the
Bangkok office. Fourth, contrary to the project's objectives, the LRAs have not been brought
under the jurisdiction of provincial governments: they are still treated as administrative enclaves.
For example, local extension agents apparently do not intervene without ALRO oversight
("coordination").
2.16   The scale of the project's incremental benefits appears to have been small. To begin
with, the farmers in the LRAs were already installed and producing before project start up. The
growth of farm output was contingent almost exclusively on rainfed yield improvements because
there was no unused land available for incorporation to farming and little scope for irrigation.
The project's designers appear to have underestimated the level of development before the
project. Data for 1981-82 indicate that yields for the principal crops were actually 20 to 40
percent higher than the SAR estimate for the project's base year. Between project start up and
year 10, yields of staples performed pooily: in 1992-94, the yield of cassava was 32 percent
lower than in 1981-82; the yields of rice and mungbean fell by 14 percent and 26 percent,
respectively; the maize yield increased by 9 percent, compared to the 31 percent increase
forecast in the SAR.
2.17   The yield performance of each LRA was inferior to the average for the region in which it
was located: this reflects the poorer-than.average quality of the land in the LRAs and the
project's failure to achieve an intensification of farming. (In the North and Northeastern LRAs,
the amount of fertilizer applied per hectare is only three-quarters the average for the respective
region). A corresponding expansion in the proportion of household income derives from off-farm
work. Performance was particularly weak in the Northeast region, which has the poorest soils. In
this region, declining yields from cassava have, in the past few years, been partially offset by the
returns from tree crop diversification (lychee loganberry).
2.18   Given the failure of the project to bring about a substantial intensification of farming, its
primary contribution to reducing poverty rests on the roads, schools and health posts that were



14
built. The group that may be assumed to be the poorest-the landless-was not served by the
project because no land was redistributed. The environmental impact appears to have been
equally weak. Farmers failed to adopt soil conservation practices, and encroachment on
neighboring areas of reserve forest (much of which are as degraded as the LRAs themselves)
continues unabated.
Efficiency
2.19   The project cost US$19.8 million, not US$31 million as anticipated. This is mainly
because the localities included in the project changed: an area scheduled for major irrigation
works was substituted by another (rainfed area) whose development was less expensive. Costs
were also reduced by the devaluation of the Thai currency and because ALRO did not
redistribute land and therefore did not have to assume compulsory purchase costs.
2.20   Cost efficiency was weak on two counts. First, the cost of issuing an ALRO certificate of
occupancy was US$58, compared to the US$32 that it cost to issue a title deed under the Second
Land T'itling Project. Given the doubtful incremental tenure security conferred by the ALRO
certificates, their cost seems excessive. Second, mean costs for road construction were only
US$8,670/kin, compared to the US$13,488 forecast at appraisal. Both figures seem very low. In
1995, construction of rural access roads in China was costed at US$25,000/km, based on labor-
intensive techniques. Given that wages are higher in Thailand it is doubtful that a comparable
road could have been built for this amount, particularly given that most were constructed on
rolling terrain. Owing to ALRO's budget constraints, road maintenance is currently being
skimped: in the hilly North region, costs average US$675/km compared to the US$3,000/kln that
is typical for China.
2.21   The economic rate of return was re-estimated at 2 percent, compared to the Project
Completion Report (PCR) estimate of 17 percent. This discrepancy reflects the growth of farm
incomre, which appears to have been overestimated in the PCR. The audit estimate is based on
farm surveys conducted in each of the project LRAs in 1984, 1987 and 1990.9 These surveys
show fiat net farm income grew for each of the LRAs in the North region, fell in the soil-
degraded Northeast, and showed mixed performance in the Center. Using the survey data for
these three years, the average of the two lowest values was subtracted from the average of the
two highest values. The result was then used to derive an annual growth rate of farm income,
projected outwards to 1996, which is taken as the year of full development. Incomes were based
on adjusted border prices for tradables and surveyed farmgate prices for non-tradables. The
growth in farm income was discounted by 10 percent, to allow for the growth that it is assumed
would have occurred without the project-a conservative estimate given the vigorous expansion
of yields in neighboring areas.
Institutional Development Impact
2.22   Despite the project's avowed focus on institutional development (40 percent of actual
project expenditures), its impact in this respect appears to have been very limited. When the
9. The aLuthors of the PCR took their data from the National Rural Development Program, not from actual project
beneficiaries.



15
project was designed ALRO showed severe limitations as an executing agency and its capacity
was not significantly strengthened during implementation. Until the end, the agency depended on
external assistance for preparing subprojects. At Yellow Cover review it was pointed out that the
actual contribution to local capacity building would be quite small because the project proposed
to spend three times as much on foreign consultants as it would spend on training national staff.
Continuity was weak because staff that were trained by the project generally dispersed
afterwards.
2.23   The objective of bringing the LR.As under the administrative control of provincial
government (and absorbing the local teams) was not achieved. Also, there was a failure to
transfer responsibility for road maintenance to provincial government, preventing ALRO from
focusing on its core business of land reform and tenure regularization. The project had little
positive impact on institutional developiment at the beneficiary level. The 89 cooperatives
established in the LRAs are not based on farmer initiative. A Bank mission in 1978 reported that
the cooperatives were "practically run by government officials," a circumstance that does not
seem to have altered. The coops' record on loan repayment is very poor and the majority are
insolvent.
Sustainability
2.24   The schools and health posts built by the project are now adequately maintained by
provincial government and the benefit they offer will probably be sustained. The benefits
generated by access roads seem more precarious given the weak maintenance record. Although
anti-erosion works have been abandoned by farmers, the recent diversification into tree crops at
Nakhon Ratchasima will, in a modest way, combat soil erosion and raise farm incomes, setting
an example that could be followed by other LRAs. Overall, however, there are few specifically
on-farm benefits to sustain, given the lack of a substantial yield response. ALRO's farmer credit
program is not sustainable; its revolving fund recovers only 60 percent of the loans disbursed to
cooperative members.
2.25   ALRO's budget has been severely pruned in the past year or so and there are some
doubts about its future. Unlike the (successful) land titling program, the land reform program is
not broadly endorsed by government. Although at completion the Bank proposed a follow-on
project in other LRAs, this was vetoed by the Prime Minister's Office. ALRO remains out on a
limb and unless it is pulled into closer coordination with other government agencies (in
particular, the RFD, the various extension agencies, and the Department of Lands [DOL]) it is
likely to become increasingly irrelevant.
Performance
(a) Borrower
2.26   During project preparation, the borrower took very few steps to find out what farmers in
the LRAs actually wanted (the PCR notes that settlers were "initially hostile"), helping to explain
why the erosion control measures and small-scale irrigation works were generally rejected. At
appraisal it was intended that farmers would provide free labor for construction works; but hired



16
labor was ultimately used. Also, the scope for land redistribution was not properly ascertained.
During implementation (and since closing), ALRO has continued to adopt a very paternalistic
approach to farmers, including futile attempts to restrict diversification into off-farm activities
on the grounds that this contravenes the farm vocation of the LRAs. There was only weak
coordination between ALRO and other agencies-Department of Agricultural Extension,
Department of Land Development, RFD-that were expected to provide complementary
services.
2.27   The borrower also neglected monitoring and evaluation. Consultants designed a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, but ALRO failed to implement, arguing that it was
too complicated. The system was simplified, but the revisions were not adopted. The PCR
suggests that there were not enough permanent staff assigned to project monitoring. The
borrower wishes that at the start of the project the type of data needed for M&E had been more
clearly specified by the Bank.
2.28   A number of issues were left unresolved at completion, most notably the transformation
of the occupancy certificates into full land title and the transfer of ALRO's responsibilities in the
LRAs to other line agencies. ALRO took few steps to strengthen the capacity of its provincial
branch offices and the role of provincial officers was poorly defined: development of a
decentralized surveying capacity remained limited.
(I) Bank
2.29   Responding to pressure to address rural poverty in Thailand the Bank was hard put,
given ithe weak institutional framework, to find an appropriate vehicle or implementing agency.
However, the Bank must shares responsibility with the borrower for a number of design flaws in
the project that was ultimately identified. The project was based on a number of poorly argued
assumptions about the best way to tackle deforestation and rural poverty, some of which were
highlighted at Yellow Cover review. The agricultural potential of the LRAs was overestimated
and consultation with farmers was inadequate.
2.30   Supervision was generally satisfactory. The supervision intensity was consistent with
regional norms and there was continuity in staffing. The Bank dealt flexibly with the change in
areas included in the project and gave good technical guidance. Bank advice led to some
improvement in ALRO work procedures, particularly with respect to cadastral survey: between
project start and closing the survey capability increased from 32,000 to 400,000 hectares per
year. However, support from the resident mission was weak and procurement was substantially
delayed by the inability to provide in-country clearance.
Ratings
2.31  In view of the limited relevance of this project to the objectives of sustainable land
management and poverty reduction, and the poor economic rate of return, the audit rates the
development outcome as unsatisfactory, contrary to the PCR's rating of satisfactory. The PCR
rating is based on an overestimate of the project's impact on farm incomes in the LRAs.
Institutional development impact is rated negligible because management and planning capacity
of the implementing agency was not enhanced by the project, there was no incorporation of



17
LRAs by provincial government and no strengthening of coordination with other rural
development agencies. Sustainability is rated unlikely because of dwindling govermment
commitment to land reform and the implementing agency's severe budget constraints. The audit
rates borrower and Bank performance as unsatisfactory. This is primarily because both parties
performed poorly during the identification and preparation phase, creating a project that
responded weakly to the development needs of Thailand.



18
3.  Second Land Titling Project
Relevance
3.1    The project was the second of three operations in support of a 20-year land titling
program launched by the government in 1984. The aim of the program was to adopt an
accelerated approach to providing full legal title (NS4) to the parcels eligible for private
ownership. Government was concerned that the existing approach to land titling was taking too
long; more vigorous systematic adjudication, involving a government promotion campaign
phased by region, was deemed essential to provide timely coverage of all private lands. By 1987,
about one-third of private parcels (22 percent of privately owned land) had been issued with
NS4. The second project sought to build on the achievements of the first by issuing a further 3
million NS4s (equivalent to roughly 15 percent of all private parcels). The project aimed to
improve, first, landholders' living standards (via titling); and second, the planning capacity and
revenue base of the government (via cadastral mapping and strengthening of the land valuation
authority). The discussion in this section will be limited to the first of these objectives.
3.2    The project was founded on the assumption that granting full title would facilitate
landowners' access to institutional credit, increase investments in land, and raise agricultural
productivity and incomes, outcomes that were fully consistent with the strategy of the
govermnent and of the Bank. Data from surveys carried out in 1984-86, under the auspices of
the First Land Titling Project, suggested that these outcomes were indeed being achieved.10 The
findings have been internationally influential and the main points merit quotation in full.
3.3    First, it was found that farmers without title deed enjoyed reasonably high tenure
security. Second, depending on the province, titled farmers who provided land as collateral were
offered between 52 percent and 521 percent more bank credit than untitled farmers. Third,
untitled land was 43 percent to 80 percent less valuable than titled land. Fourth, capital stock and
input use were substantially higher for titled land, except in the case of one of the four provinces
(Lop Buri) where the results were not statistically significant. Fifth, titled land was more likely
to have been improved: the incidence of bunding was 20 percent to 31 percent higher, while
stump clearing occurred 9 percent to 14 percent more frequently. Overall, productivity was 12
percent to 27 percent higher on titled land. These positive effects of titling vary substantially in
magnitude between provinces; but in no cases did titling have a negative effect.
3.4    These survey results provided powerful evidence in support of the relevance of the land
titling program to Thailand's development needs. In addition, the first project had demonstrated
that there was a strong demand from landholders for full title and strong commitment by the
government to the program, sound reasons for continuing Bank support. There was good reason
to believe that the positive development outcome of the first project would be replicated in the
10. The surveys were carried out in 1984-85 in Lop Buri, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Khon Kaen provinces, and in
1985-86 in Chaiyaphum province. The findings are reported in G. Feder, T. Onchan, Y. Chalamwong, and C.
Hongladarom, Land Politics and Farm Productivity in Thailand, Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1988.



19
second. Although the second project would target other provinces, there was an overlap with
regions (North, Northeast) covered by the first project; and it was a reasonable presumption that
conditions in the provinces surveyed were representative of the new provinces that would be
added. The scope of the second project remained essentially the same as the first, and during
preparation there was no attempt to review the importance of land titling in relation to broader
land administration issues.
Efficacy"1
3.5    By the end of the second projecl:, 53 percent of the estimated total of private parcels in
Thailand (20.6 million) had received title deeds: 33 percent had been titled before the program
began in 1984, 11 percent were titled under the first project (1984-90) and the remaining 9
percent were titled under the second pro ject (1990-94). Annual production of title deeds
averaged 500,000 parcels in the second project, compared to 270,000 in the first project.
3.6    The second project met target for the number of adjudication parties (30) and exceeded
its target for the number of branch land offices established (67). All targets for aerial
photography and cadastral surveying and mapping were either achieved or exceeded.
3.7    There was one major shortfall in relation to expectations at appraisal. The target for
issuance of title deeds was reduced from 3 million to 2 million. This was partly because some of
the provinces originally included were found to already have a high proportion of titled land.
However, the main issue was the lack of information about the total number and area of parcels
making it difficult to set realistic titling targets. A draft of the ICR states that: "Estimates of
total provincial parcel numbers are still proving difficult to obtain, with the result that efforts to
focus annual title outputs on them have been stalled. Field adjudication teams are still organized
around production targets stated in Department of Land regulations. Little attention is paid to the
estimated number of parcels in a province."12 Without better information about the universe it
was dealing with, some questions arise about the basis on which DOL chose between the
provinces when it deployed the adjudication teams.
3.8    The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) estimates that 20 percent of the area
scheduled for inclusion in the program was left out, listing the following reasons: in areas next to
forest reserves and LRAs it was not clear where the boundaries lay; landholders were absent;
inheritance claims had not been settled; and banks failed to release existing land certificates that
were being used to secure loans. It is not clear how the 20 percent estimate was derived given the
lack of information about the land area eligible for titling; interprovincial variation around this
mean was probably significant-but presumably difficult to estimate.
11. The audit did not examine the urban component of the Second Land Titling Project, which absorbed only 4
percent of the base cost.
12. ICR draft dated October 7, 1994 (paragraph 5.19).



20
3.9    There is still no survey evidence available concerning the specific impact of the second
titling project on credit access, agricultural investment and incomes.13 The audit mission
attempted to make up for this by using the available secondary data. However, these data are
typically aggregated at the provincial level, making it difficult to identify the effects of land
titling because there is no way to control for the substantial intra-provincial differences, on the
one hanid in agroclimatic and socioeconomic conditions, and on the other, the area covered by
titles issued during the second project (in Lampang, 70 percent of the area was covered; in
neighboring Phrae, only 5 percent). Also, given that there were widespread titling efforts in the
North, Northeast and central regions during the first two projects, it was difficult to carry out
paired comparisons of titled and untitled areas.14
3.10    Taking due note of these caveats, the secondary data tend to bear out the findings of the
earlier studies with respect to access to credit. Between 1991-92 and 1995-96, for each region,
total credit use (formal plus informal) rose faster for those provinces where the second project
had operated than for the region as a whole. Average increase in credit use for provinces not
included in either the first or second project was 22 percent, compared to 31 percent for second
project provinces. Given the possibility of using title to secure loans it might be expected that the
project's impact on the use of bank credit would be even higher than for credit as a whole. This
was indeed the case. The average increase in the use of formal credit was 50 percent in second
project provinces compared to 37 percent in provinces outside the titling program. For the period
in question, the growth in the use of credit was substantially higher in provinces covered by the
first project, compared to those under the second project, suggesting that there may be some lag
before the full effects of land titling on credit use are felt.
3.11    Similar attempts were made to use secondary data (on input use and crop yields) to
examine the effects of titling on farm production. The results were inconclusive. For example,
the yield changes in each province were very sensitive to the definition of initial and final years,
even when moving averages were used. In some cases, the expected positive correlation was
observed, in others there was either a small or a negative correlation.
3.12   Titling possibly gave as large a boost to non-farm activities as it did to farming itself.
The secondary data indicate that, in all regions between 1981 and 1992, the non-farm income of
rural households grew faster than farm income. The richest farming region (Center) experienced
the highest growth of off-farm income (14 percent per year, compared to 9 percent for farm
income), suggesting that a vigorous farm economy will serve as a catalyst for small businesses
and, no less important, for investments in real estate (which appreciated sharply between the
mid-1980s and mid-1990s). Interviews conducted during the audit mission revealed that one of
the main reasons farmers want titles is to help them secure commercial bank loans; these would
13. A socio-economic evaluation was commissioned by the first project and completed during the second project. It
compared a 1987 baseline survey with a 1992 follow-up survey for Chiang Mai and Buri Rarn, two provinces not
covered by the second project (see T. Onchan and S. Aungsumalin, Socio-Economic Evaluation of the Land Titling
Project, Bangkok: Kasetsart University, 1993). The results of the Evaluation are broadly consistent with the earlier
findings by Feder et al., 1988, op. cit. A third impact study was commissioned under the second project but the results
are not yet available.
14. Attempts to evade this problem by constructing a time line (comparing areas that were titled first with areas that
were titled subsequently and using this as a proxy for a "with/without" comparison) were frustrated by the difficulty of
pinpointing the moment in time when particular areas were titled.



21
not necessarily be invested on-farm. However, it is not possible with the available information to
assess the relative impact of title on the farm and non-farm incomes of rural households.
(Comnercial bank managers are reluctant to talk even in general terms about the use to which
farmers put their loans.)
3.13   The land titling program has helped to raise revenue for government in the form of fees
generated from land transactions.15 Revenues have risen mainly because titling has contributed
to a rise in the number of land transactions and (to a much lesser extent) because there is now
less underevaluation of land. Fees applied to land transactions amount to roughly 10 percent of
the sale price, compared to 2 percent in Australia. These high charges may reduce the incentive
for buyers to accurately report the price they paid.
3.14   Most of the increase in transactions and the revenue growth actually took place under the
first project: the annual number of transactions rose from 5.9 million in 1984 to a peak of 11.7
million in 1990, declining thereafter to around 7 million per year. Owing to this slowdown in the
land market, in real terms, revenues remained flat throughout the second project. Nevertheless,
even at 7 million, the number of land tranasactions is very high by international standards (it
represents one-third of all private parcels; in Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) countries less than one-tenth of properties change hands every year).
Efficiency
3.15   The actual project cost (US$84.7 million) exceeded appraisal estimates by 16 percent;
the largest contributing factor was the higher-than-expected cost of base cadastral mapping and
ground survey work (associated vehicle, furniture and equipment costs rose from US$5 to US$15
million). This was partly driven by overoptimistic assumptions at appraisal about the scope for
reducing ground survey costs by conversion of existing maps.
3.16   Based on expenditures made under the land titling component alone, the cost of each
title deed was US$32 (the same as the appraisal estimate), or US$34 per hectare.16 To these costs
it is reasonable to add some of the expenditures incurred by other components (institution
building, technical assistance and training) because without them the project would probably
have been less effective. Adding half these overhead costs results in a cost per title of US$35
(US$31 per hectare). This is consistent with altemative estimates (Annex B Table 2), which
indicate that costs in Thailand are low by comparison with selected other countries.
3.17   The return to titling was not calculated in the SAR or ICR. The audit estimate is based
on two assumptions: (i) that one-quarter of the area titled derives no benefit from titling; and (ii)
that the benefits of titling on land which previously had a Certificate of Utilization (NS3K) title17
are half as great as the benefits of titling on land with lesser or no titles. The net present value of
15. These comprise; a transaction fee (2 percent ofthe official valuation); stamp duty (0.5 percent of the official
valuation); personal income tax (5 percent or more of the income derived from selling the property); and a business
tax (3.3 percent of the sale price).
16. Constant 1995 prices. For the first project the cost was US$24 per title.
17. The NS3K is based on aerial photography alone while the NS4 involves ground surveying, photomap surveying
and/or photomap conversion.



22
the project's incremental benefits is US$280 million, with an economic rate of return of 34
percent. Even assuming that titling produces minimal or no benefit in some areas, the overall
benefits are large enough to justify the total project cost of US$85 million. The estimated rate of
return is robust to changes in assumptions made about input use, yields, overhead costs and the
size of the area where titling brings no discernible benefit.
3.18   One question raised by the audit was the justification for subsidizing the cost to the
landowner of the NS4: landowners paid under US$5 for the title deed, about 15 percent of the
real cost. Project staff argued that the subsidy was necessary to jump start the program and in
order not to deter the poorest farmers. Interviews with farmers suggested that most would have
been willing to pay close to the real cost for the title. If it is assumed that the non-poor were
more l:ikely to be better informed about the titling program and made up a disproportionately
large share of the beneficiaries, it could be argued that the subsidy was not well targeted. On the
other hand, there would have been a cost involved in means testing applicants. In any event, the
governtment will recover the subsidy in the long term because titling tends to increase the number
of land transactions, increasing the revenue derived from fees (footnote 15).
3.19   A more important consideration is the efficiency with which the titling campaign was
conducted. There is some indication that because of inefficiencies in the deployment of survey
teams and unevenness in the promotion campaign, the breadth of coverage was suboptimal
(certainly, there were large differences between provinces in achieving titling targets). At some
point a decision must be made as to whether a second sweep is justified to fill in gaps left by the
first attempt at systematic adjudication. The problem is that because targets are set in terms of
the number of titles to be issued (which amounts to a guess), there is no incentive to quantify the
area that remains to be covered, and therefore very little indication of how much work remains
to be done. The field visit in Lampang and Kalasin suggested that (partly owing to rotation
policies) staff in branch offices have strikingly little knowledge about the geography of the
province in which they are working (e.g., they have difficulty in locating LRAs).
3.20   Deciding whether or not to conduct a second sweep should be driven by cost
considerations. Costs are difficult to estimate, not only because there is insufficient information
about the area left to cover, but also because the real cost of the alternative (sporadic
adjudication) is poorly quantified. Data on sporadic adjudication costs is limited partly because
there are no private surveyors competing with government: the law bars private firms from
conducting basic surveys (they can only perform re-surveys and subdivisions), apparently on the
questionable premise that, compared to public servants, private enterprise is more prone to
corruption.
3.21   There may also be an efficiency loss resulting from the failure to make full use of the
data collected in the course of surveying. Data about the boundaries and characteristics of the
parcel and certain characteristics of the landowner are typed onto the title deed. Branch offices
could simultaneously enter this information into a database that could be used for planning and
property tax assessments. However, data are not being stored in this manner even though the
incremental cost in terms of computerization and staff training is probably quite small.



23
Institutional Development Impact
3.22  Institutional development impact was lower than expected. The opening of new branch
offices increased public access to land administration services but there are still substantial
delays in carrying out land surveys. Only 22 of the 300 land offices are equipped with
computers. There has been substantial ilmprovement in the land database, aided by the
introduction of new technology for survey control, aerial photography and cadastral mapping,
and by the high quality of technical assistance from the Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau. Although staff training targets were met, many of those trained subsequently
left the DOL owing to the low salaries and limited career path available; it is not clear how many
of the staff who defected subsequently joined the ranks of private surveyors (an area where
capacity remains very limited).
3.23   The project objective of strengthening the Central Valuation Authority (CVA) was not
realized. The main obstacle was govermnent's failure to adopt a Property Valuation Bill that
would allow for expansion and upgrading of CVA, giving it independence of the DOL (which
sees its mandate as surveying, titling and registration). Failure to pass this legislation reflects the
lack of political will for raising the property tax (assessed at a mere 0.05 percent of rural land
value), or for improving the low rates of collection. Given its present status as an orphan of
DOL, CVA cannot provide an adequate career path it is difficult for it to hang on to well-trained
staff: of 16 staff educated in Australia with funds from the project, only 6 remain in CVA.
Valuation data are only partially computerized and hard to manipulate. There is still a substantial
lag between changes in the market price of land and updating of property valuation. CVA
estimates that valuation data underestimate the sale price by about 20 percent.
Sustainability
3.24   There are good prospects that the project's benefits will be sustained, mainly owing to
the long-term nature of efficiency gains in the operation of land markets, in landowners'
improved access to formal credit and in the continuing stream of fiscal revenues generated by an
active land market. Sustainability has been enhanced by the government's commitment to a 20-
year program: the second project was succeeded by a third that is now nearing completion; and a
fourth project is mooted. The physical infrastructure built by the second project-both at central
and branch level-may be expected to endure. However, because the growth of institutional
capacity was limited, this will make only a modest contribution to sustainability. Institutional
capacity will be put to the test when Ausiralian technical assistance is withdrawn at the end of
the third project.
Performance
(a) Borrower
3.25   Strong government commitment was critical for the success of this project. All loan
covenants were complied with in a timely manner. As implementing agency, the DOL carried
out its mandate with a high degree of pro6essionalism. DOL performed its core functions well
(surveying and titling) but efforts to strengthen the capacity of its ward, the CVA, were less



24
effective reflecting a certain lack of commitment to the valuation mission. Communication
between the various divisions of DOL was insufficient, hampering planning. Neither the creation
of a Technical Planning Committee in 1992, nor the introduction of a Project Implementation
Plan, appear to have remedied a coordination problem that is inherent within DOL's tradition of
vertical reporting. This organizational style also helps to explain the limited coordination with
other agencies involved in land administration, particularly the RFD and the ALRO. This
contributed to the difficulty of adjudication in areas on the boundary between state and private
lands. It was not until the end of the second project that DOL began inviting the RFD to review
the maps it was generating.
(b) Bank
3.26   The design of the second project did not vary substantially from the first and this may
explain the relatively low commitment of staff time up to appraisal (42 weeks compared to 72
planned). The limited economic analysis for the second project is defensible, given the solid
evidence about the positive return to titling that was provided by studies commissioned under the
first project. As the first project provided a workable model there was arguably little to be gained
from investing more in preparing the second. Linkages to broader poverty and environmental
issues could have been explored more thoroughly during preparation. However, it is not clear
that the government would have supported a broadening of the agenda, and the Bank had only
limited leverage. Moreover, the project succeeded partly because it was relatively simple; adding
other components may well have been counterproductive. On the other hand, given the long-term
nature of the program, it would have been appropriate for a second project to make a higher
investment in impact evaluation: the database for assessing poverty and environmental impacts is
still limited. The supervision input (58 staff weeks) was lower than the average for Bank projects
but the outcome was generally satisfactory, enhanced by the excellent quality of the relationship
between the Bank task managers, staff in the executing agency and the Australian technical
advisors.
Ratings
3.27   OED rates outcome as satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory because the project
failed to meet its original titling target and also did not grapple with broader land administration
issues, notably the unclear boundaries between private and public land. OED concurs with the
ICR in rating sustainability as likely and institutional development impact as modest. OED finds
Bank performance and borrower performance to have been satisfactory rather than highly
satisfactory, because institutional weaknesses could have been more fully addressed,
coordination with other land administration agencies could have been stronger, and more
provision could have been made for evaluating the impact of land titling on poverty reduction
and natural resource management.



25
4.  Lessons
4.1    Land titling and land reform efforts need to be grounded in an overall rural development
strategy that weighs the relative cost and likely impact of various alternatives for reducing rural
poverty and improving natural resource management. However, this principle was hard to apply
in Thailand at the time when the two audited projects were implemented because the government
had very little interest in a broad prograrn of Bank assistance and the Bank's leverage was
correspondingly low (paragraph 1.2).
4.2    The success of systematic adjudiication in Thailand owes much to circumstances that
may not apply elsewhere. In other countries, for example, there may be viable forms of
communal land management; and, in the absence of an inflation in property values comparable
to 1980s Thailand, the demand for titles may be much less. Nevertheless, Thailand
demonstrates that systematic adjudication can be a cost-efficient strategy with powerful
development effects. To maximize efficiency, there should be close coordination between all
land administration agencies (paragraph 3.25). Moreover, targets should be established in terms
of area covered, not number of titles issued (paragraph 3.27). A focus on area targets will
provide titling agencies with an incentive to clarify boundaries between private and state domain
and give a clearer sense of the gaps left by a first sweep of systematic adjudication. In the
absence of data about the size of these gaps it will be difficult for the government to make an
informed decision about whether to conduct a second sweep, or simply to leave the areas
uncovered to sporadic adjudication.
4.3    There is a need to provide farmers in the Land Reform Areas with efficient land
surveying services leading to full (NS4) litle (paragraphs 2.9 and 2.20), define and mark forest
boundaries to enable the titling of contiguous lands (paragraph 3.8), and share land information
data more effectively between government agencies (paragraph 3.21). All these undertakings are
best programmed and implemented within a common policy and institutional framework for land
management and administration. In Thailand, such a framework would enhance the coordination
of policies and programs undertaken by the various agencies responsible for land reform, land
titling and registration, forestry and land conservation, property valuation and property tax
assessment.
4.4    The case for freeing up land in state hands should be carefully considered (paragraph
1.5). The return to deregulation, if accompanied by appropriate policing of core reserve areas,
will likely generate larger social benefits than titling areas already in the private domain where
land rights are not a source of conspicuous conflict. In Thailand, areas in the private domain
offered relatively secure tenure to farmers before the titling program. A large number of farmers
occupy reserve land that, in many cases, is appropriate for farming; land that does not offer
critical environmental services and is, in any case, beyond the means of the government to
protect. Farmers on encroached reserve land are deprived of the benefits-principally, improved
access to formal credit-extended by the titling program.
18. In Africa, the retums to land titling have so far been weak; here and in many other places, rural credit access is
constrained by the high transactions cost of operating in sparsely populated areas; providing land title would do little
to relieve the basic constraint.






27                                Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT (LoAN 2198-TH)
Key Project Data
Appraisal      Actual or        Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs (US$ million)      31.0           19.8                64
Loan amount (US$ million)              17.0            9.5                56
Cancellation (US$ million)              --             7.5                --
Date physical components completed   03/31/1988    06/01/1990             --
Number of beneficiaries (families)    35,000         35,713               102
Total area in project Land Reform    192,000         200,240             104
Areas (hectares)
Farm area in project Land Reform     173,000         158,395              92
Areas (hectares)
Farm area covered by Certificate 401    ns           115,480
(hectares)
N. of farmers receiving Certificate    ns*           32,982               --
401
Cost per Certificate 401 (US$)         ns*             58                 --
Incremental fann output (tonnes)      21,000         34,600              165
Roads and tracks (kilometers)          430             669               156
Soil conservation (hectares covered)  4,480           2,560               57
Irrigation: tubewells (number)         500             53                 11
Water supply: dugwells (number)        130             229                176
Schoolrooms (number)                   115             160               139
Health posts (number)                   10             22                220
Economic rate of return (%)             14           17(ICR)
ns = Not specified
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY83   FY84  FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    .1     1.3   3.5    7.1       11.3    16.0    17.0    17.0
Actual (US$M)                --     0.3   1.1    2.1       3.2     5.7      8.7    9.5
Actual as % of appraisal    --    23.1  31.4   29.6    28.3    35.6    51.2   55.9
Date of final disbursement: September 1.9, 1989.



Annex A                                      28
Project Dates
Original                   Actual
Identification                                    --                       11/76
Preparation                                       --                        9/78
Appraisal                                         --                        3/81
Negotiations                                      na                        7/82
Board Approval                                    na                      9/21/82
Loan Signature                                    na                      9/29/82
Loan Effectiveness                              12/82                     6/30/83
Loan Closing                                   12/31/88                   9/19/89 a
Loan Completion                                3/31/88                      6/90
a. Loan was prepared by RTG.
na Not Available
Mission Data
Date     No. of Staff days Specializations Performance  Rating   Types of
(monthlyear) persons  infield  representeda    ratingb    trenaC   problemsd
Appraisal        3/81        4       28       FAE, AR           --
Supervision 1    11/82       1        2          FA           NR e
Supervision 2    6/83        1        4          FA            NR
Supervision 3    10/83       1        3          FA             1          2          p
Supervision 4    3/84        2        12         2A            2           1          p
Superv:ision 5   11/84       2        6          2A             2          1          F
Supervision 6    2/85        1        1          A             2           1          F
Superviision 7   8/85        1        3          A              1
Superviision 8   3/86        2        2         A,R           NR
Supervision 9    7/86        4        5         2AER            2
Supervision 10    4/87       3        4         A, 2E           2
Supervision 11    7/87       1        4           A           NR
Supervision 12    10/87      1        2           A            NR
Supervision 13    4/88       2        9          2A            2
Supervision 14    11/88      3        8         2AF            2
Supervision 15    6/89       3        10        2AE            2
Supervision 16    2/90       1        5           A           NR
Completion    Sep/Oct 91     3       24         E,2S           --
a. A=Agriculturalist; E=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst; R=Rural Engineer; S=Sociologist.
b. I=problem-free or minor problems; 2=moderate problems.
c. I=Improving; 2=stationary.
d. P-Political; F=Financial.
e. NR=Not rated (no Form 590 prepared or Form 590 does not show rating as for Supervision 1).



,!9                                   Annex A
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    FY    Total
78    79    80    81    82    83    84    85    86    87    88    89    90
Through appraisal    0.3  32.6  61.8  36.1                                                              130.9
Appraisal through          0.2         44.0   6.4                                                        50.6
board approval
Board approval                                5.1   5.7                                                  10.8
through effectiveness
Supervision                0.1   3.1   9.5   5.8  12.5  10.9  10.2   4.7   6.8   9.2  10.1  10.8    93.7
Total                0.3  32.9  64.9  89.6  17.3  18.2  10.9  10.2   4.7   6.8   9.2  10.1  10.8   286.0
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                       Loan no.       Amount              Board date
(US$ million)
Land Titling Project                             2440             na            06/01/1984
Second Land Titling Project                      3254          US$30m           09/04/1990
Third Land Titling Project                       3797         US$118.1          09/22/1994






31                               Annex A
Basic Data Sheet
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT (LOAN 3254-TH)
Key Project Data
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                 US$73.0m        US$84.7m             86
Loan amount                         US$30.Om        US$29.4m             98
Cofinancing                          US$5.2m        US$5.4m              96
Cancellation                            --          US$0.6m              --
Date physical components completed    09/30/1994    09/30/1996           --
Title deeds issued                  3,000,000/a     2,042,397            68
Branch Land Offices established         62             67               108
Adjudication parties                    30             30                100
New officials appointed                509            1,978             389
Overseas training (staff months)       536             346               65
Economic rate of return           Not calculated       X%                --
Cost per title deed issued            US$20          US$32               160
a. Revised to 2,096,090
Cumulative Estimated and ActiLual Disbursements
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    2.4     7.5    15.0    24.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Actual (US$M)                0.1     8.6    19.4    26.2    27.7    28.9    29.4
Actual as % of appraisal     4.0    115.0   129.0   109.0   92.0    96.0    98.0
Date of final disbursement: December 9, 1996
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
Identification                              n.a.                May/June 1989
Preparation                                 n.a.                Sep. 4-9, 1989
Initial executive project summary           n.a.                 October 1989
Pre-appraisal                               n.a.               Nov. 6-22, 1990
Appraisal                                   n.a.             Feb. 23-Mar. 13, 1990
Negotiations                           June 18-20, 1990        June 18-20, 1990
Board presentation                                            September 4, 1990
Signing                                                        October 12, 1990
Effectiveness                                                  February 7, 1991
Project completion                   September 30, 1994       September 30, 1996
Loan closing                         September 30, 1995       September 30, 1996



Annex A                                      32
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned                            Actual
Weeks             US$             Weeks             US$
Through appraisal             70               n.a.             41.6             88.2
Appraisal-Board               30               n.a.             18.7             45.0
Board-effectiveness            3               n.a.             8.1              19.2
Supervision                   52               n.a.             58.2             137.2
ICR                           35               n.a.             27.0              5.0
Total                         190              n.a.            129.3             294.6
Missiion Data
Stage of project    Date   No. of Staff days Specializations                       Types of
cycle     (monthlyear) persons  infield   representeda    Performance Rating   problems
Implement. Development
status    objectives
Through
appraisal
Identification                3        5         A,E,A          n.a.      n.a.        n.a.
Preparation
mission            9/89       3        5         A,E,LA         -          -          -
Pre-appraisal      11/89      4        16      A,LA,V,FA
Appraisal          2/90       3        18         A,E,L          1          1
Pre-negotiation
missiorn           12/90      2         1         A,V
Supervisions
I                 6/91        2       10          A,V
II                12/91       4       12      A,FA,LA,V         1          1
III               9/92        3        9        A,V,LA          1          1
IV                8/93        4       16       A,V,LA,E         1          1
V                 2/94        5       16    A,V,NRE,LA,E        1          1
VI (ICR)           9/94       4       35      A,E,LA,V,SE      -          -          -
VII                1/95       5        2     SE,E,LA,FA,C      HS         HS          -
VIII              12/95       6        2     SE, E, LA, FA,    HS         HS          -
C,V
IX (ICR)          10/96       5        2      SE,E,C,V,LA      HS         HS          -
a. A = Snr Agriculturist; C = Civil Engineer; SE = Snr Economist; E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; L =
Lawyer; LA = Land Administration and Registration Specialist; NRE = Natural Resources Economist; V =
Valuation Specialist.



33                               Annex A
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                Loan no.     Amount           Board date
(US$ million)
Third Land Titling Project                3797          118.1        09/22/1994






35                                            Annex B
Land Reform Areas Project: Supplemlentary Tables
Table 1. Expected vs. Actual Growth of 'Yields
Kgs/Rai              Cassava              Riee                Maize                Mungbean
Expected                       _
Base year            2,000                250)                225                  100
Year 10              2,600                320                 270                  120
Change               30%                  28%'o               20%                  20%
Actual
1982                 2,603                30:5                295                  138
1992-94*             1,775                26.3                321                  102
Change               -32%                _14%                 9%                   -26%
All crops grown under rainfed conditions. "Expected" data are taken from the SAR, Annex 2, Table T5. "Actual" data
are the mean for LRAs, averaging data for Central, North and North-East Regions.
*Mean for three years.
Table 2. Yield Trends: LRAs compared with mean for Region in which they are located.
1981/82                      1992/93    -             % change, 1981-92
LRAs          Region         LRAs           Region         LRAs           Region
Center
Rice           248           344            237            432            -4%            26%
Maize          256           386            313            500            22%            30%
Sugar          8147          7806           6290           6554           -23%          -16%
North          _
Rice           399           416            277            379            -31%           -9%
Maize          320            357           395            477            23%            34%
North-East
Cassava        2043           2120          1414           2204           -31%           4%
Source: ALRO, NESDB
Table 3. Trends in Net Farm  Income, LRAs ('000 baht, 1990)
1984                1987                1990                 Change. 1984-90
Center
Lop Buri              113,062              73,867              87,741              -25,321
Sara Buri             NA                  NA                   352,886             NA
North                                        _                                     _
Phetchabun            NA                  67,797               92,690              24,893
Chiang Rai*           42,841              42,310               57,536               14,695
Uthai Thani           NA                  NA                   66,210              NA
Nakhon Sawan          28,297               48,321              51,453               23,156
North-East                     _
Nakhon Ratchasima    45,605                61,561              37,222               -8,383
Si SaKet            1 331,001              173,504             229,815             -101,186
* Includes Wiang Chai and Doi Pui
Source: ALRO



Annex B                                             36
Table 4. Economic Benefits and Costs  PCR vs. Audit Estimate
Net Farm      Net Farm       Passenger                   Net Benefits   Net Benefits
Income (1):   Income (2):    Vehicle Cost                (1):           (2):
Year          PCR           Audit          Savings       Costs          PCR           Audit
=a            =b            =c             =d            =a+c-d         =b+c-d
1983                                                     2,570          (2,570)       (2,570)
1984         --             --             --            25,230        (25,230)       (25,230)
1985          11,600        5,015          356           56,751        (44,795)       (51,380)
1986          19,000        8,030          3,135         55,424         (33,289)      (44,259)
1987          29,900         11,045        6,023         82,667         (46,744)      (65,599)
1988          34,600        14,060         10,641        84,593         (39,352)      (59,892)
1989      _  44,100          17,075        11,173        68,825         (13,552)      (40,577)
1990          52,500        20,090         11,732        79,685         (15,453)      (47,863)
1991          60,500        23,105         12,318        16,511         56,307        18,912
1992          68,900        26,120         12,934        16,708        65,126         22,346
1993          77,100        29,135         13,580        26,180        64,500         16,535
1994          85,300        32,150         14,260        42,460         57,100        3,950
1995          94,600        35,165         14,992        59,406         50,186        (9,249)
1996          98,500        38,180         15,721        9,900          108,321       44,001
1997          98,500        38,180         16,507        9,900          109,107       44,787
1998          98,500        38,180         17,333        9,900          105,933       45,613
1999          98,500        38,180         18,200        9,900          106,800       46,480
2000          98,500        38,180         19,109        59,406         58,203        -2,117
2001          98,500         38,180        20,065        9,900          108,665       48,345
2002          98,500         38,180        21,068        9,900          109,668       49,348
2003          98,500         38,180        22,122        9,900          110,722       50,402
2004          98,500         38,180        23,227        9,900          111,827       51,507
2005      _  98,500          38,180        24,388        59,406         63,482        3,162
Economic Rtate of Return  = 17% (PCR)
= 2% (Audit estimate)
Finding. Observed farm benefits are not as large as the PCR claims and therefore the audit ERR is substantially lower.
Methodology
1. Net Jrm benefits. PCR estimate refers to cotton ,cassava, rice and mungbean. Audit estimate is based on these, plus
maize and sugarcane, using adjusted border prices for tradable commodities. The audit data were derived from ALRO
farm surveys for each of the LRAs, conducted in 1984, 1987 and 1990. The audit estimate is based on the observed rate
of growth between these years, and projecting growth at the same annual rate up to 1996 (full development). Observed
incremental benefit was adjusted downward by 10 percent which is the amount by which it is assumed that benefits
would have increased without the project.
2. Passenger vehicle cost savings. It was assumed at appraisal that, in addition to the positive impact of roads on the farm
gate price received by farmers, there would be additional benefits in the form of lower costs for passenger traffic. This
assumption was retained in the PCR estimate and the audit estimate. Here some double counting is likely because on
village roads passengers and produce often travel together and the cost of depreciation is probably factored into the price
that farmers receive for their produce; also on these small roads the amount of passenger traffic is likely to be small and,
anyway, difficult to calculate. This is not a trivial point because the PCR assumes that passenger vehicle cost savings will
grow by 5 percent per year over the usable life of the investment, so that 23 years after project start-up they account for
38 percent of net benefits.
3. Costs. In addition to the project investment costs, costs include road maintenance at B20,000/km (US$800/km) annually
and road rehabilitation at B100,000/km (US$4,000/km) every five years. These are the assumptions made in the PCR
and they were retained in the audit estimate because the data on road maintenance were very patchy. It is assumed that if
these expenditures were lower in practice there would be a corresponding reduction in benefits from passenger vehicle
cost savings: the net effect would be zero.



37                                      Annex C
Second Land Titling Projelct: Economic Analysis'
1.      The Second Land Titling Project (LTP2)-in common with the First and Third
projects-did not estimate the rate of return to titling. This annex reviews the available evidence
on the economic benefits provided by thle land titling activities and estimates a rate of return.
Only the rural land titling activities are covered in this analysis; neither the much smaller urban
land titling activities nor the valuation activities of LTP2 are included.
Costs of Titling
2.      Table IA shows the costs incurred by the project in its land titling activities. Taken alone,
these amount to US$32 per title, or US$34 per hectare, as shown in Table lB.2 To these costs, it
would be reasonable to add at least a portion of the other project costs, such as institution
building, technical assistance, and training. Without these overhead expenditures, it is likely that
the project would have been less effective. Conversely, it would be inappropriate to charge the
entirety of these costs to the current land titling activities, since they are also intended to benefit
future titling activities (including the Third Land Titling Project, currently underway).3 Adding
half the overhead costs results in a cost per title of US$36, and a cost per hectare of US$39.
Table 1
Table 1A: Costs of Titling                      Table 1B: Cost per Title and per Hectare
(B million)                              % of Overhead Cost Included
Base Cadastral Mapping             552                                       0       50         100
Ground Survey (inc NS3K conv)     1,027           Total cost (B million)    1,636  1,859       2,081
Depreciation of Equipment           57
Total Titling Cost                1,636            Cost per title
B/title        801       910       1,019
Land Administration                209                      US$/title       32        36         40
Institution Building                96            Cost per hectare
TA and Training                    140                      B/ha           860       977       1,094
Total Overhead                     445                      US$/ha         34.0     38.6        43.2
1. The author of this section is Stefano Pagiola, Environment Department.
2. The exchange rate at the time of the projecf s completion, B25.3 = US$ 1, is used throughout this report. All prices
are in constant 1995 values unless otherwise indicated.
3. The overhead expenses include US$5.4 million for training and technical assistance. Although this amount was
financed by a grant from the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), it is included in the
costs for two reasons: First, it is unlikely that this grant had no opportunity cost; if the funding had not been used for
the titling program, it might have been available for other purposes. Second, including the costs of technical assistance
provides a better estimate of the returns to titling tlhat might be obtained if the Government of Thailand were to
continue the program with its own resources or if another country in the region were to undertake a similar program.



Annex C                                       38
3.     At a 10% discount rate, these costs are equivalent to an annuity of US$3.6 per title or
US$3.9 per hectare. In other words, as a first approximation, an increase in annual net benefits
per hectare of about US$3.9 per hectare is required for titling to break even. This provides an
order of magnitude for the benefits estimates, although the actual break-even point will be
slightly higher, since costs are borne early in the project and the benefits will be received in
future.
Probllems in Estimating Benefits of Titling
4.     Surveys of selected provinces where LTP2 worked were undertaken before and after the
project. However, these surveys have not yet been analyzed. Until the data from these surveys
become available, the only way to examine the effects of land titling during the 1990s is to use
available secondary data. Unfortunately, such data is only available at relatively aggregated
levels, typically at the provincial level. This makes it extremely difficult to identify the effects of
land titling. Provinces typically have substantial internal diversity; if data were available for
smaller land units, it would be easier to control for differences in agroecologic and
socioeconomic conditions. Titling is only one of the factors that affected each province.
Moreover, the extent of titling activities varied substantially within provinces. In some provinces,
a large proportion of total area was titled. For example, in Lampang province almost 70% of total
area was titled under LTP2. In other provinces, such as nearby Phrae, only 5% of total area was
titled under the project. Moreover, no data are available on either the initial or the final
percentage of area or parcels titled in each province. Where a substantial proportion of a province
already had titles prior to the project, one expects a lower impact from titling; likewise, one
expects a lower impact where a substantial proportion of a province remains untitled after
completion of project activities. Finally, with titling becoming almost universal throughout the
North, Northeast, and Central regions, it has become increasingly difficult to carry out paired
comparisons of titled and untitled areas. Remaining untitled areas tend to be scattered and often
have particular constraints, such as location in areas where forest boundaries are uncertain or the
existence of disputes over inheritance, which may make them unrepresentative.
Impact of Titling on Access to Credit
5.     Data on household credit use in the 1991/92 and 1995/96 crop years obtained from
household surveys carried out by the Office of Agricultural Economics of the Ministry of
Agriculture were used to examine whether land titling still had a positive impact on credit, as was
found in the earlier studies, during the period of LTP2.4 The results show that:
(a) In every region, total credit use per household increased faster between 1991/92 and
1995/96, on average, in provinces where LTP2 worked than in the region as a whole. In
provinces where LTPI had worked, credit use increased faster still. Overall, the
average increase in credit use in non-LTP provinces was 22%. In LTP2 provinces,
average credit use increased by 31 %; in LTP 1 provinces, it increased by 95% (the
4. For the purposes of this analysis, the provinces considered as LTP2 provinces were: Chachoengsao, Chai Nat,
Chanthaburi, Chon Buri, Nakhon Sawan, Prachin Buri, Rayong, and Trat in Central Region; Chiang Rai, Larnpang,
Nan, Phrae, and Uthai Thani in Northern Region; and Kalasin, Maha Sarakham, Mukdahan, Roi Et, Ubon
Rathchathani, and Yasothon in Northeastern Region. The LTPI provinces were Chiang Mai, Lamphun(*), Mae Hong
Son(*), and Phayao(*) in Northern Region and Buri Ram, Nakhon Ratchasima, Si Sa Ket(*), and Surin(*) in
Northeastern Region; titling in provinces marked (*) was begun under LTPI and completed during the first year of
LTP2.



39                                 Annex C
average increase for all provinices was 27%). These results, however, mask very
considerable disparities within each group.
(b) On average, the use of formal credit increased in both absolute and relative terms. In
absolute terms, use of formal credit increased faster in provinces where titling was
undertaken, once again with the increase being greatest in LTP 1 provinces. The
average increase in formal credit use was 37% in non-LTP provinces, 50% in LTP2
provinces, and 111% in LTP1 provinces. The results in terms of changes in the relative
share of formal credit are very mixed, however, because of different initial conditions
(in some cases the share of formal credit was already so high that it could not increase
much; in LTP2 provinces in the North and Northeast, for example, formal credit
already accounted for over 90% of total credit in 1991/92). Again, there are substantial
disparities within each group.
(c) Use of informal credit dropped in relative terms, though not always is absolute terms.
Overall, the share of informal credit in total credit dropped fastest in LTP?1 provinces.
(d) Provinces where LTP?1 worked had substantially lower than average levels of credit at
the beginning of the study period. This is as expected, since an important criterion in
selection of provinces for LTT' 1 was their relative level of poverty. By 1995/96, the
difference was still present bult smaller.
(e) The increase in credit use, both overall and in LTP2 provinces, was lowest in Central
region provinces. These provinces are among the richest farming regions in the
country, and have a much longer history of credit use. Already in 1991/92, they had the
highest average credit use (almost twice the national average). These provinces also
had the highest share of informal credit use (24% in 1991/92, dropping to 14% in
1995/96). This is consistent with the results in Federet a?s study, in which credit use
increased least as a result of til;ling in the Central region study site of Lop Buri, which
had high levels of commercialization and a thriving informal credit market to support it.
These results show that the broadly positive impact of titling on credit use found in the earlier
studies continued to hold during the period in which LTP2 operated. They also suggest that there
is a lag before the full effects of land titling on credit use are felt. Because of the limitations noted
previously, however, the available data do not allow a precise estimate of the extent of the impact
on credit use.



Table 2: Rate of Return Calculations for Thailand: Second Land Titling Project
Total
Area     NS3K    % of         Tota!    % of                                           Year From Proiect Stail
Region     Year  (ha M)    Conv   Titles        Titles    Total     u      l      L     J      4      5  -                Z      9     U )    I I -l        Ii T1   14    
I otal Benetis (tS million)
North      1991      70      13,018   0.02       198,486   037       0     7    14    22    29    36    43    50    57    65    72   718
1992      61    102,165   0.19       173,418   0.32             0      6    12    17    23    29    35    40    46    52    58   575
1993      38     50,472   0.09       107,752   0.20                    0     4      8     11    15    19    23    26    30    34    38   376
1994      21     17,653   0.03        60,218   0.11                          0      2      4      7      9     11    13    15    17    20    22   217
Total    191    183,308   0.34        539,874   1.00      0     7    20    37    56    75    93   112   131   150   169   827   632   398   217
Northeast  1991     314    205,337   0.21        339,815   0.34      0     15    31    46    62    77    93   108   124   139   155  1,547
1992     256          0   0.00       277,537   0.28             0    14    28    42    56    70    85    99    113   127   141  1,410
1993     203    115,063   0.12       220,095   0.22                    0    20    40    59    79    99   119   139   159   178   198  1,982
1994     142     74,169   0.07       154,215   0.16                           0    14    28    43    57    71    85    99    114   128   142  1,419
Total    916    394,569   0.40        991,662   1.84      0    15    45    94   158   222   285   349   412   476   539  1,980  1,735  2,124  1,419
Central    1991       0          0   0.00             0   0.00       0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
1992     232     62,442   0.12       148,686   0.29             0    22    44    66    88   110   132   154   176   197   219  2,194
1993     208      3,065   0.01       133,363   0.26                    0    21    42    63    84   104   125   146   167   188   209  2,090
1994     356     87,962   0.17       228,812   0.45                           0    33    66    99   131   164   197   230   263   296   329  3,286
Total    796    153,469   0.30        510,861   0.95      0      0    22    65   140   216   292   368   443   519   595   670  2,699  2,418  3,286
Total              1,902    731,346            2,042,397             0    23    87   196   354   512   670   829   987  1,145  1,303  3,477  5,066  4,940  4,922
Discounted Total Benefits (B million)                                                                          
North                  0      7    17    28    38    46    53    58    61    64    65   290   201    115    57
Northeast              0    14    37    71   108   138   161   179   192   202   208   694   553   615   374
Central                0      0     18    49    96    134   165   189   207   220   229   235   860   700   865
Total                  0    21    72   147   242   318   378   425   460   486   502  1,219  1,614  1,431  1,296
Project Costs (B million)
Current Value          7   570   725   456   101
Discounted             7   518   599   343    69
Net Benefits (B million)
Current Value         -7  -548  -638  -260   253   512   670   829   987  1,145  1,303  3,477  5,066  4,940  4,922
Discounted            -7  -498  -527  -196   173   318   378   425   460   486   502  1,219  1,614  1,431  1,296
NPV                7,076
Net Benefits (US$ million)
Current Value          0    -22   -25    -10    10    20    26    33    39    45    51   137   200   195   195
Discounted             0    -20   -21    -8       7    13    15    17    18    19    20    48    64    57    51
NPV                  280
ERR (%)               34
Notes     vaiues snown in  utn year since tining are present value or all uture Denetit tlows.
10% discount rate used; Exchange rate 25.3 B/US$



41                                Annex C
Other Benefits from Titling
6.     Efforts were made to use data on input use and crop yields to examine the effects of
titling on production, but the results were mostly inconclusive. The yield changes experienced in
each province, for example, were very sensitive to the definition of initial and final years, even
when moving averages were used. Because of this, efforts to correlate titling with yield increases
were extremely sensitive to model specification. In some cases, the expected positive correlation
was observed; in others there was little, or even a negative, correlation. With more disaggregated
and more detailed data, it might have been possible to better control for the impact of the
multitude of factors other than titling which affected yields. It should also be borne in mind that
impact on yields is only one aspect of the possible benefits of titling. Titling might also
encourage or allow diversification into other crops or into non-agricultural activities. There is
anecdotal evidence, for example, of land titles being used as collateral to finance education,
migration, or non-agricultural investments in commerce and transport activities.
7.     No data were available on the impact of titling on land values. Anecdotal information
from farmers interviewed at random in the Northern and Northeastern regions suggests that land
with titles sells for more. Farmers also expressed, and in practice have demonstrated, a
willingness to pay fees to obtain titles to their land; since fees for titling are set at a nominal level
(currently B 110; at the time of LTP2 the fee was B90 or US$3.6), however, they only provide a
lower-bound estimate for the perceived benefits of titling. Farmers interviewed at random
generally expressed a willingness to pay higher fees. More concretely, farmers unwilling to wait
for the systematic adjudication process to reach their area have been willing to pay higher fees for
sporadic adjudication of their land; during the years of the LTP2 project, about 34,000 titles were
issued under this process. Although this represents only about 2% of the total titles issued during
that period, it demonstrates that some farnners were not only willing to pay for their titles, but
were willing to pay a premium to obtain the title a few years sooner than they would otherwise
have done.
8.    Although the analysis based on available secondary data provided only limited results, it
and the more qualitative analysis based on interviews with knowledgeable observers carried out
during the audit mission suggest that the results of the earlier studies of the benefits of titling are
still broadly applicable in Thailand.
Returns to Titling
9.     Table 2 shows the rate of return calculations for LTP2. The estimate of returns is based
on the following assumptions:



Annex C                                      42
(a) Benefits are calculated separately for each region, since the results of the analyses of
titling show that regional variations are important. The estimated increases in
productivity and input use in each region are based on the results of the studies by
Feder and others and by Onchan and Aungsumalin. They are then applied to region-
specific production budgets for the major rice crop, which is the main agricultural
product in all the regions (paddy accounted for 44% of farm land in Central region,
52% in Northern region, and 65% in Northeastern region).5 The costs and yields of
several years have been averaged to avoid year-specific variations.
(b) The estimated benefits are assumed to take 10 years to be fully realized, and to
increase linearly beginning with the year in which each plot is titled.
(c) In some cases, titling may not have any effect on production. For example, in areas
where water availability is a limiting constraint, increased access to credit may not
increase investment since few investments are likely to be profitable. To allow for this,
it is assumed that there will be no benefits on 25% of titled plots. In addition, it is
assumed that the benefits of NS3K conversion are smaller than the benefits of
replacing lesser documents. The case studies document that NS3Ks already provide
substantial benefits (in particular, the study by Feder and others includes NS3K
holders in its definition of titled farmers) although the results of the Onchan and
Aungsumalin study suggest that the benefits of NS4s are greater. To allow for this, the
benefits of NS3K conversion are assumed to be only half as great as the benefits of
conversion from lesser titles.6 The magnitude of both these adjustments is admittedly
arbitrary.
(d) For each region, the flow of benefits is then projected, based on the actual area titled in
each region in each year of the project (and adjusting for the proportion which
represents NS3K conversions, as discussed above). The resulting benefit flows are
then discounted at 10%.
(e) The discounted costs of project implementation are then subtracted. The amount and
scheduling of expenditures is extracted from the LTP2's Implementation Completion
Report. As mentioned earlier, the cost estimates include all of the titling costs (except
for urban titling) and 50% of the overhead costs. Neither the titling fee paid by farmers
nor the subsequent taxes they pay on any land transactions are included, since these
are transfers.
10.    Under these assumptions, the Net Present Value of the net benefits of the project is
estimated to be about US$280 million, with an Economic Rate of Return of about 34%.7 Even
assuming that titling has low or no benefits in some areas, the benefits of titling are sufficiently
large in some areas, relative to the costs of titling, to make the overall project be quite beneficial.
5. The estimates of increased productivity are given as increments to the yield changes that would otherwise have
happened; no separate adjustment for the without-project case is necessary, therefore.
6. NS3K] conversions represented about 30-40% of total titles issued under LTP2, depending on the region.
7. Omilting the costs financed by grants increases the NPV to US$282 million and the ERR to 35%.



43                               Annex C
11.   Given the number of assumptions and ad hoc adjustments that had to be made, sensitivity
analysis is very important.
(a) Reducing the assumed increases in input use and yields by as much as 50% reduces the
NPV to $109 million and the ERR to 21%. A reduction in the assumed increases in
input use and productivity of more than 80% is needed before the project becomes
unprofitable.
(b) The assumption that the full benefits of titling would only be experienced after 10 years
on any given plot is already quite conservative. For each additional year that full
benefits are delayed, the NPV drops by about $15 million.
(c) Doubling the proportion of titled area on which it is assumed that no benefits are
experienced (to 50% of the area titled) reduces the NPV to $166 million and the ERR to
26%. The project is estimated as breaking even if as little as 15% of the area titled
receives the assumed benefils. Assuming that there isno benefit to NS3K conversion
reduces the NPV to $260 million and the ERR to 32%.
(d) If the entire overhead costs are charged to the titling activities, the NPV falls to $272
million and the ERR to 31%.
These results show that the conclusion that the LTP2 project was profitable is quite robust to
even dramatic changes in the assumptions.






45                        Annex D
Land Titling Project Office
Department of Lands
2 prapipit Road
Bangkok, Thailand
Tel. 662-2220799
Fat- 662-2259872
3 June 1998
Dear Sir,
Re: Thailand - Performance Audit Report
Second Land Titling Proiect ( Loan 3254 -TH)
T'he Operations Evaluaeion Department has sent the draft
Performance Report of the Second Land Titling Project (Loan 3254 -TH)
for comments, The following am some comments that I would lkke, to
make:
1. There is often little difference between the forest reserve ant: the
area outside. (page 10, para. 1.5) The word "often" should be chariged
into "sometimes"
2. Government was concerned that the existing approach to Land
Titling - waiting for Land holders to apply for a deed (sporadic
adjudication) was taking too long. (page 25, para. 3.1) The exmting
approach before the Land Titling Project was that the Department of
Lands sent a small number of mobile teams to do systematic adjudication
in the field and with that approach it would have taken the Departm-t of
Lands 200 years to finish the target of the whole country
3. Fees applied to land transactions amount to roughly 10 perc_iit of
the sale price, compared to 2 percent in Australia. (page 30, para. 3.13)
The fact is that the fees consist of 4 things; firstly a transaction fee which
is 2 percent of the official valuatiou, seconcily, stamp duty which is derived
from 0.5 of official valuation, thirdly personal income tax. (income derived
from selling property) which has a progressive rate starting from 5 pe!=ent
and the last one is the business tax which is 3.3 percent of the sale price.
4. NS4 involves ground sulveying (page 31, footnote 16) The fazt is
that NS4 involves 3 methods such as ground survey, photo map sAxurvvy
and photo map conversion.



Annex D                         46
5. The government will secure the subsidy in the long term because
'titling tends to increase the number of land transactions, increasing the
revenue derived from stamp duties. (page 32, para. 3.18) The revenue
derived from stamp duties, fees, and taxes as described in para. 3.13
6. The mandate of DOL (page 34, para 3.23) it should also include
registration
Yours Sincerely,
(Miss. Wanna Rakyao)
Land Titling Project Manager
Deparnent of Lands
Mr. Roger Slade
Manager,Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department
T he World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.



MAP SECTION



11)20         1040
-200                                                    200-
THA LAl N 0
LAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP   I '-   VI,'J   AM
TD  ,l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
A   "    0           +   IAMOI
PNDONESIA  -'IGO
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
14-
12-~~~~~~#,f                                                        12R
PROJECT ARtEAS
0 PEEc4RPA
13 NAINSA
1.0  S. INAKHiON RMCILASLIA
9 NAK14I RAIC4ASAYA B
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 C MA
THAILAND
LAND REFORM AREAS PROJECT -
LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
-. 5 e i _ PROFtECT AREAS
'II0^, RESERVED FOREST LAND
.-b  '   A0* 0 60%   RESERVED FORFEST LAND SUITABLE FOR AGRICULTURE
OTHER LAND SUITABLE FOR AGRICULTURE
__ ',,____  ROADS
RAMIWAYS
0  S    100 MILES
RRGRJN WOUNSES
-.   =  '   INTERNATIONAL BOUDARIES
BB            1980   I c 0                  ! * A Y  S   '   \ \ ,  8e* wP



i~~~~~~~~~
|                               THAILAND
SECOND LAND TITLING PROJECT
MYANMAR           ~     ---
20.  M     N A   Cadost-ol Coveroge Pior to Lond Tiing Protect
3    f  urr ij. -at                               Prov--ces Under Second Lnd TA-itcr,
g*-,     N     5 , F 1_t {                                    Provinces Under Lad Tiling Poject
_H{_ S-     t |      1    3    L                    ___  Province Boundoris
o,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Region lBondories
Interntion-t Boundarie-
LAO~~~~~~~~~
tt  j,)  : i0                  ~~~~~~~DEM  REP      e- -
A              m                                D E~~~~~~~~~K   M PU OHA  E A
S(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0- - Tii                               11, lC      /   '\ 
16f-
::   \ .XC <        ~~~~Gulf  of  7'hAo//and                                 / VIET  NAM
9J;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a -                     /
p5-s                                                             E M      R     I C _
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YNA 8                                       \       <) 5- S
8_____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   PUCH                                               E A20'X:
nf2 l -----
V__      VIET N - . VI NAM
I 9        ,                                 st2 -U          t: -,  .'.vurct
ha ~ ~ ~ ~~ 1 O,/V, Son                                     v  Le     -, <' Ch/n   
aes..                                -                                  -~~~~~S., h
0         100      200        300            *,. pt(Araia<<
KisI.a4e                                                                   K  (    E   x1<    MALAYSIAC-
07t            100is             200             rA                                              I N 
_                  M,I.A                                                              o             MP
too  MALAYSIA~~~~~~Se
_________________________________________________________________IND       Southt



