Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14506
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2735-TUN)
aPRIL 28, 1995
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
CY 1985     March 1986  November 1994
US$1  ,     TD 0.757    TD 0.740    TD 0.984
TD1   =     US$1.321    US$1.351    US$1.016
The rate used in the President's report was: US$1 = TD 0.73
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Fiscal year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME - Agence de Maitrise de 1'Energie (Agency for Energy Conservation)
MEM - Ministere de 1'Energie et des Mines (Ministry of Energy and Mining)
SME - Soci6te de Maitrise de 1'Energie (Center for Energy Conservation)
SNT - Societe Nationale de Transport (National Transport Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary                                                             ii
Part I      Project implementation assessment
A.   Project Objectives                                                       1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                                         1
C.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project            2
D.   Project Sustainability                                                   3
E.   Bank Performance                                                         3
F.  Borrower Performance                                                      5
G.  Assessment of Outcome                                                     5
H.   Future Operation                                                         5
I.  Key Lessons Learned                                                       6
Part II     Statistical annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Table 6A: Project Costs
Table 6B: Project Financing
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix: Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT (LN 2735-TUN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy
Conservation Demonstration Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2735-TUN in the
amolnt of US$ 4 million equivalent was approved on July 3, 1986 and made
effective on March 17, 1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, compared with the original closing
date of June 30, 1990. It was almost fully disbursed (99.34%, with US$
26,322.32 remaining), and the last disbursement took place on November 7,
1994. There was no cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by Nichola Dyer Ciss6 of the Private Sector
Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division of the Maghreb and Iran
Department, Middle East and North Africa Region and reviewed by Amir Al-
Khafaji, Division Chief, and Francois Amlot, Acting Project Adviser. The
borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was based on material in the project file. It
was agreed with the Department that no completion mission would take place on
the grounds of: (i) the small loan amount; (ii) poor project execution; and
(iii) current budgetary constraints. The borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by providing requested data, preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.






- ii -
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION
Loan 2735-TUN
TUNISIA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction Within the ten years prior to this loan, the Bank supported five
energy sector projects in Tunisia (Table 2). Three power loans helped to
expand the subsector: (i) the Second Power project in 1977 for US$ 14.5
million (loan 1355-TUN); (ii) the Third Power project in 1981 for US$ 41.5
million, of which US$ 5.4 million were cancelled (loan 2003-TUN); and (iii)
the Fourth Power project in 1984 for US$ 38.7 million, of which US$ 17.2
million were cancelled (loan 2455-TUN). The Second Natural Gas Pipeline
project in 1980, originally for US$ 37 million and reduced to US$ 27 million
(loan 1864-TUN), financed pipeline construction. The 1982 US$ 5 million
Technical Assistance loan (loan 2197-TUN) contained a US$ 700,000 energy
component that financed energy audits and efficiency studies.
Prolect Objectives The objectives of this project were to: (i) help the
Agence de Maitrise de l'Energie (AME) develop an effective institutional and
policy framework for a national energy conservation program; (ii) strengthen
local capabilities for monitoring the program and implementing energy
efficiency audits and actions; and (iii) finance short-term actions to
demonstrate energy conservation. [Para. 1]. Energy conservation was important,
realistic, and necessary, in view of Tunisia's expected dependence on energy
imports. A stronger institutional and policy framework was essential for
sustainability. However, the financing objective was unrealistic because of
its complexity for AME. [Para. 2]. Moreover, project design was flawed: (a) a
Bank loan was not an appropriate instrument since the project was non-
commercial (in fact, no rate of return was calculated); (b) the loan amount
was too small to achieve all of the project's objectives; and (c) technical
assistance should have been provided throughout the project to AME. [Para. 4].
The project had four components. An institutional component provided
technical assistance to AME, training in basic energy auditing and
conservation techniques, and equipment for training and demonstration.
Demonstration components in three sectors (industrial, transportation and
hotel/buildings) included energy audits, feasibility studies, implementation
of the recommended energy-saving actions, on-the-job training in energy
conservation, and tools, equipment and/or instrumentation. [Para. 3].
Implementation Experience and Results The energy conservation objectives were
only partially achieved. The number of energy audits conducted under the
project was (i) fewer than planned and (ii) far less than the number
undertaken overall (they are required by law)- Furthermore, the audited firms
did not implement the recommendations, mainly because of AME's cumbersome
approval procedures and the availability of cheaper government-subsidized
credit. Consequently, the scheme was revised to finance other demonstration
actions, including installation of photovoltaic systems in rural areas. These
new actions are expected to have a substantial development impact. [Paras.
4,5]. The institutional objectives also were partially achieved. AME's
creation satisfied the Bank at appraisal, but its staff were weak in project
management, it was not always well-managed and it was not as independent from
the government as originally envisioned. Nevertheless, training in energy
auditing was carried out, and the auditing program increased conservation
awareness and helped to strengthen local energy auditing capacity. [Para. 6].
The initial program of training and energy audits was carried out with
some delays and fewer firms audited than planned. [Para. 9]. In May 1989 the
Project Agreement was amended, reducing the firms' cost share in the energy
audits, but the impact was negligible. In December 1989 the Bank agreed to
extend the loan's closing date based on a revised plan, which was implemented



- iii -
in 1993 and 1994. [Paras. 10,11]. Three more extensions were granted before
the loan closed on June 30, 1994, almost fully disbursed. Total project cost
was lower than expected (US$ 5.48 million instead of US$ 6.25 million) and the
distribution altered because of the revisions to the plan. (Para. 12].
The key factor that interfered with achievement of the project's major
objectives was poor performance of the government, the Bank, and the
implementing agency. (Paras. 14,15,16]. Government commitment and support for
the project were lacking; the borrower was not deeply involved in most aspects
of project preparation. [Para. 26]. The government's program of subsidized
credit discouraged the audited firms from using the Bank loan. (Para. 15]. AME
was not always well-managed, it was insufficiently staffed, its staff was
inadequately trained in project management, and its procurement processing was
too time-consuming. [Para. 16]. The borrower did not comply with key
covenants, particularly relating to the operation of AME. [Para. 28]. The
government had sufficient reservations about the implementation progress that
in 1992 the Minister of Planning requested its cancellation; instead, the
reprogramming of the loan was agreed as a satisfactory solution. [Para. 27].
The Bank had acknowledged but not resolved some important issues during
preparation, particularly the high potential for delays. [Para. 19). The
implementation plan was unrealistic because of Tunisia's lengthy disbursement
profile and AME's inexperience. [Para. 20). The Bank could have addressed some
of these problems by rigorously enforcing covenant compliance but did not.
[Para. 22]. Supervision was generally poor; a shift in task management
following the 1987 reorganization adversely affected continuity. The Bank
overstated the achievement of the objectives and the quality of AME's
management and rated the project's progress more highly than warranted; this
lack of a critical eye perpetuated the pattern of delays and extensions.
[Para. 21]. A changed approach to supervision at the end of the project
substantially contributed to the completion of the revised plan. [Para. 24].
The project will likely have a satisfactory outcome, but substantially
different from originally envisioned, and in spite of the four-year delay.
Energy audits were carried out, demonstration actions were undertaken, and
conservation awareness was heightened. However, the resources applied to the
end of the project were misallocated in that the problems they were solving
should have been addressed earlier. [Para. 29]. Institutional / management
weakness and lack of borrower commitment make the sustainability of the
project uncertain. Factors likely to promote its sustainability include
Tunisia's sound energy policies, the supportive legal framework, the positive
environmental, technical, social and economic aspects of the audits and
demonstration actions, and Tunisian ownership of the energy conservation
objective. [Para. 17].
Summary of Findings, Future ODeration and Key Lessons Learned Before it was
reprogrammed, this loan suffered from implementation problems that rendered
the operation counterproductive. The borrower's lack of ownership of the
project (but not the objective of energy conservation) is illustrated by the
government's sponsorship of interest rates that competed directly with the
project, and by the dismal participation of firms in activities financed by
the Bank loan. The energy audits were too costly even after the firms' cost
share was reduced, and firms avoided using AME and the Bank loan to finance
audits they were required to undertake by law. Despite high Bank involvement
in preparation and ample review, project implementation stalled after the
initial program because of design flaws, lack of borrower commitment, and the
failure of the Bank to take timely and effective measures to help deal with
problems that the Bank itself had identified. The reprogramming salvaged the
loan, so that the outcome was satisfactory despite the serious implementation
problems. [Paras. 32,33].



- iv -
Energy audits continue because they are required by law. The
photovoltaic systems are being installed and are expected to have a positive
impact. The action plan devised by AME for the future operation of the
photovoltaic systems provides adequate institutional, technical, and financial
arrangements. [Para. 30]. In its next mission, the Bank should focus on
whether the program is broadly on track, and verify that the operation is not
being adversely affected by the issues that hindered earlier aspects of this
project (lengthy procedures, implementation delays). It is not recommended
that the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) conduct a future impact
evaluation of this operation because it was small and not a pilot or
innovative operation, and because of the Bank's marginal involvement. [Para.
31].
The key lessons to be drawn from the problems of this project relate
both to design and to implementation. The lessons from the design flaws are:
(i) the appropriate instrument for non-commercial projects such as this would
have been a grant, not a Bank loan; (ii) the Bank should ensure in making
small loans that the amount is realistic to achieve the stated objectives;
(iii) the Bank should ensure the institutional framework remains satisfactory
by monitoring the achievement of institutional objectives (this includes
establishing indicators), and should provide technical assistance throughout
the project to foster and maintain institutional capacity; and (iv) the Bank
should provide strong justification when the timetable at appraisal differs
significantly from the country's average disbursement profile. The main
lessons from the implementation problems are that (i) management should
enforce timely disclosure of problems and appropriate action to resolve
issues, and (ii) that the Bank must send a clear and consistent message to the
borrower by: (a) rigorously enforcing critical covenants; (b) making
discussions of new projects contingent on resolution of problems on ongoing
projects; and (c) granting multiple extensions only on the basis of concrete
agreements on specific actions and timetables. [Paras. 33,34].






Part I
Project Implementation Assessment






A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The project's objectives were to: (i) help AME to develop an effective
institutional and policy framework for a national energy conservation program;
(ii) strengthen local capabilities for monitoring the program and for
implementing energy efficiency audits and actions; and (iii) finance actions
for selected enterprises to demonstrate energy conservation.
2.    In view of Tunisia's expected dependence on energy imports, energy
conservation was an important, realistic, and necessary objective.
Strengthening the institutional and policy framework as part of the project
was essential for its sustainability. However, the financing objective was
unrealistic because it was too complex for AME, a newly-created institution;
numerous entities were involved in each demonstration project and AME needed
greater mastery of Bank and government procedures.
3.    To achieve the objectives, the project had four components, one for
institutional development and the remainder for demonstration of energy
conservation in three energy-intensive sectors (industry, transportation and
hotels/buildings). The institutional development component included initial
technical assistance to AME for the design and monitoring of an Energy
Conservation Program, training in basic energy auditing and conservation
techniques, and measurement and monitoring equipment for training users and
for demonstration. The demonstration components comprised energy audits,
feasibility studies, implementation of the recommended short-term energy-
saving actions, on-the-job training in energy conservation, and tools,
equipment and/or instruments.
4.    The project had serious design flaws. A Bank loan was not an appropriate
instrument to finance this non-commercial project, and indeed no rate of
return was calculated; a grant would have been a more effective instrument to
accomplish the demonstration objectives. The loan amount was too small to
achieve all of the project's objectives. Finally, technical assistance should
have been provided to AME throughout the project to sustain and improve the
agency's capacity, given its inexperience and the history of delays
experienced under the energy component of Loan 2197-TUN. However, the
objectives were sufficiently broad to permit reprogramming of a substantial
portion of the loan to finance other demonstration actions, including the
installation of photovoltaic systems in rural areas, when the energy-saving
actions were not implemented as planned (the audited enterprises did not use
the Bank loan to finance equipment purchases primarily because a government
program, "Credit Fournisseurs", provided financing through local banks at
lower rates than the interest plus cost for funds of the Bank loan).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The energy conservation objectives were only partially achieved. Energy
audits were conducted by local and foreign consultants, but only a few of the
audited firms undertook the recommended actions (Table 5). However, other
demonstration actions (some recommended by audits financed by loan 2197-TUN)
were implemented under this loan. The photovoltaic systems component became
the largest, and is expected to have a substantial development impact.
6.    The institutional development objectives also were partially achieved.
The Bank had strongly supported the creation of AME to help shift decision-
making away from the government, but the agency was inadequately staffed and
not always well-managed, and the government did not readily relinquish its
authority. Nevertheless, equipment financed by the loan helped to strengthen
AME's technical capacity. Also, the energy auditing program increased
conservation awareness among some of the more energy-intensive users and, by
involving local firms, helped to strengthen local energy auditing capacity.
7.    Indicators were not used consistently or well within the context of the
project. The President's Report cited a useful summary indicator for the



2
overall environmental impact of the project (expected energy savings per
year), but did not specify a methodology for computing it. In 1989 the Bank
reported a detailed assessment of the potential energy savings from the
project but since then has not followed up. No indicators for the
institutional objectives were identified, although it would have been
possible. For instance, changes in the use of expatriate firms could have been
used to track strengthening of local energy auditing and conservation
capacity, and the effectiveness of the demonstration components at increasing
conservation awareness could have been assessed by monitoring the number of
independently-undertaken energy efficiency-enhancing actions.
8.    The execution of this project does not reflect a cost-effective use of
Bank resources and indicates a lack of Bank commitment to supervision. A total
of 110 staff-weeks was allocated during the entire project cycle (Table 8) and
17 field missions were carried out (Table 9). Considerably more time was
devoted to the project before it became effective (about 54 staff-weeks over
less than 2 years) than to its supervision (about 48 staff-weeks over a period
of 8 years), reflecting the greater frequency of missions before effectiveness
(7 missions over a period of less than 2 years) than during supervision (10
missions over 8 years). In the final stages of the project a change in the
Bank's approach helped to achieve more rapid progress while minimizing
supervision. However, this still represents a misallocation of Bank resources
because they were tackling problems that should have been addressed earlier.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
9.    Effectiveness of the loan was delayed by over six months, until March
1987, to accommodate slow Tunisian legal procedures (Table 3). The initial
program of training and energy audits was then carried out, with some delays.
Training of 30 industrial and tertiary sector and 17 transport sector
participants was completed by November 1988. By December 1989, the Bank loan
had supported audits of only 4 firms in the industrial sector, 5 in transport,
and 6 in hotels/buildings, fewer than originally planned (12, 8, and 8,
respectively) and far less than the total number of firms participating in the
audit program because of the law (61, 17, and 80, respectively).
10.   Project implementation then stalled. The financing for the energy-saving
actions remained untouched because of: (i) cheaper government-subsidized
credit; (ii) AME's time-consuming procedures; (iii) a reduced incentive to
conserve energy because of declining oil prices; (iv) audits that recommended
changes of process; and (v) the small amounts available under the loan, that
were insufficient to finance the recommended actions. In May 1989 the Project
Agreement was amended, reducing the enterprises' cost share in the energy
audits from 35* to 25W, but the impact of this change was negligible. In
December 1989 the Bank approved a first extension of the loan's closing date
until June 30, 1991 in order for AME to implement the remainder of the
project. The following year only a small training program was conducted
(energy-saving driving techniques and maintenance, 49 participants). In May
1991 the Bank and the borrower agreed on a new set of energy efficiency
improvement projects to be financed under the loan (primarily those
recommended by the audits undertaken under loan 2197-TUN) and a plan to
finance the installation of photovoltaic systems in rural households. The Bank
granted two further extensions of the loan, in July 1991 and June 1992,
although significant progress had yet to be made.
11.   From 1993 to closing the project advanced rapidly. With procurement of
the photovoltaic systems underway, a fourth and final extension was approved.
The other actions undertaken in 1994 were: (i) acquisition and installation of
diagnostic equipment and instrumentation, including equipment to monitor
vehicle emissions and an energy bus to perform mobile energy diagnostics; (ii)
installation of solar water heating at Gafsa regional hospital; (iii) training



3
of 43 participants and pilot energy-saving actions at SNT; and (iv) conversion
of the Tunis airport terminal's heating to a more efficient steam system.
12.   The loan closed on June 30, 1994 almost fully disbursed (99.34%). The
balance of US$ 26,322.32 was cancelled effective November 7, 1994. Total
project cost was lower thail expected (US$ 5.48 million instead of US$ 6.25
million) and the distribution of costs and financing substantially altered
because of revisions to the plan (Tables 6A & 6B). The most important change
in the project's cost structure was the inclusion of photovoltaic systems in
the equipment furnished to AME, at a cost of US$ 2.72 million. In each of the
three sectors, the actual cost for equipment was lower than estimated because
of the firms' reluctance to undertake the recommended demonstration actions.
13.   Implementation delays were the major problem of the project. The four
extensions, the maximum possible under Bank procedures, doubled the project's
lifetime. By 1989 it had become clear that almost half of the project's
financing (US$ 1.82 million) would no longer be used for its original purpose
and another one quarter (US$ 1.08 million) was still not committed. Almost
two-thirds (64%) of disbursements occurred in the final year (Table 4).
14.   Factors beyond government control  The major factor beyond government
control was the Bank's poor supervision. The Bank did not appropriately
acknowledge and address implementation delays and in so doing, failed to
provide the leadership that would have helped the project to achieve its
objectives with fewer delays.
i5.   Factors within government control  The government-sponsored "Credit
Fournisseurs" program in effect competed with the Bank loan, with the result
that the audited enterprises did not use the Bank loan to finance the purchase
of energy-efficiency equipment. Also, the government's own cumbersome approval
and administrative procedures interfered with AME's fulfilling its mandate
under the project agreement. The lack of government commitment and support for
the project substantially affected timely achievement of its objectives.
16.   Factors subiect to AME control  AMIE's weak capacity also interfered with
the achievement of the project's objectives. The agency's staff was inadequate
and insufficiently trained, its procurement processing was cumbersome and
time-consuming, and it was not always well-managed. Further, in 1990 AME
pursued a dialogue with the Bank about a future energy conservation project
without taking concrete actions to resolve the delays on this project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The project's sustainability is uncertain because of institutional/
management weakness and lack of borrower commitment. Factors likely to promote
its sustainability, particularly within a framework of grants (GEF or other),
include: (i) Tunisia's basically sound energy policies; (ii) the law requiring
energy audits, which fosters incentives for enterprises to adopt energy-
conserving technology; (iii) the environmental benefits, technical feasibility
and economic viability of using photovoltaic cells in rural households; (iv)
the positive social impact and enhanced local participation of both the
renewable energy and the energy auditing components; and (v) the evidence of
Tunisian ownership of the energy conservation objective shown by the firms'
preference for the cheaper government-subsidized credit.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   Identification  The project was intended to demonstrate proven
technologies and encourage the adoption of energy-conserving technologies. It
was consistent with the government's development strategy and priorities as
well as with the Bank's strategy for the country. However, a grant would have



4
been a better instrument, and technical assistance for the newly-formed AME
should have been provided throughout the project.
19.   Preparation  The Bank was highly involved during preparation. The skill
mix of mission members was appropriate, including energy and conservation
specialists during various missions (Table 9). The number of preparation
missions (5) seems excessive for such a small project, but the missions
typically involved more than one project. Some important issues were
acknowledged but not resolved during this stage, including the best way to
retrofit hotels with solar water heaters and the high potential for delays.
20.   Appraisal  The Bank reviewed the project sufficiently. Implementation of
loan 2197-TUN had already shown the potential for substantial delays, and the
Bank expected the creation of AME to alleviate these problems by distancing
project implementation from ministerial control. However, given AME's
inexperience, Tunisia's disbursement profile (9 years at appraisal), and the
number of entities involved, the 4-year implementation plan was unrealistic.
21.   Supervision  The Bank's supervision performance was deficient throughout
much of the project. A significant factor was a lack of continuity in task
management following the 1987 reorganization, just after the loan became
effective. The Bank minimized the lack of progress on the institutional and
physical objectives and overstated the quality of AME's management; it
emphasized the satisfactory energy pricing policy and appropriate regulatory
framework, which although important were beyond the scope of the project (and
never contentious during the project). The project was highly rated until its
originally-scheduled closing date, although disbursements were less than one-
tenth of forecast and problems were clearly identified in supervision reports.
Only after the first extension of the closing date were the development
objectives and overall status ratings downgraded to 2 (Table 9). In 1991, the
project's overall status rating fell to 3, and from then until closing, the
project's ratings more accurately reflected its actual status.
22.   The Bank reported on covenant compliance in FY89 and FY91. The reports
were poorly prepared; they were incomplete and referred to nonexistent
covenants. Furthermore, compliance issues were not raised with the authorities
although AME did not fulfill its obligations under the project agreement
because of its own inadequacies as well as government actions and procedures.
23.   There were other reporting inadequacies that did not interfere with
project implementation but warrant attention as they concern the Bank's
institutional memory. Documents were misfiled (e.g. supervision report in the
wrong project file) or missing altogether (e.g. Bank's official approval of
closing date extensions), signalling a need for more streamlined filing
procedures and better control over the files. Since 1992, back-to-office and
supervision reports were not written, because the Bank was focusing resources
on resolving implementation issues.
24.    In 1993 and 1994, the Bank repeatedly informed AXE that unused funds
from the loan would be cancelled, and ensured the rapid progress on
disbursement through several brief targeted missions and appropriately cleared
procurement arrangements. This changed approach contributed substantially to
the successful implementation of the revised components.
25.   Deviation from Bank procedures  The initial procurement package issued
in 1992 by AME for the acquisition of photovoltaic systems was not fully in
line with Bank guidelines, but the Bank mistakenly endorsed it. Following a
complaint from a potential supplier, the Bank asked AME to cancel the original
bidding process and call for new bids. To allow AME to complete procurement of
this component, which was then properly undertaken, the Bank extended the
closing date of the loan the fourth and final time.



5
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Preparation  The borrower was not deeply involved in most aspects of
project preparation. However, the borrower addressed major institutional and
economic factors to the Bank's satisfaction; the government enacted energy
conservation legislation, maintained an acceptable energy pricing policy, and
addressed Bank concerns about implementation by creating AME and permanently
dismantling its predecessor, SME.
27.   Implementation  Although the borrower's energy pricing policy and
regulatory framework (including mandatory energy audits) remained
satisfactory, borrower performance otherwise during implementation was
deficient. The government competed directly with the project by offering
subsidized interest rates through its "Cr6dit Fournisseurs" program.
Procedural delays impeded progress and discouraged firms from participating in
the project. AME remained inadequately staffed and was not always effectively
managed. The agency inefficiently allocated resources to a related future
project before achieving substantial progress on this project. Reports were
often late or sent only after reminders from the Bank. This lack of borrower
commitment was a substantial impediment to the progress of the project. The
government had sufficient reservations about the implementation progress that
in 1992 the Minister of Planning requested its cancellation; instead, the
reprogramming of the loan was agreed as a satisfactory solution.
28.   Covenant compliance  The borrower did not comply fully with several
covenants, but the Bank did not raise the issues with the authorities (Table
7). Covenant 3.01 of the Loan Agreement required the borrower to ensure that
AME fulfill its obligations under the Project Agreement, but the government's
own program of subsidized interest rates interfered with the execution of the
demonstration actions and its approval procedures hampered AMJE's efficiency.
Under the Project Agreement, Covenants 2.05 (progress reports) and 4.01
(financial reporting) were not always respected in timely fashion and 3.01
(sound management of AME) received only partial compliance.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   The project will likely have a satisfactory outcome, because it has
partially achieved its major objectives and, despite the problems, is expected
to achieve satisfactory development results. Energy audits and demonstration
actions were undertaken, and conservation awareness has been heightened. The
largest component of the revised scheme, the photovoltaic systems in rural
areas, is expected to have a substantial positive development impact. However,
these results were substantially different than originally envisioned.
Furthermore, three-quarters of this small loan was disbursed within the final
quarter of the project, after significant delays. The time and resources
applied to the end of the project were in effect misallocated as they were
resolving issues that should have been addressed earlier.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
30.   The action plan devised by AME for the future operation of the
photovoltaic systems provides adequate institutional, technical, and financial
arrangements. The institutional framework is as follows: (i) the primary
objective of the plan is to increase Tunisians' awareness and acceptance of
photovoltaics; (ii) the plan is part of the National Rural Electrification
program, which has the endorsement of the Bank; and (iii) the operational
phase of the program is decentralized; with participating communities
establishing firms responsible for operating the systems. The technical
arrangements are satisfactory: (a) repair and maintenance provisions
(including an inventory of spare parts) and guarantees by the supplier are
adequate; and (b) the local firms are presently operating with the supplier
and their staff are receiving on-the-job training in operating, maintaining



6
and repairing the systems. The financial arrangements are acceptable: (1) the
beneficiary bears 10% of the cost of installation and the state 90% (currently
Tunisia 70k and the gouvernorat 20%); (2) participating municipalities receive
a tax exemption; and (3) beneficiaries bear the full operating cost.
31.   AME has established monitoring schemes for the photovoltaic systems, and
is tracking the number of systems installed and the number of breakdowns. All-
terrain vehicles were purchased to allow on-site inspections. It is
recommended that within one year the Bank send a mission (composed of an
energy specialist or power engineer, within the context of supervising the
existing portfolio) to monitor and evaluate the operation of the photovoltaic
systems. Since no completion mission was undertaken, the Bank should focus on
whether the program is broadly on track, and verify that the operation is not
being adversely affected by issues that hindered earlier aspects of this
project (lengthy procedures, implementation delays). It is not recommended
that OED conduct a future impact evaluation of this operation because it was
small and not a pilot or innovative operation, and because of the Bank's
marginal involvement.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   Before it was reprogrammed, this loan suffered from implementation
problems that rendered the operation counterproductive. The borrower's lack of
ownership of the project, although not the objective of energy conservation,
is illustrated by the government's sponsorship of interest rates that competed
directly with the project, and by the dismal participation of firms in
activities financed by the Bank loan. The energy audits were too costly even
after the firms' cost share was reduced, and firms avoided using AME and the
Bank loan to finance audits they were required to undertake by law. This
avoidance extended to the demonstration actions, few of which were ultimately
undertaken. The project was salvaged through a substantial reprogramming of
the loan, yielding a satisfactory outcome despite the serious problems.
33.   Despite high Bank involvement in preparation and ample review, flaws in
the project design led to problems. The lessons learned from these problems
are: (i) the appropriate instrument for non-commercial projects such as this
is a grant, not a Bank loan; (ii) the Bank should ensure in making small loans
that the amount is realistic to achieve the stated objectives; (iii) the Bank
should ensure the institutional framework remains satisfactory by monitoring
the achievement of institutional objectives (this includes establishing
indicators), and should provide technical assistance throughout the project to
foster and maintain institutional capacity; and (iv) the Bank should provide
strong justification when the timetable at appraisal differs significantly
from the country's average disbursement profile.
34.   Implementation problems were exacerbated by a lack of borrower
commitment to the project and the failure of the Bank to take timely and
effective measures to help deal with problems that the Bank itself had
identified. The main lesson from the experience is that the Bank must send a
clear and consistent message to the borrower by: (i) rigorously enforcing
critical covenants; (ii) making discussions of new projects contingent on
resolution of problems on ongoing projects; and (iii) granting multiple
extensions only on the basis of concrete agreements on specific actions and
timetables. Management should enforce timely disclosure of problems and
appropriate action to resolve issues.



Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Studies Included in Project
Table 6A:   Project Costs
Table 6B:   Project Financing
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions



I



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial     Partial    Ne2ligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                     /
Sector policies                                                                    /
Financial objectives                                                               /
Institutional development                            /
Physical objectives                                  /
Poverty reduction                                                                  /
Gender issues                                                                      /
Other social objectives                                                            /
Environmental objectives                                                           /
Public sector management                                                           /
Private sector development                                                         ,
Other (energy conservation)                         /
B. Proiect Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                                                 i
Preparation Assistance                                     /
Appraisal                                                                      *
Supervision                                                                    /
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation*                                               /
Implementation                                                                 /
Covenant Compliance                                                            /
E. Assessment of Outcome**         Highly                                             Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
* Borrower addressed concerns to Bank's satisfaction at the time.
** Based on results of substantially reprogrammed loan.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit                   Purpose                   Approval                          Status
Title
Preceding
Operations
1355-TUN /        To finance additional combustion          1977       Successfully completed in 1981, on schedule.
Power II         turbines.                                             Exceeded appraisal expectations except in regard to
energy pricing.
1864-TUN /        To build Tunisian on-shore section of     1980       Closed in 1987 after 2 extensions. Objectives
Gas 11            Algerian Transcontinental Pipeline and               substantially met, except for financial. Changes all
network distribution lines in North.                 agreed with Bank; reflected external factors and
clarification of loan agreement.
2003-TUN /        To finance STEG's rural electrification   1981        Successfully completed in 1985 as originally
Power III         program, rehabilitation of urban                      scheduled, with appraisal objectives for physical
distribution systems, and training                   facilities, social and economic considerations realized.
program.                                             Institutional objectives not fully achieved; Bank had
been too optimistic about political and social
framework.
2197-TUN /        Energy component to finance energy        1982       Closed in 1990, 18 months behind schedule. Energy
Technical         audits and efficiency studies to assess               component took 3 years longer than expected.
Assistance        and test new and renewable energy                    Problems included (i) lack of continuity in Bank
potential.                                           supervision; (ii) underestimation at appraisal of effort
and money necessary for successful implementation;
and (iii) failure of appraisal to consider impact of
electricity subsidies on users' choice of energy
sources.
2455-TUN /        To help rehabilitate STEG's               1984       Closed in 1990, 2 years later than planned, with 2
Power IV         transmission and distribution network                 extensions. Met social and economic objectives;
in urban and rural areas.                            construction of facilities completed; institutional
objectives not achieved.
Following
Operations
3023-TUN I        To attract private sector investments     1989       Closed 12131193.
Petroleum         for exploration in Tunisia and to                    Achievement of development objectives and
Exploration       strengthen ETAP's technical                          implementation progress both highly unsatisfactory
Promotion         capabilities in the management of                    because of lack of Borrower / beneficiary
petroleum resources.                                 commitment and ETAP's institutional inadequacies
and lack of autonomy.
3418-TUN /        To develop gas transmission system        1991        Under supervision. Project expected to be completed
Gas               linking north and south, enhance                     before loan closes, at lower cost than originally
Infrastructure    flexibility of Tunis distribution                    estimated. Gas transmission system almost completed
network, provide consultant services                 and field work well advanced.
with training, plan for future
infrastructure development and enhance
security of supply.
Source: Project Completion Reports



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                      Date planned                   Date actual / latest estimate
Identification                                                                                  03/84*
Preparation                                                                                     12/84*
Appraisal                                                                                       01/86
Negotiations                                               05186                                05/86
Board presentation                                         06/86                               07/03/86
Signing                                                    07/86                                07/86
Effectiveness                                              09/86                               03/17/87
Project completion                                        06/30/90                             06/30/94
Loan closing                                              06/30/90                             06/30/94
(4 extensions)
Sources: World Bank Management Information System, President's Report
* President's Report lists identification mission as having taken place 04/85 and gives no date for preparation mission.



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY87        FY88        FY89       FY90*        FY91        FY92        FY93        FY94        FY95
Appraisal Estimate        1.00        2.20        3.20        4.00        4.00        4.00        4.00        4.00        4.00
Actual                    0.00        0.01        0.13        0.41        0.74        0.83         0.92        1.41       3.97
Actual as % of             0.0         0.5         4.1         10.3        18.5       20.8         23.0        35,3       99.3
estimate
Date of final                                                                                                          11/07/94
disbursement
Sources: President's Report, FDB Reports
* Original closing year of loan,



Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                     Cost
Study                                                         Status      (US$ 1000)                  Impact of study
Industry       Energy audits and action plans in 4 industrial  Completed         377       All enterprises signed contrats-programmes
sector audits   firms: STIR (refinery), CIOK (cement), Tunisie                             with AME comnnitting to implement the actions
Lait (milk), STIL (milk)                                                    recommended by the audits.
Proportion of actions completed:
STIR:          30%
CIOK:          Just begun.
Tunisie Lait:   70%
STIL:          Not started yet.
Tertiary       Energy audits and action plans in 6 tertiary-sector   Completed    357      Two out of the 6 firms (Tunis airport and
sector audits   buildings: 3 hotels (Bel Azur, El Hana Beach and                           Central Bank headquarters) signed contrats-
Sahara Beach), Tunis International Airport -                                programmes with AME to realize the
Carthage terminal, Central Bank of Tunisia                                  recommended actions; none have implemented
headquarters, and polyclinic (Ettaoufik).                                    the actions.
Transport      Energy audits and actions plans in 5 transit firms:   Completed   349       Two out of the 6 firms (SNT and SNDP)
sector audits   SNT (urban passenger transport), SNTRI                                     signed contrats-programmes with AME to
(intercity passenger transit), STK (regional                                 implement the actions recommended by the
passenger transit), TMK (regional merchandise                               audits.
transport), STM (merchandise transport); and I                              Proportion of actions completed:
own-goods transporter, SNDP.                                                 SNT:  50%
SNDP: 60%
Feasibility    Photovoltaic systems                           Not begun                     Discussed with Bank but finally not
study                                                                                       undertaken.
Prefeasi-      Technical/economic study for design of solar   Completed            5        Determined specifications for call for bids;
bility study   heating systems for sanitary water of Gafsa                                  project performed third trimester 1994.
Regional Hospital
Source: AME



Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                    (US$M)
Item                                    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs             costs    costs
1. Assistance to AME
Consulting Services                   *        0.32     0.32     0.02     0.13    0.15
Equipment / Materials                 -        0.08     0.08     0.94     2.60    3.54
2. Energy Conservation - Industry
Consulting Services                   0.33     0.63     0.96     0.12     0.26    0.38
Equipment / Materials                 0.77     0.74     1.51     0.00     0.00    0.00
3. Enemy Conservation - Transport
Consulting Services                   0.03     0.28     0.31     0.17     0.31    0.48
Equipment / Materials                 0.03     0.26     0.29     0.00     0.11    0.11
4. Energy Conservation - Hotels/Buildings
Consulting Services                   0.13     0.12     0.25     0.10     0.26    0.36
Equipment / Materials                 0.48     0.77     1.25     0.16     0.30    0.46
Physical Contingencies                   0.35     0.60     0.95
Price Contingencies                      0.13     0.20     0.33
TOTAL                                 2.25     4.00     6.25     1.51     3.97    5.48
Sources: President's Report, AME, and FDB Reports
*Negligible amount for local subsistence expenditures only.



Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                 Local costs   Foreign       Total     Local costs   Foreign      Total
costs                                costs
IBRD/IDA                               4.00         4.00                     3.97       3.97
Domestic contribution      2.25                     2.25        1.51                     1.51
TOTAL                   2.25        4.00        6.25         1.51        3.97        5.48
Sources: President's Report, AME and FDB Reports



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Tunisia
Energy Conservation Demonstration Project
I            l           |    Original         Revised
Covenant    Presenit   fullfill ment date   fu lfill1ment
Agreement    Section       type         status                          date                             Description of covenant                                Comments
Loan Agreement
3.01       5            CP                                          Borrower to enahle AME to fultill obligations unider Project Agreement   (i) Delays partly due to
cumbersome government
approval procedures
(ii) Government offered
program of subsidized
credit so that firms did
not finance demon--
stration actionis with
Bank loan
3.04(i)    12           C           12/31/**                        Annual review of Borrower's institutional and administrative
framework and policies for energy conservationl, including level of
petroleum products prices
3.04(ii)   12           C                                           Appropriate action to ensure efficient implemenitation of energy
conservation activities including adjustment ot petroleum prices to
reflect international levels
Schedule 2
A.         10           C           12/31/89          06/30/94      Energy Conservation Program:
1. Provision of technical assistance for design/ monitoring of energy
conservation program
2. Provision of training in hasic energy auditing and conservation
techniques
3. Provisio i of measurement and monitoring equipment for training
users and for demonstration
B.         10           C                                           Industrial Sector Component:
1. Energy audits and feasibility studies (about 12 firms)
2. Short-term energy-saving actions (e.g. monitoring systems.
retrofitting)
3. On-the-job training in energy conservation
4. Provision of basic energy-saving tools and equipment



Origirial      Revised
Covenant    Present    fulfillment date   fulfillnent
Agreement    Sectioni     type         status                        date                            Description of covenant                               Comments
C.         10          C                                         Transport Sector Component:
1. Energy audits and feasibility studies (about 8 firms and vehicle
parks)
2. Energy-saving actions (e.g. preventive maintenance)
3. On-the-job training in energy conservation management and
efficient driving practices
4. Provision of instrumentation for fuel efficiency and preventive
maintenance
D.        10           C                                         Hotels/Building Sector Component:
1. Energy audits and feasibility studies (about 8 hotels and buildings)
2. Energy-saving actions (e.g. application of renewable energies)
3. On-the-job training in energy conservation to staff
4. Provision of equipment
Project Agreement
2.01       5           C                                          AME to carry out project with due diligence                        _
2.04(a)    9           C                                          AME to periodically exchange views with Bank
l__________  2.04(b)    9             C                                          AME to inform Bank promptly of problems                           l
2.05      9            CD          Within 2                       (i) AME to prepare progress reports and submit to Bank              Not always respected in
months after                  (ii) AME to change work program as necessary on basis of review      timely fashion.
end of semester
2.06      9            C           12/31/86                       AME to select enterprises in accordance with Schedule 2 and fumnish
list to Bank for approval
3.01      5            CP|                                        Sound management of AME                                             Pursued new energy
conservation project
without first resolving
l__ l_l_l_| delays on this project.
3.02      5            C                                          AME's operation and maintenance of equipment in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices
3.03      5            C                                          AME to take out and maintain insurance satisfactory to Bank
4.01(a)   I 1          C                                          AME to maintain adequate operating and financial records



Original        Revised
Covenant    Present    fulfillment date   fulfillment
Agreement    Section         type        status                           date                              Description of covenant                                  Comments
4.01(b)    1             CD          (i) End of each                  (i) Audit of accounts, financial statements and Special Account           Not always respected in
fiscal year                     (ii) AME to submit financial statements and audit report to Bank         timely fashion.
(ii) No later                   (iii) AME to furnish other information at Bank's request
than 6 months
after end of FY
4.01(c)    1             C                                            AME to:
(i) maintain adequate separate records related to Project
(ii) retain all records for I year after Bank receives audit report from
fiscal year of last withdrawal from Loan Account
(iii) enable Bank to examine records
(iv) ensure separate accounts included in audit with separate opinion
Schedule 2: Eligibility criteria for selection of energy users
I .                                                                   Energy-savings problems representative of sector, with significant
potentials for savings, user prepared to serve as demonstration case for
other users in sector
2.                                                                    Energy manager designated in plant
3.                                                                    Agree to contribute at least 25%  (originally 35%) of costs of energy     Amended 05/15/89 at
audits, feasibility studies and training activities of Project and 100% of    borrower's request
expenditures incurred for implementing energy saving actions.            following audited
enterprises' reluctance to
fund demonstration
actions under loan.
4.                                                                    Savings sufficient to cover cost for 3 years for transport sector, 4 years
for industry, and 6 years for hotels and buildings
5.                                                                    For industrial sector drastic changes in technology, location, plant,
management and ownership should not be required



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned*                 Revised                   Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks       US$**        Weeks         US$         Weeks       US$**
Through appraisal                                                              37.0
Appraisal - Board                                                              16.9
Board - effectiveness
Supervision                                                                   48.5
Completion                                           8.0         20.2           8.0       20.2
TOTAL                                                                         110.4
Source: World Bank Management Information System
* No planned figures available.
** MIS did not provide dollar amounts.



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating*
Number    Days        Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of     Month/       of         in       staff skills     tation        ment
project cycle    year     persons    field**    represented      status      objectives           Types of problems
Through         10/84        3        10         PE, E, F,           Identification       (i) Institutional setup (limited
appraisal       12/84        2        15       EC, LO, NS             Preparation         technical and managerial capabilities
02/85        l        10                                  ,               of SME/AME); (ii) uncertainty on
03/85        2        10                                  .               best way to retrofit hotels with solar
09/85        1         8                                  .               water heaters; (iii) lack of reliable
12/85        l        2                                                  data on non-renewable energy
01/86        4        21                              Appraisal           resources.
Supervision     09/87        1         4             E            NA            NA        Delays in implementation due to
lack of experience of AME officers
(reported in supervision report but
not on Form 590).
09/88        4        14          E (3), F          I            I        Delays caused by lengthy approval
procedures (reported in supervision
report but not on Form 590).
07/89        1         4             E              1            I        No TOR or BTO in files.
10/89        1        4             PE             I             1       (i) Bankruptcy of supplier delayed
transport component; (ii) audited
enterprises did not use Bank loan to
purchase energy-efficient equipment
primari;v because of AME's
complicated procedures and
subsidized loans from GOT.
12/89,       5        11                           2             2        No 590s on file. Problems as in (ii)
03/90,       7        17             E                                    above. All 3 missions discussed
10/90       2          4                                                 preparation of another energy
conservation loan with AME.
05/91        1         4             E             3             2        Problems as above.
01/92        2         4           E, PE           2             2        Problems as above.
02/93        1         7            PE             2             2        Procurement, resolved.
Completion      11/94        0         0                           U             S        None scheduled due to (i) small size
of loan; (ii) poor execution of
project; and (iii) other priorities for
limited budget.
Sources: Back to Office and Supervision Reports, Form 590s
* Prior to FY94, Performance Ratings are for Overall Status and Project Development Objectives.
** Most missions involved two or more projects.
Codes: E= Energy specialist (includes demand management, energy planning, conservation); EC=Economist; PE=Power/energy engineer;
F=Financial specialist; LO= Loan officer; NS=not specified.



APPENDIX
Borrower Contribution to the ICR






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
COFINANCED BY
IBRD LOAN 2735-TUN
The Energy Conservation Demonstration Project cofinanced by the IBRD loan 2735-TUN
was initiated through a request addressed by the Tunisian Government to the World Bank,
following the Ministers' Council held on January 3, 1985, and devoted to energy conservation
legislation.
Following this request, identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions took place
respectively in March 1985, from September 25 to October 30, 1985, and from January 8 to 24,
1986, allowing:
to examine, in collaboration with the Tunisian organizations concerned, the
technical assistance and financing needs of the Energy Conservation Program that
the Govermment was hoping to undertake;
to identify the possibility of launching a pilot project;
to define the content of the pilot project.
The implementation of the project was thus decided for a total investment of 5.5 million
dollars of which 4 million dollars to be covered by the IBRD Loan 2735-TUN.
The Loan had two main objectives:
On the one hand, to assist A.M.E. to establish the institutional framework for
energy conservation in Tunisia, by ensuring proper training of its higher level
staff, by having demonstration audits performed in the three sectors of industry,
transport, and tertiary, and by equipping itself with appropriate tools and
measures of control.
On the other hand, to finance some energy conservation projects identified in the
above-mentioned audits.
The first objective has been largely achieved as training, audits and purchase of
measurement equipment have been made in a timely manner. The second objective, however,
has only been partially achieved.
Only two enterprises, one in the transport sector (S.N.T.) and one in the tertiary sector
(OPAT) were able to benefit from the loan. It turned out after examination of the results of the
industry audits that the amount of the loan was insufficient to meet the necessary investments
for the relevant projects.






It thus became necessary to reallocate the outstanding amount of the loan to other actions.
Negotiations with IBRD allowed a reallocation of the remainder of the loan essentially
to the rural photovoltaic program and to demonstration projects, among which solar water
heating in a hospital in GAFSA.
Procedures for bidding, opening of bids and procurement, both IBRD and local, were
very long and constraining, the two parties -- IBRD and Tunisia -- thus agreed to extend twice
the period of validity of the loan.
However, the extensions enabled AME to acquire a good experience in loan and grant
management within the framework of bilateral and multilateral agreements and to master the
methods of purchasing and supplying equipment. In this field there are numerous intervening
parties and there were financial (taxation, investment aids) and legal (ownership of equipment,
commitments on results) problems to be resolved both at the level of the administration and with
the beneficiaries of actions taken by AME.
Despite all the difficulties encountered, the project was still able to be completed and the
loan closed at approximately 100 %.
The following tables summarize the objectives and achievements of loan 2735-TUN.
AME wishes to thank the experts and staff in charge at the Industry and Energy Division
at IBRD as well as the departments of the Tunisian Ministry of Cooperation which monitored
the project and contributed to its realization.
December 1994



Project Components                         Initial Objective of the Component                  Achievements or Loan 2735-TUN
A. Energy Conservation Program                                                                       The main achievements for this component
concern
* Organization of a training cycle in energy
audits in the industrial and tertiary sectors for
representatives of consulting firms, energy
managers and senior AME.
Al - AME Technical Assistance                      Develop a demonstration prograrn of energy        * Purchase of audio-visual equipment in order to
conservation  measures and  monitor related       allow  the agency to organize training and
program activities.                               awareness activities.
* Development of a photovoltaic rural
electrification program which will provide
electricity to 2,250 isolated rural households,
located far away from the network.
A2 - Energy Audits Training                        Train  AME  personnel, energy  consumers           * Implementation ofa solar water heating system
participating in the demonstration activities and  in a hospital in order to determine the degree of
some selected technicians such as teachers in     interest of this type of installation for other
engineering schools, in energy audits and energy   institutions and, in general, for tertiary and
conservation techniques.                          residential infrastructures.
A3 - Tools/Material                                Equip AME with required tools and material to      * Purchase of equipment and material to enable
measure and monitor energy consumption, to         AME  to  achieve part of its intervention
train  energy  consumers  and  to  implement      programs in the areas of Rational Use of Energy
demonstration activities.                          (diagnostic  groups  and  energy  bus)  and
promotion of renewable energy usage (data
banks and refurbishing of Jabouza windpower
installation).



B - Industrial Sector Component                                                                              The main achievements for this component
concern;
* Implementation of energy audits and design of
action plans in four different types of
establishments of the industry sector.
BI - Audits and feasibility studies                   Undertake energy audits and feasibility studies in
approximately 12 production enterprises
B2 - Short term actions                               Implement actions to save energy in the short
term, including actions such as implementation
of a monitoring system of energy consumption
and regular verification of material and of
simple operations of adaptation, installation in
said production facilities.
B3 - On-the-job training                              Organize for the staff of the production facilities
benefitting from the project on-the-job training
with respect to energy savings.
B4 - Tools/Material                                   Equip the production facilities benefittiig from
the project with basic tools and material to make
energy savings.



C - Transport Sector Component                                                                            The main achievements for this component
concern 
* Implementation of energy audits and design of
action plans in five road transport enterprises.
Cl - Audits and feasibility studies                  Undertake energy audits and feasibility studies in   * Implementation of a certain number of actions
eight transport enterprises and vehicle fleets.     identified by the energy audit in ani enterprise
benefitting from the project (Societe Nationale
des Transports).
C2 - Short term actions                              Implement actions for short term energy savings,
such as preventive maintenance within said
enterprises and vehicle fleet.
C3 - On-the-job training                             Organize for the staff of said enterprises and
fleet benefitting from the project on-the-job
training in order to enable them to manage
energy savings and to adopt efficient driving
practices.
C4 - Instruments                                     Equip said companies and fleets benefitting from
the project with instruments that will allow more
efficient driving methods and appropriate
preventive maintenance.



D - Hotels & Buildings Component                                                                       The main achievements for this component
concern:
* Implement energy audits and design action
plans in six different types of institutions in the
tertiary sector.
Dl - Audits and feasibility studies                UIlidertake energy audits and feasibility studies in  * Implement a certain  number of actions
approximately 8 hotels and buildings.              identified by the energy audit in one building
(Air terminal of Tunis-Carthage International
Airport).
D2 - Short term actions                            Implement  a  program   of energy  savings
including use of renewable energies such as
solar heating in said hotels and infrastructures.
D3 - On-the-job traininlg                          Organize  for the staff of said  hotels and
infrastructures benefitting from the project, on-
the-job training in order to teach them how to
manage energy savings.
D4 - Material                                      Equip said hotels and buildings with appropriate
material.
NA:N1NI\ICR-2735






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
COFINANCED BY
IBRD LOAN 2735-TUN
The Energy Conservation Demonstration Project supported the policy
framework for a national energy conservation program launched by the Government
in the early 80s that resulted in the establishment of an energy pricing policy, the
creation of the Agency for Energy Conservation (AME) and the formulation of a
National Energy Conservation Program.
Consequently, project effectiveness in 1987 was accompanied by a series of
measures that were progressively introduced, dealing with:
-     review of the energy pricing policy, which consists of progressive
adjustments to internal prices to match international prices
-     modification of the energy conservation law to create a framework
more conducive to state intervention (para. 6)
-     reform of the Investment Incentives Code that eliminated the interest
rate discount. (para. 27)
On the other hand, given the difficulty encountered in managing actions to be
implemented by organizations other than AME (a situation that, in large part, was the
cause of the delays in the actions listed) the loan was reprogrammed to finance actions
that the Agency could carry out directly. (Para. 16)
Finally, in view of the reduced number of operations carried out annually
under the loan, it was agreed with the Bank to proceed to annual audits of the loan in
a grouped manner. (Para. 28)
April 13, 1995









IMAG ING
Report No:        14506
Type: ICR



