The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4351-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
June 6, 1986
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performarice l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
CY 1985                      March 1986
US$1           =    TD 0.757                     TD 0.740
TD1            =    US$1.321                     US$1.351
The rate used in the President's Report is: US$1 = TD 0.73
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AME  - Agence de Maitrise de l'Energie
(Agency for Energy Conservation)
API  - Agence de Promotion des Investissements Industriels
(Agency for Industrial Investments Promotion)
ETAP - Entreprise Tunisienne d'Activites Petrolieres
(Tunisian Petroleum Company)
FHME - Fonds des Hydrocarbures et de Maitrise de 1'Energie
(Funds for Hydrocarbons and Energy Conservation)
MEM  - Ministere de l'Energie et des Mines
(Ministry of Energy and Mining)
SME  -  Societe de Maitrise de l'Energie
(Center for Energy Conservation)
STEG - Societe Tunisienne d'Electricite et de Gaz
(Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company)
LPG  -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
Toe  - Ton of Oil Equivalent



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
ENERGY CONSMSATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Government of Tunisia.
Amount:           US$4.0 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The project would: (i) help the Agency for Energy
Conservation (AME) develop an effective institutional
and policy framework for a national energy conservation
program; (ii) strengthen AME's abilities to promote and
monitor the national action program, and the local
consulting capabilities for carrying out energy audits,
and implementing energy efficiency actions at
users' level; and (iii) finance the development and
implementation of specific, short-term actions
(technical assistance and basic equipment) for 28
selected enterprises to demonstrate the benefits of
energy conservation to other users in the same sectors.
Benefits and
Risks:          The proposed demonstration project would yield an
average total energy saving estimated at some US$3.4
million per year (at crude oil prices of US$15 per
barrel). The technical, financial and commercial risks
associated with the project are minimal. Energy
conservation measures would be based on proven
technologies and practices, and the financing
requirements are modest compared to expected returns.
Also, by rationalizing energy use, the project would
have a long-term beneficial impact on the preservation
of Tunisia's natural resources and environment. The
principal risk relates to the fact that the expected
secondary or demonstration effects on other users in
the selected sectors may be slow to materialize, due to
the promotional difficulties common to demonstration
undertakings. This risk is reduced through the special
technical assistance given to AME for promotion and
extension activities, and through the system of
obligatory periodic audits established under the Energy
Conservation Law.
This document hs a strctod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheir officidutieL its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoxition.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                              Local  Foreign   Total
-   (US$ million) -
I.   Assistance to AME
Consulting Services                      *       0.32    0.32
Equipment/Materials                              0.08    0.08
-      0.40    0.40
II.  Energy Conservation - Industry
Consulting Services                   0.33    0.63    0.96
Equipment/Materials                   0.77    0.74    1.51
1.10    1.37    2.47
III. Energy Conservation - Transport
Consulting Services                     0.03    0.28    0.31
Equipment/Materials                     0.03    0.26    0.29
0.06    0.54    0.60
IV. Energy Conservation - Hotels/Buildings
Consulting Services                     0.13    0.12    0.25
Equipment/Materials                     0.48    0.77    1.25
0.61    0.89    1.50
Total Base Costs
Consulting Services                           0.49    1.35    1.84
Equipment/Mater-ials                          1.28    1.85    3.13
1.77    3.20    4.97
Physical Contingencies                        0.35    0.60    0.95
Price Contingencies                           0.13    0.20    0.33
Total Costs (exempt                     2.25    4.00    6.2.5
from taxes & duties)                              =      -
Financing Plan:  IBRD                           -      4.00    4.00
Government/Users             2.25     -       2.25
2.25    4.00    6.25
Disbursement
Estimates:                     Bank FY:    1987   1988   1989   1990
(US$ million)-
Annual                                       1.0    1.2    1.0      0.8
Cumulative                                   1.0    2.2    3.2     4.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        None.
*   Negligible amount for local subsistence expenditures only.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR AN ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$4 mill!'p to the Republic of Tunisia to help finance
an Energy Conservation Demonstration Project. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic Memorandum:
Midterm Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)", in two volumes
(No. 5328-TUN), was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1985.
An economic mission to review the macro-economic framework of the Seventh Plan
(1987-1991) visited Tunisia in January 1986; its findings are reflected in
this part and the country data sheets attached in Annex I.
3.       Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of
7.5 million and a per capita income of about $1100 1/. Much of Tunisia is arid
or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year
fluctuations in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one
out of every three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable
reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon
reserves are limited and require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now
given to slowing down the growth of domestic energy consumption through
conservation and pricing measures. The low quality of phosphate deposits
constrains the expansion of the highly efficient Tunisian phosphate processing
industry. The country has also a considerable tourism potential; after a
period of stagnation due to high prices and unsatisfactory quality standards,
tourism resumed rapid growth in 1985.
4.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and
technical and vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and
the early 1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 83,
life expectancy at birth rose from 48 to 62 years, the adult literacy rate
increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric intake per
capita increased from 95 to lll percent of minimum standard requirements. An
active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease in
1/ 1985 figure at current prices and actual exchange rates.



fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.4 percent over the
same period. However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the European Economic Community
countries and Libya, the growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main
reason for the rapidly growing, serious unemployment problem. Open
unemployment reached 14 percent in 1983 and underemployment is extensive.
These problems are particularly serious among the young.
5.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy
did well. Rapid growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by
substantial structural transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more
diversified and their share in total exports increased. Economic performance
benefitted from substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price
increase of oil, allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase
and investment to remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted
from improved economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. Price inflation was relatively modest, averaging
6.4 percent during this period. The balance of payments current account
deficit, averaging 5 to 6 percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed,
much of it by direct foreign investment. The debt service ratio was
10 percent at the end of the decade. The only major problem was a
persistently high rate of unemployment/underemployment.
6.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment generation, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments, and encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened income policy, particularly in cautious wage and
salary policies, and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.
7.       However, economic performance deteriorated during the Plan period.
In 1982, a prolonged drought depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial
production, technical problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries,
and tourism and exports of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the
recession in Europe and high domestic prices. Also, o-l production stagnated
during the Plan period. The economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant
growth in manufacturing output, stimulated by rapidly expanding local demand.
Growth was further stimulated in 1985 by an exceptionally good agricultural
crop and resumed growth in tourism, bringing the average annual GDP growth in
the first four years of the Plan to 3.7 percent, compared to 6.3 percent
targeted. This performance was nonetheless favorable in view of the world
recession, and as compared with other countries.
8.       The Government was slow in adjusting domestic demand to the
decelerated economic growth. In contrast to the Plan's macro-economic
objectives, the investment rate remained high rather than declined, mainly due
to high public enterprise investments in energy and transportation, while
domestic consumption expanded rapidly, fuelled by sharp increases in wages and



-3-
salaries in 1982 and early 1983. This strong demand pressure, facilitated by
rather liberal credit policies, was reflected in rising inflation which
averaged nearly 10.5 percent in 1982-84, compared to 7.5 percent over
1977-81. It also contributed substantially towards the marked worsening of
the current account deficit of the balance of payments, which reached
11 percent of GDP in 1984.  The Government's overall budget deficit also
increased from 5.3 to over 7 percent of GDP between 1982 and 1984. This
reflected increases in recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary
increases, higher subsidy payments to households and public enterprises,
higher public investments and growing dollar-denominated debt service payments
(caused by a 57 percent dollar appreciation vis-s-vis the Tunisian dinar
between 1981 and 1984).
9.       While the situation had not reached crisis proportions, the trend
observed during 1981-84 clearly could not be sustained. Faced with this
deterioration, the Government started to implement a package of policy
measures aimed at stabilizing the economy. The minimum wage has not increased
since January 1983. As a result, average nominal salaries increased by less
than 3 percent per annum over the last three years, resulting in a cumulative
decline of real salaries by over 15 percent by mid-1986. In April 1985,
general interest rates were raised by 1-2 points and, later during the year,
low special interest rates were raised by 3-4 points; with inflation declining
to about 7 percent in 1985, most rates are now positive in real terms. In
mid-1985 the authorities adopted a more flexible exchange rate policy
resulting in a gradual downward adjustment of the dinar vis-a-vis European
currencies. Finally, credit expansion was kept in line with GDP growth in
1985.
10.      As a result of these measures, and of the imposition of drastic
foreign exchange and import restrictions, the balance of payments current
account deficit was brought back to 7 percent of GDP in 1985, despite reduced
exports of oil and phosphates. While this improved the immediate situation,
the underlying disequilibrium has not been resolved, and problems usually
associated with controls, such as growing shortages of raw materials,
semi-finished products and spare parts, have appeared. Meanwhile, the budget
deficit rose to about 9 percent of GDP in 1985 because of a slowdown in
revenues, despite a slight decline of capital expenditures in real terms. The
authorities prepared a restrictive budget for 1986, designed to reduce this
deficit to about 7 percent of GDP through a number of measures including a 15
percent reduction in real terms of subsidies to households and public
enterprises. The decline in overall public expenditures of over 2 percent in
real terms will make it possible to increase urgently needed imports of raw
materials and spare parts for the country's productive sectors without
exceeding last year's balance of payments deficit.
11.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors:  future
developments in the hydrocarbon sector, and the speed with which the
Government implements the far-reaching macro-economic policy changes discussed
below. Oil and gas exploration programs since the mid-1970s have not been
encouraging. Barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in
domestic energy demand, Tunisia is generally expected to turn into a net oil
importer in the early 1990s.
12.      Preparation of the Seventh Plan (1987-1991) is currently underway.
Preliminary indications are that the Government will give high priority to a



- 4 -
rapid improvement of the balance of payments and to more employment creation.
To attain these objectives, it intends to pursue a strategy based on
stimulation of non-oil exports, more efficient utilization of domestic
economic resources, especially of human capital, and better savings
mobilization through more restrictive demand management. Preliminary
projections indicate that a GDP growth of 3.5-4 percent per annum, and a
reduction in the current account deficit can be achieved without a systematic
recourse to quantitative restrictions and other protection measures, and
without excessive external borrowing. This growth scenario would only be
possible, however, if additional substantive adjustment measures are taken
over and above the ones already implemented.
13.      The Tunisian authorities, in consultation with the Bank, have
prepared a program of structural reforms emphasizing policy action in eight
different fields: wages and salaries, exchange rate, budgetary policies,
interest rates, monetary and credit policies, price and investment
liberalization, and import protection. In the first five of these fields, the
Government has, over the last few years, made considerable and successful
efforts, and all indications are that it will continue to do so. Restrictive
wage and salary policies are likely to continue; an austere budget is in place
for 1986, and guidelines for the coming years include a nearly 10 percent
annual reduction in subsidies in real terms. Most interest rates are now
positive. On the exchange rate, the Government recognizes that a flexible
policy has to be followed to improve Tunisia's competitiveness in
agricultural and manufactured products, as well as in tourism, in order to
achieve its ambitious export targets.
14.      While substantial progress has been made since the early 1980s on
these important issues, progress has been more limited in the remaining areas,
i.e., on price and investment liberalization and import protection. Over the
Iast years, the Government has focused with some success on administrative
type measures. Concerned with immediate economic and social problems, it
resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls such as
mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. The price liberalization
process has moved slowly, with some reductions in price subsidies
(particularly for transportation and energy), increasing liberalization of
agricultural producer prices and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. While investment incentives were modified to stimulate
exports and promote regional development, strict investment licensing was
still maintained. The program of structural reforms to be implemented over
the coming 2-3 years includes a number of concrete policy changes aimed at
dealing with these issues, so as to achieve a gradual but systematic decontrol
of the economy.
15.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
tcwards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 10 percent in 1984. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
social services. On one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of, and sensitive to income distribution issues, and to the Government's
responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of
past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the improvement of the



country social data (see Annex I), have created a demand for improved
standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the provision of
adequate social services - education, health, urban infrastructure, housing -
is being increasingly hampered by budgetary constraints. To reduce the
financial burden of social services, the administration is reviewing the cost
structure of the various types of social services, including free or
below-cost delivery, and the possible introduction of some user fees. Special
efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure management, in particular
as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities to deprived
zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for servicing and
maintaining them could become prohibitive.
16.      To reduce socio-economic differences, in particular between rural and
urban areas, and between workers in the modern sector and those precariously
employed in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources
into regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs are
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises, and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand.
17.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 8), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. According to preliminary estimates, total
public foreign debt outstanding and disbursed reached nearly $4.1 billion (50
percent of GDP) at the end of 1985. The debt service ratio rose to about 22
percent in 1985. However, the Tunisian authoritied have followed cautious
debt management policies; while the share of short-term borrowings has
increased slightly since 1980, Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains
predominantly long and medium-term, and debt service requirements are
projected to increase only slowly. During 1980-84, 60 percent of foreign loan
commitments were from official sources, and nearly 35 percent on concessional
terms. Over 70 percent of official commitments came from bilateral sources
(mainly Arab oil-producing countries, France, Japan and the Federal Republic
of Germany), about 20 percent from the Bank Group and 10 percent from other
multilateral sources. Overall borrowing terms were favorable, averaging
8 percent interest and 15.2 years maturity.
18.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements should remain
easily manageable. In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes
to be initiated during the next few years. The Government's medium-term
objective is to maintain the present level of indebtedness; this prospect
strongly depends on a timely implementation of policy measures to accelerate
exports, reduce public investments, slow down growth of domestic demand, and
liberalize the economy by easing regulations and controls. On this basis, the
current account deficit is projected to average about $540 million in 1988 and
1989, but decline thereafter. During 1986-91 new loan commitments from abroad
could be kept at a little over $1 billion per year on average (in current
prices), while net foreign borrowing might increase from about $360 to $400
million during the same period; this could result in a debt service ratio
peaking at about 25 percent in 1990.



19.      To conclude, Tunisia, after a decade of good performance, is facing a
major challenge in having to adapt its economic structure to the post-
hydrocarbon era at a time of external and internal financial constraints. A
strategy of demand restraint and export promotion combined with more liberal
economic policies is called for to improve efficiency and preserve the
country's financial stability and creditworthiness. The Goverment has already
taken several measures to implement such a strategy. Considering its long
record of prudent external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy changes, and remain
creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
20.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-nine loans and
ten IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,481 million and $75.2 million
(net of cancellations) of which forty-four loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1986, overall disbursements amounted to
52.5 percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, energy,
industrial finance and port projects has generally been above the country
average, while longer than average disbursement delays have been experienced
for agricultural credit, education, highways, urban and fisheries projects,
due to project-specific problems that are being addressed through supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have
been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
21.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustment process will require further
diversification of exports, greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer
subsidies, gradual liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger
incentives to the private sector particularly in agriculture and industry,
while taking measures to increase employment and target development to
low-income groups. In support of the above, the overall objective of Bank
lending is to emphasize projects which have a direct and rapid impact on
production, employment and exports (or import savings) and which minimize
Government net contributions. The focus of lending for agriculture and
industry meets this objective. In addition to the above, proposed Bank
lending would focus on improvement of public enterprise performance,
conservation and development of energy resources, and continued support to the
social sectors and operations targeted to low-income groups. For the latter,
attention would be given to increased efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
institutions and investments, and to linkages with directly productive sectors
(e.g., education reforms stressing vocational training). We envisage only
marginal lending for basic economic infrastructure, focussed in areas where
Bank guidance would still be useful, such as rural water supply and highways
maintenance.
22.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments



7-
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Banc has made two loans for technical assistance. Within the
broad framework noted in para. 21, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the proposed Energy Conservation Demonstration Project, programmed lending
in the next couple of years would include projects for urban development,
highways maintenance, grain storage, credit lines for small-scale industries
and agriculture, and sector loans for agriculture and industry.
23.      The Bank's economic and sector work will address the increasing
complexity of the macro-economic and sector problems that Tunisia will face in
the medium term, and continue to focus on strengthening the macro-economic and
sector base for our lending program. However, while in the past it was mainly
devoted to the study of major structural problems, it is now focussed on
implementing the policy recommendations of these studies through sector
lending in agriculture, manufactured exports, public enterprises and
transport; it will therefore concentrate on the following main tasks: (a)
preparation of the macro-economic framework of the Seventh Plan, which will
provide the policy base of sector lending; (b) review of public expenditures
under the Plan to provide guidance for the necessary reductions in budget
outlays; (c) assessment of public enterprise reforms prepared by the
Government to reduce their drain on the State budget; and (d) monitoring of
the agreed macro-economic and sector policy changes. The program also
includes studies on education administration and finance, municipal finance
and development, energy pricing, and the impact of the adjustment program on
various income groups.
24.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 27.8 percent of total
commitments from official sources to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in
total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from
private sources) was an estimated 14.8 percent, and their share in debt
service during 1984 was 11.7 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in
Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to increase to about
18.7 percent and their share in the debt service to about 17.3 percent in 1986.
25.      As of March 31, 1986, IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled about
$7.5 million. IFC has supported the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET) to foster development projects, and the National Bank for Tourism
Development (BNDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects. It has also
assisted the Societe Touristique et Hoteliere (RYM), a large hotel
development; the Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export; and the Societe d'Etudes et de
Developpement de Sousse-Nord for an integrated tourism development project.
In FY84, IFC approved two new equitv investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a
project to privatize, rehabilitate and expand an existing fluorspar mine; and
(ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first leasing company in Tunisia to provide
financing to the industrial sector. IFC's approval in FY86 of an equity
investment in Societe Industrielle de Textiles (SITEX) would help privatize an
existing state-owned textile mill.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
26.      Energy Resources.  Tunisia's energy base, balance and consumption
patterns and trends are discussed in more detail in Annex rV-1. In brief, oil
and gas are Tunisia's main energy resources. In addition, the country has a



-8-
modest hydropower potential, some lignite deposits and geothermal resources as
well as the possibility for using renewable energy, notably solar and wind
energy. Proven reserves of oil and gas are estimated at 70 mil'lion tons and
66 million tons of oil equivalent, respectively. El Borma, in the
southwestern desert area bordering Algeria, and Ashtart, offshore in the Gulf
of Gabes, are the major oil fields, contributing about 85 percent to total oil
production. Both fields are depleting rapidly and will cease production in
the 1990s. Natural gas is produced at El Borma as associated gas, and from a
small reservoir at Cap Bon. In addition, starting in 1984, Tunisia is
receiving natural gas as royalty (in kind or cash) for the transit through its
territory of the Algeria-Italy Transcontinental Pipeline, and purchases, under
a three-year contract, additional gas from Algeria. Major untapped gas
reserves exist offshore in the gulf of Gabes (Miskar and Jugurtha) and onshore
at El Franig near the Chott El Djerid. Given the depletion of its oil
resources, the Government expected that natural gas would play an increasingly
important role in meeting Tunisia's medium-term energy requirements. The
viability of this gas option still remains to be determined in view of the
high investments required for production, distribution and conversion, and the
current fall in oil prices.
27.      Tunisia has also a small already exploited hydropower potential of
about 65 MW which includes the recently commissioned Sidi Salem plant, part of
a multi-purpose project in which the Bank is participating. Poor quality
lignite deposits in two locations are prosently under study.  Underground hot
water resources exist at several locationi. The extent of this geothermal
potential is being investigated in the context of the Bank-assisted Technical
Assistance Project (No. 2197-TUN). Several experimental schemes are planned
or are under way to determine the viability of exploiting Tunisia's renewable
energy resources.
Energy Balance
28.      In 1984, the total commercial energy consumption in Tunisia was
estimated at about 3.8 million toe. As seen in the following table, Tunisia
is almost totally dependent on hydrocarbons for meeting its commercial
Tunisia - Energy Balance in 1984
('000 tons of oil equivalent)
Supply               Amount    X           Demand                 Amount    Z
Domestic Crude Oil    5,487                Crude Oil Exports      3,831
Domestic Production                        Domcstic Consumption
Oil Products         1,538    41           Industry              1,043    28
Natural Gas            692    18           Transport               982    26
Hydro Power             16     1          Commerce                 164     4
Subtotal         2,246    60           Others                  469    12
Stocks & Losses        174     5              Subtotal           2,658    70
2,420    65
Imports
Oil Products        1,145    30         Electricity               842    22
Natural Gas            120     3        Stocks and Conversion
Coal & Coke             71     2          Losses                   256     8
Subtotal         1,336    35
Total            3,756   100               Total              3,756   100
Sources: MEM and Bank staff estimates.



- 9 -
energy requirements. In 1984, oil represented about 74 percent of the
commercial energy consumed; natural and manufactured gas another 23 percent;
the remaining 3 percent was met by hydro and imported hard coal and coke.
During the period 1976-84, when the average real rate of GDP growth was about
5 percent per year, the growth of energy consumption averaged some 8 percent
per year. This high growth consumption rate was primarily due to the
accelerated growth of the industrial sector (especially of energy-intensive
industries such as building materials, chemicals and refineries) encouraged by
low domestic energy prices.
29.      Crude oil and gas production increased from about 4.8 million toe in
1976 to 6.3 million toe in 1984. Tunisia has been a net exporter of crude oil
(3.8 million tons in 1984) and the Government continues to depend on the
foreign e.ichange provided by these exports to sustain the growth of the
economy.  However, because of the limited local refinery throughput (1.6
million tons per year) and the growth in demand, Tunisia has had to import a
substantial volume of oil products (1.1 million tons in 1984). The 1984
domestic natural gas 2roduction estimated at 692,000 toe, includes some
314,500 toe of gas received as transit fee for the Algerian Transcontinental
Pipeline to Italy. In addition, Tunisia purchased about 120,000 toe of gas
from Algeria by tapping this pipeline. Electricity production (estimated in
1984 at 841,700 toe) has been mostly gas based (87 percent of total national
gas consumption) with fuel oil accounting for 37 percent of total fuel oil
consumption.
30.      On the consumption side, induscry is the largest energy user in the
country, accounting for about 28 percent of the total domestic consumption
(42 percent including electricity), followed by transport (28 percent).
Within the industrial sector, cement and other building materials account for
almost 43 percent, phosphate mining 16 percent, steel and mechanical
industries 15 percent, and chemicals 9 percent. The total industrial energy
consumption (1.5 million toe in 1984 including electricity) comes from heavy
and light fuel oil (45 percent), purchased electricity (28 percent), natural
gas (11 percent), gasoil (9 percent) and other sources (7 percent). It is
estimated that in 1984, 30 of the most energy-intensive plants, publicly owned
in full or in part, accounted for about 60 percent of industrial energy
consumption. Within the transport sector, road transport activities are the
heaviest energy users (69 percent of the estimated total sectoral consumption
in 1984), followed by air (15.5 percent), and maritime transport
(12 percent). Broken down by energy types, this sector is found to rely
heavily on gasoil (over 66 percent) and gasoline (almost 23 percent).
Although there is little information available on fuel use by vehicle
category, it has been estimated that public passenger and cargo transport
activities account for some 13 percent of the road fuel consumption (or about
82,300 toe in 1984). The commercial sector consumed in 1984 about 401,000
toe, of which electricity was estimated to be 237,300 toe. Hotels are the
most important energy users, accounting for some 60-70 percent of the total
sectoral consumption. Data on the other users (essentially commercial and
institutional buildings) are not available. Almost all of the energy used in
this sector is for heating and cooling, coming from electricity (59 percent)
and gasoil (29 percent). Most of the sectoral energy consumption is accounted
for by a relatively small number of large hotels.
Future Prospects
31.      The Tunisian oil and gas sector is expected to be in a difficult



- 10 -
position over the next 5-10 years. No major oil reserves have been
discovered, and well results since 1984 have been disappointing. Production
from the two existing major oil fields (El Borma and Ashtart) will continue to
decline, with a parallel decline in the natural gas resources currently
exploited in association with El Borma. As discussed previously, there are
other proven potential gas fields (Miskar is the most important one), but the
economic viability of their production is still uncertain. For the remainder
of the decade, the terms of trade for Tunisia are not expected to be as
favorable as in the 1970s and early 1980s due to the continuing softening of
petroleum prices. These lower prices in turn make decisions on the large
investments required to develop new domestic supply sources more difficult.
In the absence of efforts to rationalize national energy consumption, to
develop domestic reserves and other energy sources, Tunisia would become a aet
energy importer by the early 1990s.
fuisia - Enew Suwly and Desrd Permx-ims
('000 tons of oil equilent)
Suply in 1990                          DaofIK in 1990
Dead Alternatives:  Base  Z   LoW             Z              EB     2  Lo    Z
ility of
lstic Crude Oil 4,400      4,400        L-& Oil Ecolts    2,800      2,800
Dhestic Pmductiol                         DlXEstic (XmpIm
Oil Prodhucs     1,600  30 1,600  34      TIq&tzy          1,540  29 1,292  27
icuul Chs        1,045  20 1,045  22      1hup,ort         1,348  25 1,34  24
HydZr POW:         19   1    19   1       Q==en            159   3   137   3
Subtotal      2,664  51 2,664  57      0tE#S            _ 56   11  497  11
StbtotaL      3,612  68 3,060  65
Mworts
Oil PoActs       2,508  47 1,916  41    Electricity (in-
atuml (As           -   -                cluIirg losses)    1,660  32 1,620  35
Cbal & Coke       100   2   100   2
Subtotal      2,608  49 2,016  43
Thtal         5,272 100 7,680 100        Total          5,272 10  4,680  00
Sau=ce: World Bmk staff Est'tes.
32.      The above 1990 energy balance projections are based on a conservative
GDP growth of about 3.7 percent per annum, and two alternative energy demand
growth rates: 6 percent per annum in the base case, and 3.7 percent per annum
in the low demand case, with the assumptions that: (i) the existing domestic
refinery capacity would remain unchanged (because expansion investments may
not be justified in the face of expected softening of international oil
prices); and (ii) a substantial gas substitution rate would not be a viable
option (due to the current oil price trends and the possible constraints with
regard to distribution infrastructure and equipment conversion at user



- 11 -
levels). The low demand case implies a decline in the elasticity of energy
demand from over 1.5 in 1984 to about 1.0, which could be achieved by 1990
only if vigorous energy conservation and rationalization efforts are
undertaken soon. It is important to note that, even in this low demand
scenario, Tunisia's domestic energy balance would deteriorate with crude oil
exports declining from almost 4 million toe in 1984/85 to only about 2.8
million toe by 1990.
Energy Savings Potential
33.      Energy efficiency surveys carried out during 1980-84 by the
Government with assistance from the USA and France indicate that potential
energy savings in the country for the period 1985-1990 can be summarized as
follows:
Tunisia - Potential Energy Savings
Potential Annual Savings
Share of Total           With          Contri-
1984 Energy a/      Investments        bution
Share Consumption    Minor Maior       to Total
('000 toe)  (X)       (X)    (Z)          (Z)
Sector
Industry                         1,453     42         10     20          4-8
Transport                          983     28         10     15           3-6
Commrcial/Residential             876     25         10     20          3-6
Agriculture                        188      5          -      -             -
Total                       3,500    100                          10-20
a/ These include electricity consumption, net of generation and
distribution losses.
34.      At the 1984 consumption level for the industrial sector, the
estimated sectoral savings would represent some $14-29 million per year, at
$100 per toe (or $15 per barrel of crude oil). For the transport sector,
potential savings have been estimated at about $10-15 million per year, and
for commercial/residential sector to some $8-16 million per year. About 40-50
percent of these potential savings can be realized with modest investments
through better housekeeping, and simple operational and maintenance
procedures. Experience in developed and developing countries confirms that
these simple measures represent an essential first phase in an energy
conservation program. The proposed project would finance these first-phase
measures.
35.      Energy Conservation Policies.  Significant improvements have been
achieved by the Government in energy pricing. As a result of the successive
price increases since 1980 (the most recent in December 1985), and in view of
the current continuing softening of international oil prices, domestic prices
of petroleum products are above international levels. The domestic retail to
border price ratios as of May 1986 ranged between 4.7 for gasoline and 2.6 for
gasoil, with almost 2.2 for heavy fuel oil. During negotiations, it was
agreed: (i) that the Government and the Bank will hold annual consultations,
not later than December 31 of each year during project implementation, to
review energy conservation policies in the country, including the Government's



- 12 -
energy pricing policy, with the objective of maintaining national energy
prices for petroleum products at international levels and ensuring efficient
implementation of energy conservation activities; and (ii) that the Government
will take appropriate measures on the basis of this review. However,
appropriate energy prices alone are not sufficient to generate interest in
conservation, as the current price control system regulating the industrial
sector allows producers to pass on all production cost increases to
consumers. The Bank is discussing price liberalization reforms as part of its
macro-economic policy dialogue with the Government, and this issue would be
addressed specifically in the context of sector lending operations now under
preparation.
36.      Energy and its efficient use is being assigned top priority by the
Government in its Seventh Development Plan (1987-91). In 1985, an Energy
Conservation Law was passed, calling for: (i) the establishment of an Agency
for Energy Conservation (Agence de Maitrise de l'Energie [AME]), an autonomous
public institution under the supervision of the Ministry of Energy and Mining
(MEM) to promote, implement and coordinate national energy conservation
policies and action programs, including energy-related training, setting of
standards and norms in energy efficiency for all major users in the country;
(iii) obligatory periodic energy audits by auditors to be licensed by AME;
(iv) provision of incentives to users to promote energy efficiency and the
development of new/renewable energy sources; and (v) setting of
"contract-programs" between AME and users/enterprises benefitting from the
incentives provided under the Law, to implement and monitor the actions under
(ii) through (iv) above. This legislation was prepared in close consultation
with the Bank by the Societe de Maitrise de l'Energie (SME) created in 1984 to
prepare the way for AME. The latter has already been created. Next in
priority is the preparation of the implementation procedures of the
Conservation Law. These include the decrees related to the obligatory
periodic energy audits, and the role of AME in reviewing energy-intensive
investment proposals in coordination with existing agencies (e.g., the Agency
for Industrial Investment Promotion [API|), and the administrative circular
regarding the procedures for granting and controlling energy conservation
incentives, including the system of contract-programs. These decrees are
being prepared by AME with the assistance of foreign advisors financed through
French bilateral aid, and in close consultation with the Bank. It was agreed,
during negotiat.ons, that the draft decrees, which will be ready by end-1986,
will be reviewed by the Bank prior to their promulgation.
37.      In light of the policy environment discussed above, the system of
mandatory periodic audits would help ensure that, in the foreseeable future,
the needed energy conservation measures will take place effectively and
rapidly in the country. The audit periodicity is expected to be every 2-3
years, with the first audit being a real, full audit and subsequent ones being
more of an update of the information already established within the
enterprises. To allow sufficient time for energy users and local consultants
to get ready, the energy consumption threshold value above which a periodic
audit is required would be phased over 2-3 years from 1987, starting with the
larger energy users and gradually incorporating smaller users in subsequent
years; different threshold values will be applied depending on the
characteristics of each sector. Thus it is estimated that about 100
industrial enterprises, 50 transport companies, and 50 hotel establishments
would be covered by this periodic audit regulation between 1987 and 1989.
With regard to incentives measures, the Law provides for small grants to help



- 13 -
users with the costs of energy audits, staff training, and feasibility studies
(50 percent of costs, subject to ceilings ranging between $2,500-25,000
equivalent depending on the type of activity), as well as duty exemptions on
imported equipment not produced in the country. Users submitted to the
periodic audit regulation and desiring to receive Government incentives would
sign a contract-program with AME which spells out an agreed set of efficiency
remedial actions and targets they are committed to implement and achieve over
a specific time period. Approved investments would be eligible for credit
that the local banking system would make available under terms and conditions
defined by the Central Bank of Tunisia, as indicated in the Conservation Law.
This package of incentives was reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and
negotiations, and is considered appropriate. As indicated above (para. 36),
detailed implementation procedures will be reviewed by the Bank to its
satisfaction.
38.      Institutional Framework for Energy Conservation.  The institutional
framework for implementing and enforcing the Energy Conservation Law consists
of: (a) the General Directorate of Energy (DGE) located within the Ministry
of Energy and Mining (MEM) responsible for national energy policies and
planning, and overall management of energy-related activities in the country;
(b) AME which has three functions: (i) to prepare the necessary
studies/analyses for a rational and effective use of traditional and renewable
energy resources in the country, and help formulate related policy measures
and actions for Government decision; (ii) to implement these Government
policies through the formulation, promotion, supervision and control of the
related regulations and action programs, including the screening of the
qualifications of Tunisian energy auditors and specialists, and approving them
for use by energy consumers; and (iii) to undertake and coordinate training
for the rational use of energy including the use of renewable energy
resources; and (c) the local consulting firms to be hired by energy users to
carry out in their plants/establishments energy audits and resulting
recommended operations.
39.      Organization of AME.  The Government appointed in December 1985 a
qualified president-director general for AME, who had worked previously in the
Tunisian Petroleum Company (ETAP) as well as in the Ministry of Industry, and
served as head of the State Agency for Industrial Investments Promotion (API)
whose basic promotional, supervisory and assistance activities for industry
are similar in nature to the activities of AME in energy conservation. AME,
under the supervisory authority of MEM, will operate as an autonomous
institution, with a board consisting of representatives from MEM and the
Ministry of Coimerce and Indusl:ry (both the General Directorates of Energy and
Industry), the Ministries of P'anning, Finance, Housing and Public Works,
Transport, Agriculture, and Totrism and the Central Bank. AME's organization
chart was established in consultation with the Bank (Annex IV-2).  At full
operation by 1987/88, AME will have a maximum total professional staff of 18
divided into 5 departments: Promotion (2), Studies/Planning (4), Technical
Operations (8), Renewable Energy (1), and Finance/Administration (3). This
staffing was assessed during appraisal, and is considered sufficient for AME's
planned activities. The Studies/Planning Department is already fully
operational with four staff transferred from SME, and the Technical Operations
Department is in place with four newly recruited experienced engineers. They
are to work closely with the four technicians currently in SME responsible for
managing the on-going energy component under the Bank'& Technical Assistance
Project.



- 14 -
40.      The services of a foreign resident advisor and institutional/regu-
latory specialist, provided to AME through bilateral aid, are expected to be
continued for another 1-2 years. To assist AME's promotional and follow-up
responsibilities, the services of specialized consultants would also be
provided under the proposed project for the training of staff and the design
of promotional activities as well as operational procedures required for
efficient monitoring/control of the regulations/action programs.
41.      Local Consulting Capabilities.  The actual implementation of energy
audits and conservation actions at users' level would be carried out by energy
auditors and specialists to be approved by AME. According to the Law, to
fulfill the periodic audit obligation, and be eligible for the Government's
energy efficiency incentives, users can contract only consultants/experts
licensed by AME and not affiliated with the user(s). The rules and procedures
for qualifying these local consultants have been prepared by AME, reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory. The local consulting industry is keenly
interested in getting into this new field; a few consultant firms have already
hired staff with appropriate backgrounds, and have associated themselves with
foreign consultants to carry out the energy audits being financed under the
Bank's ongoing Technical Assistance Project. It is expected that over the
next three years, after some training and actual practice under the guidance
of foreign specialists, there would be some 4-5 qualified firms. On-the-job
training has already started under the Bank's Technical Assistance Project,
and would be pursued under the proposed project, in close coordination with
other ongoing and future bilateral/multilateral aid programs. As there is
already some local experience in the building/hotel sector, it is envisaged
that the existing local consulting firms would have a significant
participation relatively early in this sector; in contrast, their
qualification in the industrial sector would need further and more intense
strengthening.
42.      To ensure efficiency, AME will certify individual energy auditors and
conservation specialists rather than consulting firms. An understanding was
reached during negotiations that having fulfilled its mandate, SME will be
dismantled after the completion of its current activities under the Technical
Assistance Project, and that the public institutional framework for energy
conservation will remain as light and flexible as possible, allowing the
development of private initiatives and an effective competitive participation
of local private consultants in the national conservation program.
43.      Energy Conservation Activities.  Since 1980, preliminary energy
audits have been carried out with US and French assistance for some 15 large
public enterprises in the most energy-intensive industries. These activities
have not, however, led to tangible results because the quality of the audit
reports has been quite uneven; the audits were carried out in a sporadic,
uncoordinated manner, and, especially, without the active participation and
commitment of the users; the enterprises audited have serious problems of
basic viability or corporate restructuring which require further Government
decisions and more complex remedial actions; more importantly, there was no
consistent, well-coordinated institutional set-up for the needed follow-up and
promotion work, a serious gap now filled by AME. Six industrial energy audits
are being financed under the Bank's on-going Technical Assistance Project,
together with some activities for studying/testing the possibilities for the
use of renewable energy resources; they will be completed early in 1987 by SME



- 15 -
under the supervision of AME. Also initiated by SME during 1985 are
commendable promotional/sensitization activities such as conferences and
seminars (e.g., for the transport and hotel sectors). While these were useful
and appreciated (high users' attendance), participants have expressed an
urgent need for more concrete, technical actions to demonstrate what methods
and equipment/imaterials are required to resolve their specific energy
inefficiency problems. The Government, AME and the Bank intend to address
this crucial operational gap under the AME's planned activities for 1987-1989,
of which an important part is supported by the proposed project.
44.      AME's Work Program.  In close consultation with the Bank, a
preliminary AME activity program for the next three years has been formulated
bearing in mind that: (i) a demonstration approach, using a selected number of
users with representative problems, would be the most effective use of limited
available resources; (ii) demonstration cases should include a complete range
of actions, from audits to implementation of basic, short-term conservation
measures; (iii) users should be selected on the basis of their willingness to
participate in the actions (i.e., designation of an energy manager in the
plant and financial contribution to the costs) as well as the extent of their
potential savings and demonstration effect on other users; (iv) the proposed
demonstration program should be focused on enterprises that are financially
viable, and for whom the costs of energy conservation actions would have a
pay-back period of three years maximum for the transport sector, four years
for the industrial sector, and six years for the hotels/buildings sector; (v)
operations should include an intensive and effective promotional program (to
include users' training) as a crucial element to maximize the impact of
demonstration cases; and (vi) participation of the existing local consulting
firms in the demonstration and training/promotional programs is essential for
an effective and expeditious strengthening of their capabilities. The
preliminary AME 1987/1989 activity plan would consist of the management of two
programs: (a) demonstration activities in three main energy-consuming sectors
to take place under the proposed Bank project; and (b) activities related to
the periodic obligatory audits, some of which would be carried out with
bilateral aid funding. The total costs of this three-year activity plan are
estimated at about $8 million, of which about $5 million in foreign exchange.
This includes AME technical staff costs and the equipment/materials to be
purchased under the Bank's project, but excludes studies and administrative
costs.
45.      AME has several funding sources, the most important being the
petroleum tax fund (Fonds des Hydrocarbures et de Maitrise de l'Energie,
[FHME]). In 1985 the Government allocated $3 million from FHME resources to
energy conservation activities, of which 20 percent, or $600,000, would cover
AME's annual administrative budget. An analysis of past and future
availability and utilization of FHME during the period 1980-89 indicates that
there would be sufficient resources to cover AME's 1987-1989 planned
activities. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sufficient
funds will be made available by the Government for AME to carry out its
activities under the proposed project.
Experience with Past Lending
46.      Starting in 1971, Bank lending to Tunisia for power and energy
consisted of six operations amounting to $110.4 million of which



- 16 -
$109.7 million to STEG. The first loan (No. 724-TUN of 1971 of $7.5 million)
helped finance El-Borma pipeline in the South, and a second loan of $12
million (No. 814-TUN of 1972) financed combustion turbines and the expansion
of the transmission and distribution systems. The Project Performance Audit
Reports (Nos. 1078 of March 12, 1976 and 2521 of May 24, 1979) for both
projects noted their catalytic effect, particularly on STEG's improved
financial performance and technical capability, and concluded that the
projects were successful (the audit rate of return, in both cases, was
substantially higher than appraisal estimates) and effective in making STEG a
well organized and efficient utility. No major problems were encountered
during project implementation. A third loan of $14.5 million (No. 1355-TUN of
1977) helped finance additional combustion turbines. The Bank approved in
1980 a $37 million loan for a second gas operation to build the Tunisian
on-shore section of the Algerian Transcontinental Pipeline and network
distribution lines in the North in support of the Government's then long-term
strategy of substituting gas for petroleum products. A fourth power loan of
$38.7 million (No. 2455-TUN of 1984) will help rehabilitate STEG's
transmission and distribution network in urban and rural areas. With the
objective of identifying conservation/ renewable energy projects for inclusion
in the Sixth Plan (1982-1986), a $700,000 energy component of a Technical
Assistance loan of $4.5 million (No. 2197-TUN of 1982) is financing energy
audits and efficiency studies to assess and test new and renewable energy
potential. This component suffered, until the recent creation of SME and AME,
implementation delays resulting essentially from the absence of an effective
project interlocutor within the Government. Under the management of SME, this
component and, in particular, the ongoing audits of six industrial enterprises
is now progressing satisfactorily, and is expected to be completed in early
1987. Follow-up feasibility studies, as required, and recommended viable
energy conservation actions in these six enterprises would be implemented
under the proposed project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
47.      The Bank has assisted the Government in developing an opera-
tional/institutional framework for energy conservation activities.   Under the
proposed project, the Bank will pursue its active advisory role to promote
better energy planning and management, and ensure consistency of these
policies with the broader issues in the industrial sector which are part of
the ongoing macro-economic dialogue between the Bank and Government. Finally,
the proposed project would assist the Government and energy users in their
drive for energy conservation, an effort which is made inevitable by the
projected energy balance of the country, in spite of the currently low
international oil prices.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
48.      At the request of the Government of Tunisia, the proposed project was
identified by a Bank mission in April 1985 and appraised in January 1986.
Negotiations were held in Washington from May 27 to May 30, 1986. The
Tunisian Delegation was led by Mr. Sadok Rabah, Director General of Energy of
the Ministry of Energy and Mining, and included representatives from the



- 17 -
Ministry of Planning and from AME. A Loan and Project Summary is given at the
beginning of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears as
Annex III.
Prolect Obiectives and Description
49.      The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) help AME
establish an institutional and policy framework to promote and monitor
effectively the implementation of energy conservation activities; (ii)
strengthen the local capabilities in energy auditing, and in implementing
energy conservation actions at the user's level; and (iii) finance specific
short-term demonstration actions for 28 selected users in three energy
intensive sectors. More specifically, the project includes the following:
(a) Strengthening local technical capabilities: technical assistance to
AME to design, follow up and control the implementation of energy
conservation and related promotional activities over the first two
years of its operation; training for AME staff in basic energy
auditing and conservation methods (including some training overseas
as needed) as well as for the participating users and selected
technicians (e.g., teaching staff at the local engineering schools);
and purchase for AME of basic working instrumentation, tools and
equipment (e.g., for measurement, control, basic training of users,
promotional campaign, etc.).
(b) Industrial sector demonstration component: energy audits,
feasibility studies and implementation of recommended short-term
energy-saving actions for 12 manufacturing enterprises selected for
demonstration (to include specific shop-floor technical
assistance/on-the-job training), and basic energy-saving tools and
equipment.
(c) Transport sector demonstration component: energy audits and
implementation of recommended actions for 8 transport companies and
large vehicle parks, to include driver training, technical assistance
in energy conservation management, and instrumentation for
fuel-efficient driving and preventive maintenance.
(d) Hotel/building demonstration component: energy audits and
implementation of recommended conservation actions, including
application of renewable energies (e.g., solar heating), technical
assistance for energy conservation management and related equipment
for 8 buildings (7 of which are hotels).
Project Implementation
50.      All project preparatory work has now been completed.  AME would be
responsible for overall project implementation and management, including
coordination and supervision of the work carried out by foreign consultants in
association with local consultants. It would: (i) select with participating
user-enterprises the consultants for the execution of energy audits,
feasibility studies and conservation actions, and help them with procurement
procedures; (ii) supervise and coordinate the work of consultants; (iii)
control the quality, costs and schedules of services and goods; (iv) organize



- 18 -
training and promotional campaigns under the project; (v) process disbursement
requests from the Bank loan for payment of incurred expenditures; maintain the
necessary project records; monitor progress, and prepare periodic status
reports for review by the Bank; and (vi) collect on behalf of the Government
the users' contributions to the costs of energy audits, equipment and
conservation actions, and deposit them every three months in an account
located in the Treasury Department according to Government rules and
procedures.  AME will receive expert assistance: (a) to help in the design and
supervision of the audit/conservation work at the users' level, and in
campaigns to promote the demonstration cases; and (b) to train their own staff
and participating technicians. Draft bidding documents and terms of reference
for these activities have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
51.      The energy audit/feasibility study, detailed planning and
implementation of recommended conservation measures for each demonstration
case will be carried out by teams of foreign consultants. As under the energy
audit component of the ongoing Technical Assistance loan, these consultants
will be encouraged to enter into long-term association with one or several
Tunisian consulting firm(s) of their choice to ensure proper transfer of
expertise, and strengthen local capabilities. In the hotels/buildings sector,
where local experience is already well developed, local consulting firms would
have meaningful inputs, at least for simple demonstration cases.
Selection Criteria
52.      The 28 demonstration cases have been selected by AME and Bank staff
in accordance with the following basic criteria: (i) they do not have serious
restructuring problems and have energy conservation needs representative of
their respective sectors; (ii) they are assessed to have good potential energy
savings, and are prepared to serve as demonstration cases for other users in
their sectors; (iii) they agree to designate an energy manager in the plant,
and contribute to the costs of the audits/studies and the recommended energy
saving actions as spelled out in para. 53 below; and (iv) the costs of energy
conservation actions would have a pay-back period of three years maximum for
the transport sector, four years maximum for the industry sector and six years
maximum for the hotels/buildings sector. The chosen 12 industrial enterprises
account together for some 16 percent of the total industrial sector energy
consumption in 1984; the transport and hotel establishments account for some
3 percent of their respective sectoral total consumption. The selected
demonstration cases in each of the three sectors are listed in Annex IV-4.
Adjustments in these lists (cases dropped and new ones added) as well as in
the preliminary cost estimates may be necessary during project implementation
depending on audit results; they will be made in agreement with AME, the
concerned users and the Bank in accordance with the above mentioned criteria.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that AME will provide to the Bank
for its approval the final list of selected participant enterprises not later
than December 31, 1986. About half of the 12 industrial demonstration cases
would be the enterprises being currently audited under the ongoing Technical
Assistance Project; for these cases, the proposed project would only provide
for feasibility studies and recommended operations.
Cost Recovery
53.      The users participating in the demonstration program are expected to



- 19 -
contribute at least 35 percent of the total costs of the energy audits and
studies, and 100 percent of the total expenditures incurred for implementing
recommended energy-saving actions. The users' commitment to serve as
demonstration cases and their payment of the incurred costs will be recorded
in a signed agreement with AME. The following terms and conditions for cost
recovery were agreed during negotiations: (a) with regard to audits,
feasibility studies, and training activities, 20 percent of the amount will be
due at the signature of the agreement with AME, 20 percent at the start of
activities, and the balance in a maximum of 3 installments, the last of which
is to be made at completion of the activities, with the total payment period
not exceeding three years from the start of each activity; and (b) for the
energy saving actions, payment will be made according to a fixed amortization
schedule, based on a period of seven years, including one year of grace, and
at the same interest rate fixed by the Central Bank of Tunisia (currently 6.5
percent per year) for credits financing renewable energy investments. Local
agents attending AME's technical training programs will also be charged a
participation fee. These arrangements were agreed with AME during
negotiations.
54.      The project would be implemented over a 40-month period, and
completed by December 31, 1989. By that time, it is expected that an adequate
number of technicians in both AME and consulting firms wn ' hiave been trained
to continue the basic energy conservation work without f       a specialists,
except for the cases involving more advanced retrofitting ..-/or enterprises
with complex process technology. For these, it is expected that AME would
draw upon the experience acquired through the design of this demonstration
project, and formulate more complex operations in close collaboration with
local consultant firms and users.
55.      The total manpower required to implement the project is estimated at
about 176 man-months of foreign and local consultants, and 137 man-months of
AME staff time over the 1987-1989 period. The project has been designed as
an integral part of the total overall assistance to be received by AME. It
would represent about 85 percent of the cost of the envisaged AME work program
for the same time period, and about 90 percent of the related total foreign
exchange costs. The balance of this program is to be financed through funds
from local sources (users) and foreign aid (e.g., France, the US and UNDP);
the continuation of on-going foreign aid programs is expected to be negotiated
by end-1986. Discussions with potential donors during project appraisal
confirm their intention to coordinate closely with the Bank project for
optimum use of resources and results.  During negotiations, it was agreed that
AME would provide a report to the Bank and the Government every six months on
the progress made in its work program, including the activities to be financed
by users and/or with other aid funds during 1987 through 1989, and introduce
changes, as required, in order to ensure consistency and maximize impact.
Agreement was also reached during negotiations that the Government and the
Bank will hold annual reviews on the institutional and administrative
framework and the Government's policies for energy conservation, taking into
account: (i) the changes needed in Government industrial and energy pricing
policies; (ii) the capability of local consultants to undertake energy
conservation operations without supervision; and (iii) the progress and future
prospects of energy savings in order to ensure the efficient implementation of
energy conservation in the country.



- 20 -
Proiect Cost and Financina Plan
56.      The total cost of the project is estimated at $6.25 million
equivalent, of which $4 million (64 percent) in foreign exchange. These
estimates do not include customs duties and import taxes following the
exemptions provided under existing regulations. Physical contingencies are
estimated at about 19 percent of base cost, to cover possible adjustments in
the list of demonstration cases, and the variations of costs that will result
from audit and feasibility studies. Price contingencies are based on domestic
and international inflation of 7 percent per annum for the 1986-1989 period.
The proposed Bank loan of $4 million would be made to the Government for 17
years including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate; it would cover 64 percent of the total financing requirement, and 100
percent of the foreign exchange costs of the project. The Government would
cover all project-related local costs.
Procurement
57.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Method (US$ million)
LIB/IS a/ Other b/ LCB c/ Total Cost
Consulting/Engineering Services        --        1.69      0.63       2.32
=  (1.69)       ()      (1.69)
Equipment & Materials                 2.31        --       1.62       3.93
(2.31)                         (2.31)
Total                            2.31       1.69      2.25       6.25
(2.31)    (1.69)       (-)     (4.00)
a/ Bank's guidelines for limited international bidding and international
shopping.
b/ Bank's guidelines for use of consultants.
c/ Local competitive bidding.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
56.    As all goods to be acquired under the project will be in small
quantities (standard instrumentation materials and simple energy-saving
equipment), their procurement would be through the Bank's procedures for
limited international bidding (LIB) on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids from at least 3 suppliers eligible under the Bank's
guidelines, and international shopping if the items involved cost less
than $25,000, on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least 3 suppliers. In the case of LIB, the Bank will have prior
reviews of procurement decisions. To the extent possible, identical or
similar items will be grouped together for purposes of bidding and
procurement. Contracts for consulting and engineering services would be
procured according to Bank guidelines on the use of consultants. For
local cost items (not financed under the Bank loan), local competitive
bidding procedures would be followed.



- 21 -
Disbursement
59.    The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 100 percent
of foreign exchange costs of equipment/materials, and (b) 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs for consulting, engineering, and training
services. Although the loan disbursement profile for Tunisia is 9 years,
the small loan size and project implementation arrangements justify a
disbursement period of 46 months. All disbursements will be made under
quarterly statements of expenditures (SOE) to be prepared by AME after
verification of relevant documentation; these records would be kept by AME
for subsequent review by the Bank. A Special Account to assist AME in
making timely payments would be opened at the Central Bank with an initial
deposit of $400,000. To assist an early start, retroactive financing of
up to $300,000 is recommended to cover expenditures incurred after June
30, 1986. The Closing Date of the loan would be June 30, 1990.
60.    The Government would make available the proceeds of the Bank loan
to AME. The latter would be authorized to withdraw funds to pay foreign
consultants and equipment suppliers for the costs of services and goods
provided to project participants.
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
61.    Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, AME would submit
to the Bank financial statements and reports and a report on the Special
Account, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. AME
would also maintain separate project accounts; an audit of these accounts
(including SOEs) would be included in the audit of its financial
statements. It would maintain records to monitor progress in project
implementation, and submit status reports in a form acceptable to the Bank
within 60 days after the end of each semester. Within six months after
the Closing Date, it would submit a project completion report reviewing
problems and achievements under the different project components, and
assessing the demonstration impact and experience gained from the project.
Benefits and Risks
62.    Unlike past ineffective efforts in energy conservation in the
country, this project would be a coordinated, comprehensive action program
covering complete energy conservation cases from audit to implementation
in three major energy-consuming sectors. While the viability of the
energy-saving actions recommended for each demonstration case will be
assessed by feasibility studies prior to implementation and investment
decisions, the overall viability of the demonstration program can be
analyzed based on preliminary costs and savings estimated from specific
plant visits by energy conservation specialists during project appraisal.
The short-term expenditures envisaged for participating users (e.g.,
housekeeping measures and simple retrofitting) are expected to yield some
14,000-27,000 toe per year of direct/primary savings (i.e. by the
participating users only), representing on average about 8 percent of
their total 1984 energy consumption. At a price of $100 per toe of fuel
oil (or $15 per barrel of crude oil), these estimated primary savings are
valued in the range of $1.4-2.7 million per year. If the expected
demonstration or secondary effects on other users in the same sectors are



- 22 -
included, a conservative estimate of total savings under the project would
be in the range of $2.8-4.1 million per year. The participating
enterprises may expect a pay-back period averaging 3.3 years. If the
secondary demonstration effects on other energy consumers and the cost of
the AME component are also included in this analysis, the pay-back period
for the total project as a whole would average 2.2 years. As seen in the
following table, the estimated pay-back results remain within acceptable
ranges in spite of large variations in crude oil prices.
Tunisia - Sensitivity Analyses of Pay-back Estimates
Number of Pay-back Years for:
Average Participating         Total Project
Enterprises                 Total
At Crude Oil Price of:            Direct Savings Only             Savings a/
$20/barrel                             2.5                      1.7
$18/barrel                             2.8                      1.9
$15/barrel                             3.3                      2.2
$13/barrel                             3.6                      2.6
a/ Including potential savings expected from the demonstration or secondary ef-
fects that participating users would have on other users in the same sectors.
63.    The proposed project would have a long-term beneficial impact on
Tunisia's environment; it jould contribute to the rationalization of energy
use, conservation of energy, and the preservation of the country's natural
resources. The project is expected to have a strong institutional impact on
two fronts. One, it would provide training in energy audit and conservation
for the technical staff not only of the participating enterprises, but also
and more importantly, o tne local consulting firms and other agents (e.g.,
teaching staff of local eaigineering schools). It is thus expected that by the
time the project is completed, the local capabilities for energy audit and
conservation operations wonlld be considerably strengthened so as to reduce
Tunisia's reliance on expatriates for future energy conservation work. Two,
the design of the project, formulated as a demonstration program, could be
subsequently adjusted by AME for local and/or bilateral-multilateral financing
in the future and used as a model for the design and implementation, through
the acquired local expertise, of more complex energy efficiency measures
(e.g., advanced retrofittings and conservation actions with more complex
process technology).
64.    The technical, financial and commercial risks associated with the
project are minimal: the energy conservation measures to be implemented would
be based on proven technologies and practices, and the financing requirements
are modest compared to expected future returns. The principal risk facing the
project relates to the fact that the expected demonstration or secondary
effects on the other users in the selected sectors may be slow in
materializing due to the promotional difficulties common to demonstration
undertakings. This risk is reduced through the special technical assistance
given to AME for promotion and extension activities under the project, and
through the system of obligatory periodic audits being set up now in the
country according to the Energy Conservation Law.



- 23 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
65. I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 6, 1986



ANNEX I
-24-                                              Page 1 of 7
TU111A                 - maCta tN-IMCATO   DTA 63T
MOST                     (0T SCUMIT I?iHATR) lb
UNC!             N 103  ICU"S           NlIoLE ThtU
awwth      19701k UgrIsL/b    H. ARICA S 41A CAT       LEA. AERICA  CAR
AMA (TOs.ID SQ. U1)
ToTAL                              163.6      163.6       163.6
ACAICULTRAL                         ".3        70.3        81.4
ClP PUR AOfA                            ..         ..       2a90.0            1134.9                    1875.9
mscw manzes rM cwml
(KILOGRAM Or OIL StQIVAL9M?)       119.0      230.0       496.0             623.9                    993.6
FOWAIII      AN II DA SALt IC
POUL^ATuON,MI0D-YEA  (ThOUmANDs)   4221.0    3127.0      6866.0
UIMAX POPIATION (2 0f TOTAL)        36.0       43.5        33.6              49.0                     67.7
POULATION ROJECTIONS
FPOPULATION S. TllU 2000 CMILL)                          10.0
STATIONRY PoPUlaTIo  ('(ILL)                             19.0
FOIULATION A NNNT(                                        1.9
POPULATIZ DENSI??
*   PER SQ.  .                        25.6        31.3       42.1               37.5                     46.0
PE  SQ. H1. AGRS. LAD             61.4       72.9        52.4             470.1                     91.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUuR    )
0-14 IRS                         43.3       46.2        40.3              43.3                      33.3
15-64 YS                         32.4        49.9        53.7              51.0                     57.1
65 AND ABoE                         .1        3.7         3.6               3.3                      4.2
POPULAlION CRATI RATE (2)
TOTAL                              L.6 IC     1.9 /c      2.3               2.6                      2.4
233AM                              3.2        3.8         4.0               4.4                      3.6
COE BIRTN RATE (PER 3OUS3          43.9       40.6        32.6              40.0                      30.9
CRUDE DEATL RATE (PER THGM)         21.0       14.6         9.1              11.5                       8.0
GOSS EC7RODUXTION PATE              3.5         3.2         2.4               2.8                      2.0
fAmILY PLANING
accuras. ANNUAL (TXO0)             .         29.2       180.9 Id
USERS    OF MARRIED    N)          ..         ..         41.0              21.4                     43.3
FoMa aD mNmou
nSiE  or FWm PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      97.0        s6.0       123.0              95.1                    109.6
PM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOP.S (E OF gEQOICEHTS)         93.0       96.0       111.0             168.2                     113.2
PRoTENs CGwAs PER DAY)           59.0        60.0        74.0              77.8                     69..
OF MICH ANIML AND PULSE          13.0       14.0        23.0 I7           17.6                     34.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         36.1       23.9         6.0              12.8                      4.6
CRALTE
LIFE UXPECr. AT SITII (TYEARSM)    6.1         34.2        61.5              57.8                     64.8
rNFwT MOTr. RAZE (PM  T1W)        157.5       131.0        33.0              96.3                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (tU?)
TOTAL                             ..         49.0       .70.0              67.2                     65.3
uR                                ..         92.0        91.0              93.4                     76.5
RURAL                         *              17.0        46.0              45.8                     44.2
ACCESS TO EXC2EA DISPOSAL
(E OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              -         62.0        56.0 if           45.9                     56.3
URXAN                                       LOO.0        42.0              63.0                     73.4
RURAL                              .         34.0                          28.6                     25.5
POPUATZON PCR MSICAS             10030.0     5930.0      3690.0 If         4331.0                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             ..        730.0       30.O 72         1845.0                    6o8.2
POP. PE HOSPrTAL BED
TOTAL                           410.0       410.0       460.0 /d          621.3                    362.0
URBAN                           230.0       310.0       350.07F           545.0                    -22.0
RURAL                           L40e.Oj   1270.0       1230.0            2511.3                   2716.7
ARIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL KD          ..         24.1        25.0              25.7                     27.5
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..5.1 7s                .                  ..
Toys                               ..         3.1 7i-      ....
URBAN                             ..          5.1 7
AVERAGZ so. Of PERSONS/ROOt
TOTAL                             ..           . 2/I
URBAN                                         2.7 7r
RURAL                             ..          3.6 7
PERCENTAGE OF DNELLINGS WITl ECT.
TorAL                             ..         2&.0 I       .
URIWIA                            ..          ..          .                  ..
URAOL                              ..         ..
_ .I



ANNEX I
-25-                                          Page2 of 7
TUSlUZA                - UOCiLL INDICATORS DATA SlEr?S
TUNISIA                             RE NCE GROUPS (WEIGhTED AVZRAGES) 
4I0ST                   0105? MCa.n  CSTDIATE) tb
RECEIW           MIDDLIC INCOE          MIDDLE NUO
196o&!     197At  zSTIIMTELk    Y. AICA, & MID EAsT       LAT. AWEICA 4CA
ADJUSTED ENR0LUEIr RATIS
PEIMARTi  TOTAL                  66.0       101.0      111.0              69.8                    106.7
AAI                   S8.0       121.0       123.0             103.7                   108.5
FEMAl                 43.0        60.0        95.0              75.2                    104.6
SCHONDARTs TOTAL                 12.0       :3.0        32.0              42.9                     44.2
MALE                   19.0       33.0       39.0               50.9                    42.7
EMALE                   5.0       13.0        25.0              34.6                    44.9
VOCATIONAL (Z O1 SEC*DAAT)        23.5        11.1       23.6              10.0                     13.3
PULPUMTAC RATIO
PRUMAT                           61.0       47.0        36.0              29.7                     29.9
SO#IDAR                          16.0       28.0        19.0              16.6                     16.7
PASSEG   CAMS/THOUSANU 11          10.5       13.0         ..               17.8                     46.0
AtDIO RMCZIVZRSITSOUSASD POP       40.3       75.7       164.0             175.9                    328.3
TV RacEIRs/TOUAD Pro                0.1        14.0       Si.:              51.2                    112.4
NwS&A=  (-MLY aEERL
IUTREST) CIRCUIATION
M  THOUSAND POPUATION             18.6        15.9       40.5              37.2                     SI.1
CXIIA ANAL ATTE NCEICkPrTA          1.6        ..          1.5               2.6                      2.4
L ,0
TOTL UBOR FORE CTllOUS)          1138.0      1215.0     1770.0
PDWZ (PERCENT)                    6.0        7.7         8.6              11.0                     23.6
AGIUTURE (PERCt NT)              56.0       50.0        35.0A             4L4                      31.4
INDUSTRY (PEUCET)                16.0       21.0        32.0              27.9                     24.3
PARTICPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            27.0        23.7       25.7              26.2                     33.5
MALS                             50.2        44.2       46.4              46.2                     51.3
:ZMALZ                            3.3        3.6         4.4               5.8                     15.9
ECOOMI DCPENDENCE RATIO             L.8        2.1         1.7               L.8                      1.3
FERW  or PRIVATE xNcomc
RECEIVED By
:IGET 520  HOUSEHOLDS             ..
MIGMZST 20 or WOUSEHOLDS          ..
LOBES? 202 sr HWOSHODS            ..
LUlWES 4021 Q  OUSEHLDS           ..
SXAD ABSOLUTE POVERY INCOME
LVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        204.0             226.3                    208.3
RURAL                             .          ..         97.0 7           134.0                    185.3
ESTIMATED REAMTIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS MP CAPITA)
.                                            .        193.0 /e          43.5                     519.8
RURAL                             ..         ..        193. 07           326.0                    359.7
ESTIXATED POP. BELOWI ASOLUU
POVEy INCOM  LEEL (Z)
lURAN                             .          ..         20.0 /a
RURAL                             .          ..         15.0O             29.0
.M1 AVAILABL
MrT APPLICABU
OT T r S
-Th group avras for each indicator are population-weighted aithuetlc mw..  Covere of countries
amg the indicators depends on avwelabiUty of data and Is not uniforr.
lb  Unlass otherviso noted. 'Mats for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 nd 1961; "Dta for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moat Recent EarLuate" betweon 1981 end 1983.
/c  DUe to e    cation. populaton growth rate to loer than rate of natural Laereos; /d 1979; /a  1977;
/f 1980; LL 1962; Ih 1976; /1 1966.
JUNE, 1985



- 26 -                                                ANNEX  I
Page73of 7
DEFINmOIS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noes Although te data medman from osurces gemllyjuded the most authortative and reliable. it shou also be nuted that they may not be miernatnlly
cmaable eause o the lack of stndardised definon and concpts used by differemn counties in collcting the data. The dams are nonetheles useful t
dribe ordes or magnitude. indit tred, and chancre cenain major diffenc between countrin.
The rrne group are (1) the -me couat group of the suject country and 12) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country  I
group f the ubj coury (eept for 'High Income Oil Exprter goup where -MMdl Income Nortb Africa and Middle East" as choen beause orirOnger
socoaulturaallnitis. l Iathe refeence gup dta the averages m popula!on weighted arithmetic meas. for each indicator and shown only when maorty
oflhe counrine in a gprup bs data re that i tor. since the coverae fcountries among ibe indicators dpnds on the avai bility of dot and is not unrifrm.
caution mat be eed in reisting average or one indicator to another. The averaps are only useful in cosnpenng the value of one indcator at a time among
the cauny and reliance groupL
AREA (thousand sq.knL)                                        CrIdr Aith Rae (per rhomad)-Number of live births in the year
eerdfTotal surfacere-  ompnsing land are and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population: 19e0. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cmd, Deat Rare (per themsd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricsbwul-Estimate of agricultural area usd temporarily or   per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
penentdy for crops. pastures, market and kitcien grdens or to  Grow Repodwcio  Rae-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her normal reproductive period if shc experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calcultecd by same conversion method as World
BankAdas(1981-83 bsi); 1983 data.FM  be-oAccps,l Ami rknod-A_nual num-
Rank Ada (198143 basis); 1983 data.          ~ber of acceptoms of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planting program.
consumption of commercial prnmary energy (coal and lignite.   FaxO Pfidq-es (pece  of uWed mmu)-The percen-
petoleum. naturl gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothemal ec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
ttiaty) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whowse husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contrqeptive usage is measured for other age
POPUlLATION AND VfTAL STATISCS                                groups.
Toa ftp.kim. Mid-1Yew (dauaD-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.        FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
t*mhx of fbd Prodtelow Per Capita (1969-71 - 1Nj-Index of per
puban  dftpleip .  (pefinit of  urban)-Ratis of urafn to total  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
populatko; different definitions of urban areas may affect    a excudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countrie; 3960. 1970. and 3983 data.    idude pimary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of supr)
hpulatioPnjecdon                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pop.a-wn in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded) they comprise cereals, root crops. puses. oil seeds.
made for each economy sparatey. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarane and sugar beets. livock. and
total population by agc and sex fertility rates. mortalty rates. and  livestock products. Aggegate production of each country is based
inteaional migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.           hr Cdita Supy ofCai (percet ofrequirenuus)-comput-
Srawoary populdion-Is one in which age- and sx-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replaement level  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In sucb a population. the birth rate is    cxclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death raze, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
cnaunt. and the growth rate is zcro. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteistics of  and health considering environmental temperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replcement level.                                     waste t household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpaution Momauuaanls the tendency for population growth to   her Capq  Supply of Proein (rAss per dy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achie4ed that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momcntum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein pU
a ratio of the ultimnate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protcin. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replce  should be animal protein. These standards,are lower than those of
me-t kvd from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-A          Deav*ry                                           averag for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJtn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
utre) of toul are; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                 hr Capita hroes Sppmly Frm Ania and Poke-Protein supply
Per sqkcm. agracdltral land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Popuaim Age Stateos (pereut-Children (0-14 years). work-      Chl (ages 1-4) Deh Rtoe (per thonsauad-N umber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 yea). and retired (65 yeas and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years PU thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populato Growth Rat (perenar)-toma-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALIH
Ptp.iAi. Growh Rae (percean)-mhae-Annual growth rates         Lie Erpetany at Birth (yers)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aNl people



- 27-                                             ANNEX  I
-    Page4 of 7
at he time of of its birth were to tay the same throughout its life;  rpWi-feacrher Ratio- primarr. anul .sercdurir-Total 'itudent% en.
1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided b, numbers .f
/Iwt Mart  atae (per * auusad)-Number or infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of ag per thousand live births in a given
year; 19601,970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTIONI
Ace= so Soft  Wtr (percen of puEW&Q-tota. rhm, 1nd           Passsnge Can rper thMswand apulntoa)-Passenver curs cs.m.
ral-Number of people (total urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than ighLt persons: excludes ambul.
access to safe water supply (nludes treated surface waters or  ances hearses and military vehicles.
untred but unconmmated water suh a that from protted          ReAdn eceauw  (per thouseudpapulau)-All types of recei%ers
boreboles springs and santary wde) as percentaes of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tive populations In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loted not more tban 2O mneten from a house may be conidered   reistratin o radio sets was in effect: daa fr recen yea  ma
as being within reasonable  cms of that house. In rural       not be cmnp rable since most countries abotshed licensingm
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  T becomPr   sincmost conTr  a ecei sing.
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionte part of the day  TV Rceie (r tha  adepdeu-TV receivers ror broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                          to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Ac    to Ex  4a DE41esa         em              t             receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
aid ruraL-Number of people (totaL urbak. and rural) served byfc.
exreta disposal as prcentages of their respective populations     w         Clraarn (per thousandpopidaton -Shows the aver-
Excreta dposal may include the collection mnd disposal with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gcneral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily- if it appears at least four times a week.
PopulAtain per Physacn-Ibpulation divided by number of prac-  Ciaema Aimarl Anenac per Capita per Yow-Based on the
tsing physicians qualified from a  edical school at university evel.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
A.puaemm per Nrsu Pano-Population divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pratic;ng male and female graduate nures. assistant nurses.    ABOR FORCE
prical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.
Pb.fiduu pw Hhpi  Bi-easA -                                   Total Labor Far  (thowsandsj-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unnmployed but excluding housewives.
baspitol beds aviablein publieand private. general and s      students etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals anv rebabiateion centpl   Ho pitate   are estage iaduents  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
prmnedy staFed by at least orie physician. Establishments prov-  Feml (pceatl-Femrnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. indude health and medical ceters not permanently staffed  Ajricukwe (perentJ-Labor force in rarming. forestry. hunting
by a physiian (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. I170 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         nasry (percent )-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adnrdsuim per HlesaVel Ai-Total number of admnissions to or   facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
disuharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Asveidodiou Raoe (percearP-tol. mak anffemao-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rtes are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Avg Seire ef Houehl (pffsis per AauseoldD-ral.  w,            as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
aurw&L-A bhousehold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure orthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purpoes  long time tend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Avra  Number of feus per Reami-,owL when, ad rwl-             Econenuc Dependency Read-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in aU urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Porertae oj D-ellas -irh Ekectidt-tal. whn, end  ual-        Percta  of Torta Disposabk 1cme (both i cash and kindJ-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in living quarers as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rual dwellings respectively,        hold incom.c
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adted Exioheet Rados                                          The following estimates are ven approximate measures of poverty
Primwy scxol - toral. mak and fenae-Gross total. male and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femal cnrollment of al ages at the primary evel as percentages of  Estiraed Absoute b e wrty 1ncme Level ( CS per capta-arban
respective primary school-age populations. Whie many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. Fbr some countries with universal  E tiated Relatie PovAert Income Lvel (,'SS per capita)-uhrn
education gross enroliment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poveny income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  averag: per capita personal income of the countn. Urban level is
agec                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment Ibr higher cost of
Secondary school - fonI, mak waudfemale-Computed as above:    living in u-ban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Prpuiat  Bew Absolute Poery Iacome Level (per-
mary instruno  provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-whn end rur   l- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocatoal Fnolmeii fpercent of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analvsis and Data Di,ision
tions include technicaL industrial. or other progamms which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



-28-                                     AENE I
-age 5 of 7
IUTA - Sac DO1
Audmi Qwt kms
AMME                                   (a im  prime)
(mhis  ml                        kacul                    FqZ.    -w-..
diator               at cwze pdou
194A        1979  i91   j9D    19    1933  1911         1965    1"6    i99
NErMU ACDWS
aumdmaic pmodct1               7,9465       6.6   7.4    5.5   0.1   4.9   5.5        4.5     2.1   3.6
Agricuam                      1059.2     -4.8   9.9   6.5  -10.3   2.5  13.3    15.0    -3.8   2.5
JAhaty                       2.41LS     10.6   9.0   6.8   0.5   7.3   3.2         1.1     2.6   3.6
Servic                       3,411.8      8.4   7.7    6.6   2.4   3.9   5.0        4.3      3.9   3.8
02.apti;a                      6,387.4      4.0   12.7   7.4   3.4   6.2  4.8         3.3     1.9   3.0
Gos i     _mt                  2,501.7      6.3   0.9   15.1   1.5  -4.3  10.8   -12.4    -7.4   3.0
own  of pd. adE Ws             2,720.7     21.5   0.0   3.5   8.9   1.4  2.4          3.0     5.8   4.1
hapott of goods NWS            3,6583      15.1   4.5   13.0   0.9  -1.8   5.2   -10.0    -1.3   2.3
a- antiol p:e                  8,01L.6      6.9   7.9   5.8   0.2   4.6  5.2          3.5      2.2   3.7
ccm  mutil   y                 1,624.2     15.2  -4.7    0.7  -10.1  -1.3   6.7       4.3     34    6.2
I dalator (1960 - 100)                     8L6  IOL.0  111   12.1  139.9 19.4   156.9
ewhms  mct                                2      Z.69  L025  1.693  1.473 1.287    L198
Sm. of   at muC pni a      ) W                      I=& Soa pmabh mtow
(at omt 25iM) 21                                 (at c        m cam)
1971    1976    1961    1963    19865      991   1971-76      1976-61      981-66      1966-91
Cons domestic pat /1 100.0   100.0   100         100.0   1000    100        7.1         6.1         3.8          3.6
Ahiaatumm            I.4     17.8    13.7    12.4    14.4    L32        6.3         1.6          5.0          2.5
1niatz              20.5    25.2    32.0    30.2    29.1    31.2    8.6             8.9          3.1          3.8
servian             47.1    44.0    41.8    44.0    43.4    43.1    7.1             6.5          4.0          3.8
Omaqtimi                80.5    77.3    76.1    80.2    80.8    764         L9          7.4         4.1          3.4
Q*. in _aamt            21.5    30D7     32.3    28.8    24.9    23.1    5.9            6.6        -2.2          3.1
pots  of Ssd S    24.1    29.1    41.4    35A             32.9     3i.3    7.1         8LS          1.4          2.7
lqOrt of apods    ' WS   26.1    37.0    49.8    44.4    3L6       35.9   IL10. 8                  -1.6          2.0
*ko. nmutimul product    99.6    98.7   100.8   10.2    99.7    99.5    7.0             6.6         3.5          3.6
Net ft                  -OA     -1.3      0.8      1.2    -0.3    -0.5    8.5          0.3        -24.2        -16.4
*mxu zutiil .vizqp      19.1    21.4    24.6    21.0    16.9    2L1    -2.3            4.2          1.3          4.3
A Z of  P
1976    1961    1933    1984
FUN=LI FW                                                              --
rzt   -                                          26.8    29.3    31.3    32.6
aOzzut syeue                                     19.9    21.5    23.1    24.7
Saipla. (+) or deficit (-)                        6.9      7.8     8.1      7.9
cqal ePalicm                                    11.8    15.3    15.2    L6.5
Fomign finaEiz                                    1.0      1.0      1.7     2.3
1971-76     197641       19B146       1986-91
GNP per cpiits pouch ram (1)                      5.0          3.6         2.9          1.9
mm                                               2.7          5.2          89           6.5
Mazia1 awi. rete                                 -0.0          0.1         0.0          0.3
bport elrticity                                  1.6          1.8         -0.4          0.6
(*) WorM Be* Atla htkdo.
/1 CP at arlet prices smo coWca  at fator    .
Pojected yam in autat prces.
DM 1& H-C
April 19B6
1061S2



A O I
(at M    Pime
jt                                  tz~~~~~~~~~~t VD hine_
odim Ul                             AEom                         FMI.        pgjAd
at aC        prim
Xi_dicmtw                   14               1979   190D  191   1982   1983   1'f          195       1996   199
SO=  of noodle              1.S.0             18.0   0.4    4.3   4.9    3.8    0.7          0.1        5.8    3.5
a cml                       796.9           22.9    2.2  -7.3  -0.9    0.6   -1.7         -1.0       -66  -2.0
Jr1aablm                     92.7            11.4  -31.1   83.5  -3L3  -1A    5L5         -14.1       9.9    4.0
Otlur pdin                  102.7            8.3  -18.2   12.4  -13.S   27.9  -0.9         13.0      L30   15.5
_m_bg I                      08.             13.3   2.5      3     1.S    6.4  -1.4         LO       165    6.6
Iqst of ada                 3.232A4           15.9   4.5   11.7  -0.9  -29    5.4          -12.9       -L1    2.0
oad                         467.3           17.4  -7.0   2L1   -7.7   2.7    2.6         -22.2       -9.9    4.0
372.0           62.1    7.9  -87  46.9    3.0    7.3           4.4       9.4  -3.4
latin   me. good.           989.8           20.2   11.0    3.8   124   -4.6    7.9         5.8       IQ1    3.4
C4Li1 oad.                  839.3           -9.6  -2.2  40.9   15.S  -19.5    9.8         24.8       4.9    0.3
n-amu                       563.9            84    6.3    6.6    6.1   10.8  -3.6        -111       -13.7    2.8
Pm x
-voct prie iadm                              74.3   D0.0   91.3   87.0   78.7   75.7      73.1       61.0   946
pm:t pri;; i_d                              82.1  100.0  93.4   845   80.0   78.7         75.0       74.2  10.7
T-  o af ct   i0 .6  100.0  105.2  lDL.0  9L4   96.1                                      97.4       82.2   90.3
mosition of Mhsdia  1e (z))                             limt s9m  Bra" mate (Z)
(at cwmat imi m                                      (at oomrmas pricm)
1971   1976   181           l 193   1 1991            1971-76   1976-1   1981-66   196-91
Dipmt.of at  a100  IOD.0  1O  10    100.0  100.0                                         5.0      L8.1       0.5       L5
aciam                        26.9   42.3   53.3  44.7   21.3   114                    3.4       7.4     -5.0    -13.1
grwltm                       I2.6    4.5    3.1   4.4    6.3    4.4                    4.4       2.4     -0.5       4.0
Odar pmz                     21.3   1LI    4.4   4.8    7.4   11.3                     2.9       0.5     L8        14.9
-iudMbv   IL                 39.2   42.1   39.2  46.1   65.0   72.9                    9.2      11.1       5.2      6.5
qiotas of good.                 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1o  100.0                     14.2     10.4      -2.6       1.6
Food                         19.6   123   1L4   13.9  12.9   13.2                     -1.9      11.6     -3.3       4.0
Pel1am                        3.6   ILl   19.9   11.1    7.2    6.6                   30.5      17.6      4.2      --55
T;nt diate pod               30.1   2B.8   28.1   29.9  40.0   41.5                   L2.I      10.2      2.6       3.4
Witelraod                    27.7   31.9   25.4  25.5   21.6   19.1                   18.0      4.9      -7.4       0.1
Ota                          19.0   15.8   15.4   19.5  1L3   19.6                    12.1      11.4     -2.5       3.2
9uz of 2mad with         Sam of Trle with            Sre of frab with         Sho  Of frae with
IzAmtuial Qauirie (      DeXim   a maadaa (Z)           oil am;ter (2)         Ut)ully Plald Caines (2)
1970 1975 1960 1994      1970 1975 1989  1W.         1970 1975 1930 194       1970 1975 190 1964
DUrDl (IF Th
EXqOz                70.8 60.1 6L87 76.9       4.9 21.7 25.4 14.5         119  11.1  4.8  7.7       9.4  6.1  0.4  0.9
1ozes               85.9 79.5 81.8 80.7        7.1 10.9  7.7 11.8         0.7  6.3  7.5  3.6        6.3  3.1  3.0  3.9
1/ I=IZuids food paoe.gi., jiapspt  deriwties, chunical, tetile,  ;cliicu ad delstical inhuatia.
D61S/3                                                                                                            165  ?I-c
A4pil 1996



AM  I
-30 -~7@ 
Tm151A - NAMo  t VAUU MWL CD1L   maw
(ELumi UN6 at aum pdash
1916    1979    19     1981    19        199*191   1
&ALUM OF XIM
Nit baline of  _                        4* 7  -36.0  -472L6  -7.3  -790.8  -637.2    481.O  -37.8  -561.3  -m.0
lpot. of      & uerice               1,479.5 3.137.5 3,9123 3,946.5 3,477.9  3,309.5   3,167 300 2,990.  4,966
Iita of am& & w                      1,82  493.5 4,384.9 4.61L8 4,2617   3,7   4,2.7  3,7.7 3,557.1 5,519.2
tkt -uA                                  -0.5    10.3   58.5   11.2   23A         11.9       9.0    10.7   12.1   16.9
Wirnt amot balic                       -417.2  -345.6  -414.1  -64.0  -767.4   -2.2    475.0  -527.1   59.2  -516.1
DKact privat izm.at                     102L6    50.9  236.0   367.2   4O22    223.86      26.0   131.   182.4   136.2
Inta                                     53.2    50.7   41.5    20.3    19.0    25.3        28,6   24.0   26.0    12.0
ILT t*    (M)                           2s.6   373.7   215    275.4   315.0    37L.0    328.   324.0   30.3  403.0
Official                               127.4   14   1MS   148.5   183.2    29.0          36.0  409.0  Iff.0   397.0
p    e                                IX.1312   185.3   88.5  126.9   131.8    123.0     40.0   45.0   146.3    6.0
Odar cqpil                               35.9   -5.7    13U6   -7B.6  -582        15.9    163.0    1.9      0.0    0.0
a m     in mii     , li_pL   izacinc u)  38.7  -0      -64.9   92.3  -27.1    14.7    149.7   45.7    0.3  -34.9
hatmnci1 mai                            273.0   357.9  42Z.9   515.2   542.3    527.6    377.9   332      331.9  521.2
1uaizwa//oxa                              1.8    1.2     1.2    1.3      LS       1.6      Li      1.1    1.1    1.1
1976    1979    191D    191      1982    g193    1M
GO  DXSl9OU
Official                                    53.2    50.7    41.5   20.3    19.0    25.4         25.8
Gm= did_ama of  Z loa.                     250.8   637.8   559.1  607.2   629.0   741.8    821.6
cowmiau1                                   109.3   140.9   IO64   255    A6.1    165.7   301.4
Bilateral                              I100    140.0   198.4  239.5   230.0   142.7   2880
Ink                                      a9       0.2      L.0     1       1.0      -        -
OthurmAtilut;al                          0.0      L.7      7.9    6.0    16.2    23.0    13A
NOWCOAiO=a                                 141.5   496.9   352.7  361.7    31L9    576.1   520.1
Pdiwe                                   71.6    378.3   223.5  224.4   255.0   366.0   258.0
Official ci   credita                    9.9    49.6      555    35.4    21.4    87.6   153
I=                                      25.3    55.4    5LI    69.4    81.8    89.6    8S.0
Othar wltilatml                         30.2    13.7    22.6   3L5        21.7    32.9    15.8
EUL IEBT
Debt  tutamhig aDiaburd                 1,18L6  3,023.5  3,227.4 3,21.9  3,480.5  3,65.7  4.020.5
Official                               976.2  1,854.7  2,038.0 2,149.1  2,3180  2,478.0  2,815.5
I360                                 127.8   232.0   269.0  319.6   375.5   434.2    480.9
M&                                    64.1    67.3    67.9   67.5    67.8    a7.0         66.2
otler                                 784.3  1,554.7  1,701.  1,762.0  1,9W.7  1,976.8  2.298.4
privae                                 206.4  1.166.8  1,189b 1,131.8  1,12.5  1,180.7  1,175.0
Lksabirai debt                         1,124.8  1,819.8  1,92.6 2,07  1.900.7  2,065.9  1,96LO
DEIr sEaM
Toral debt sevice paywa                   96.5   315.4   430.4   517.0   493.3    560.2   681.7
lXcesc                                  36.9   162.5    2L5.9  2D4.7    194.8    189.8   221.9
Pteta     7es xpru                         6.7    10.1    ILO    1.1    13.9    169           2L7
PayersanZGM                1.9                      3.6     4.2    5.3       5.1      6.1      7.7
Aveze intetest cae of ne Loans (Z)         5.5      7.2     6.8    8.1       7.6      8.2      9.5
Official                                 4.3      5.6      5.9    6.9      7.1       -        -
Priwte                                   7.9      9.8    10.5    17        9.4       -        -
A ge _qtricy of      l     (yars)         16.3    15.6    17.    15.6    17.5        13.9     U.8
Official                                20.4    19.4    19.4   18.2    20.2          -        -
Private                                  1.6      9.2      9.2    5.8    10.2        -        -
m Z of Dbt Qlid
at Eid of e't Reeant
yw (1964)
OEffr snuiEN
iattwriy stltu  of debt outstami r   I J
ADrtimtion due within 5 years                               41.2
.mrtizatin due wiebin 10 years                               67.7
Interest stnture of debt autstazsira  :)
Iweesut dbe itbin first yer                                  4.1
Ij  Amabers my wt add up due to roumdisg.
aEMf CP I-C
1061S/4                                                                                                  April 1986



-~~~~~~~~~AN 31
EPg 1 of 2
TH SFa1US OF  AIC B  ( MM UOAnS 1N 1TSIA
A. S!Amr w hm  LANs AID mI  a    m (As of at   ch 31. 1986)
LEi $ HiLo
rLoar                                                                                         hmt (Li
Grodi                                                                                       Coacullaticn)
NtIie     YBa          Bhrze Buk                     __B UBik                                   IM    UkxisbLrsed
Fory-faur IX. aid Cadits Rilly DiabxuAd                                              468.94    75.15
1601      1978       Rpxublic of buiaia          ainel PaIld (Thitw aily)             32.00               5.87
1675      1979      Retblic of banisiA           Scud Utbat Sewiuge                   26.50               7.09
1705      1979      Repblic of Umisi             Seqxd 1kb.D   wql                    15.00               2.77
1746      1979       Rptblic of lxsia           Sed Finri                            28.50              12.95
1796      1960       Bexjblic of fDsisi           S9atbu  ITrigation                  25.00              11.01
1797      1960      Office di. Pgrta N.tiomm    Trd Port                              42.50               9.98
W.4       iO         Sqpiblic of bdisia           Eth 1Liguayr                        36.50              16A43
1864      1930      SociAPl imisieae de
I'Mectrii; et     Gm Suz     5 d Nauul Gas Pipeline              37.00              14.21
1885      1960      Bmque Nationale de x=isie  Third Agriclasmal O:it                 30.00               5.96
196L      1981      Repblic of luaiai            Fuxth Educatimi                      26.O0              21.60
1969      1981       Rqzdlic of hsmisi            Sil-6cale lFeztxy    D      teopi.c  30.00             16.98
1997      1981       Repqblic of Umisi           NorTlst tual De1qul       t          24.00               14.81
2003      1981       SociL&  flixem  de
1'Elccricit6 et di CGe      Third Power                          37.50               4.70
2005      1981       Reblic of Eliii             b&aith and Population                12.50               9.82
2052      1981       Reptb1ic of fzia"i          Grain Distribution ma  Stog          38.O               21.71
2108      1962      Rqxblic of Inisia            F fth *i my   nal Bms                35.50             723.63
2113      1982       Boa                          Electrical. and M uical TIusTries 30.50                 13.11
M13A      1982     SEIE                         Sixth Ietar Supply                   30.50               5.72
257       1982       Repblic of 1musis           I:rrigtiom Deulopqt                  22.00              17.35
2197      1982      Reptlic of linisia           Teduical Asistane                     4.50               2.99
2223      1983      Repblic of nmisgi            Udb  D      revpi.zc  mI             25.00              21.98
2230      1983      Redpulic of imisia            FAKratiim V                         27.00              25.48
2234      1983       Rexblic of Uxtisia           ntml fxisia Irigation               16.50               11.28
2255      1983       Rqxblic of ixisia            1kbm S aey  I3m                     34.00              32.16
2289      1983      RqB0 lic of TMusia           Sfmc Floo  Fotection                 25.00              22.32
2301      l983      SCPa                          b&Mtq (lv  Fowuy                    16.80              12.07
23(6      1981.      Retllic of fixsia           Mining Tecal Aistaswe                13.40              11.45
2368      l984        Ad=lis of lIisia             9eh Water Supply                   50.00              47.61
2429      1984      Rqpblic of Dmiiia            Seon Urban  rbansport                33.00              32.92
2455      198       Soci&  Iisieme de
L'Meccricicl et du az       Forth Bower                          38.70              38.60
2502 a/   195        Republic of lxiisi          .4nth We  Agricultural Production   15.00               15.00
2522      1985      Reablic of Dlisia            Eqxwort iidties                      50.0D              50.0O
2554      1985      RepqhLic of flmisia          Secad Mlctrical a.id MKhical         54.00              54.00
2573 a/   I985       Rexpbic of fi:ia              rz1qezat 1wxie t t    22.00                           22.00
2605 a/   1985      Renblic Of Dmusiia            Gbes Irrigattio                     27.70              27.70
TOI3L                                                          1,481.0e.   75.15   663.26
Of %hich has been repaid                                        260.31      9.8"
T1al n owt ataliig                                            1,220.73    65.31
Amout SoAd                          23.38
of buch has been reaid            14.33
Tocal uww held by Bank ast Mk bl                              1,197.35    65.31
bia    aburssi                                                                    663.26
f   NoC yet effectiw
b/  Prior o   ure  e  adjustgat
1061S



- 32 -
Pg 2 of 2
Srmw  O IrC INerM  IN 1UNS  (AS CF HUM 31, 1966)
Yaw  CbLigator              lbpe of Bms                         Ahtmt of US; 1lion
1~~~~          f      Total
1962       N P K EPam                          ertilize                       2.0           1.5        3.5
1966             Socikti sktiiale
d'r,.t_sast (n' MEr)  Dev. Finmwe Co.                                     0.6        0.6
1969        a        sr (arima am  MM)        Dev. Finane Co.                 8o            2.2        10.2
1970             BDEr                         Dev. Finmme Co.                               0.6        0.6
1973             Socikt  uriscique et
hbtelibk RMM SI             T azrim                         1.6           0.3        1.9
1974              nintnes Qduiqts du Flzxr OwicaLm                                          0.6        0.6
1975             Sihtf d'Etude et de
Dewloppmir -le Smzu-Hbd TIbis                               2.5           0.6        3.1
1978                                          Dv. FinEne C.                                 1.2        1.2
1964             Socikk Iniisma de leasing T1sira (b.                                       0.5        0.5
1964             SociAi Minike de Spir
Flwr et de BuytiD
( UCI)SO                   mining ao.                                    0.3        0.3
-btal Ckss   Qitz.as                                        14.1           8.4       22.5
T-aos. Rays
and Sales                                                  13.2           1.8       15.0
beld by                                                     0.9           6.6         7.5
Tbtal U 1libursed                                           0.0            0.3        0.3
1   In adition, n: approed on Jamzy 7, 1966, an invesuc of app=d.mcely USS 8.2 zillion equiWt in Socik&f
TIzxtlriele des bctiles, "STEL"'.
07MS/84



- 33 -
ANNEX III
TUNISIA
ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project : 10 months
(b) Project prepared by             : Bank staff, consultants & Agence
de Maitrise de l'Energie (AME)
(c) First mission to consider
project idea                 : April 1985
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1986
(e)  Completion of negotiations    : May 30, 1986
(f)  Board presentation             : June 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness : September 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) No later than December 31, 1986, AME will provide for Bank review
and approval a list of participants in the energy demonstration
cases under sectors selected for the project (para. 52).
(b) The AME will provide every six months a report to the Bank and the
Government on the progress made in its work program in general,
and the project in particular, and introduce changes in its work
program as required by the Government and the Bank (para. 55).
(c) The Government and the Bank will have annual consultations during
the execution of the project to review the policy, institutional
and administrative framework for energy conservation, including
the Government's energy pricing policy, with the objective of
maintaining national prices for petroleum products at
international levels, and ensuring the efficient implementation of
energy conservation in the country (para. 55).
(d) A Special Account to assist AME in making timely payments would be
opened at the Central Bank with an initial deposit of $400,000
(para. 59).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV-1
TUNISIA: ENERGY CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
STATUS OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION
1. Energy Resource Base and Balance
1.1      Energy resources of Tumisia consist principally of oil and
natural gas (associated and non-associated). Other resources (lignite
and hydropower) are insignificant. Although Tunisia has a good solar
regime and, in the northern coastal areas, winds of fair velocities for a
considerable part of the year, these resources have still to be developed.
1.2      Recoverable oil reserves are estimated to be about 60 million
tons out of total proven and probable reserves of about 70 million tons.
However, most of these reserves are in relatively old fields, and
production from the most important field (El-Borma) is declining, and
will decrease rapidly from now till 1994.
1.3      Tunisia's proven gas reserves are estimated at about 66 million
toe. The only gas currently being produced in Tunisia is associated gas
from the El-Borma field. Production of this field is, however, declining
in parallel with the decline in oil production. The most substantial
known reserves are in the Miskar field. Other small gas fields have been
discovered in the Gulf of Gabes and in the southern part of the country.
The economic viability of these fields has still to be evaluated.
1.4      Tunisia has secured an annual supply of natural gas (increasing
from 0.2 million toe in 1984 to 0.4 million toe in 1987) as a transit fee
for Algerian gas transported to Italy through the Transcontinental
Pipeline. In addition, a contract with Algeria was signed in 1984 to
purchase gas.
1.5      Since 1970, energy consumption has increased steadily with an
annual average of 10 percent from 1 million toe in 1970 to 3.8 million
toe in 1984 (including electricity). This growth was most remarkable
between 1970 and 1980 (11 percent) and tapered off between 1980 and 1984
(5 percent). For meeting its energy requirements, Tunisia is almost
totally dependent (98 percent) on hydrocarbons; in 1984 the consumption
of oil products and natural gas was made up of heavy fuel oil (28
percent), gasoil (27 percent), natural gas (23 percent), gasoline (6
percent), LPG (5 percent), and kerosene use and jet fuel (8 percent).
The remaining 3 percent is met by hydropower, hard coal and coke.
1.6      Domestic production of crude oil and natural gas increased from



- 35 -
about 4.8 million toe in 1976 to 6.3 million toe in 1984. Because of the
limited local refinery capacity, Tunisia is importing a substantial
volume of oil products and exporting the bulk of its crude: of the 1984
crude oil production of 5.4 million tons, only 1.6 million tons was
processed in the Bizerte local refinery and 3.8 million tons exported.
The balance of oil products demand estimated at 2.7 million toe is
imported. Natural gas is expected to play a major role in meeting
Tunisia's future energy requirements. In addition to local gas
production (in 1984: 692,000 million toe) increasing amounts of gas are
imported from Algeria (in 1984: 314,500 million toe of royalty gas and
841,700 million toe of purchased gas). With the decreasing production of
Tunisia's present oil and gas fields, and in the absence of new
discoveries, the domestic energy balance is expected to deteriorate and
the country would become a net energy importer by the early 1990s.
1.7      The energy consumption by source for 1982 and 1984 is shown in
Table 1. The energy balance forecast for Tunisia gives a clear
indication that in 1990 the demand will be higher than domestic
production if no actions are initiated to limit the demand. The actual
energy balance as published by the MEM for 1980 and 1984 is reproduced in
Table 2 -
2. The Industrial Energy Consumption
2.1      In 1984 the industrial sector accounted for 1,452,000 toe
(41.8 percent including electricity) of the total energy consumption in
Tunisia. The energy use per subsector is given in Table 3.
2.2      However, in the official energy consumption statistics, sulphur
is not recognized as an important energy resource. The Tunisian
fertilizer industry, as part of the chemical subsector, is using
substantial amounts of sulphur. In 1984, about 900,000 tons of sulphur
(199,370 toe) was imported. The total energy consumption of the chemical
subsector in 1984, including the energy derived from sulphur, was about
327,000 toe in 1984. It is the second most important energy consumer of
the irdustrial sector as shown in Table 4. Table 5 shows a list of the
most energy intensive industrial plants.
2.3      Industrial energy efficiency studies carried out during 1980-85
with assistance from USAID and the French Government confirm that there
is an important potential for energy saving in the industrial sector.
Preliminary energy audit activities have been carried out for about 15
plantsL/ in energy-intensive industries like steel, cement, bricks and
ceramics, pulp and paper, phosphate mining, fertilizer and sugar. The
overall potential for energy savings in the industrial sector for the
period 1985-90 .s estimated to be about 20 percent. At 1984
1/ These audits did not include some of the most energy-intensive plants
in Table 5.



- 36 -
production levels, this represents an annual saving of about US$40-45
million (at $130 per toe). Forty to fifty percent of this potential can
be realized with minor investments, through better housekeeping,
operational and maintenance procedures. Experience in developed countries
and of the Bank in LDC's confirm that these simple measures represent an
essential first phase in an energy efficiency program and that they do not
require high levels of investment. The total energy savings and fuel
substitution potential is estimated to be about 290,000 toe and
distributed over the subsectors as indicated in Table 6. Fuel
substitution and cogeneration potential have yet to be fully assessed.
Cogeneration will be only feasible for new plants, as investment cost for
cogeneration in existing plants will be too high to be economically
attractive.
3. Energy Consumption in the Transport Sector
3.1       The nation's second largest energy consumer, this sector
consumed 983,300 toe in 1984, i.e., about 28 percent of the energy used in
Tunisia, divided over the subsectors as indicated in Table 7. Road
transport is by far the largest energy consumer. The number of road
vehicles in Tunisia has been increasing at a high average rate of over 10
percent per year since 1977.
3.2       An indication of the magnitude of energy savings attainable in
the transport subsector is provided by MEM in the report "Energy Problems,
Options and Orientations for the Horizon 2,000" published in 1984, which
states that the potential for savings in the transport sector has been
estimated between 5 and 10 percent for private vehicles, between 20 and 30
percent for light diesel trucks and approximately 15 percent for public
transport by road and rail. Overall the potential savings could reach 10
percent by means of appropriate actions not requiring heavy investments.
Another report indicates that the effects of vehicle maintenance practice
on automobile and light truck fuel economy were explored by means of
regression analysis. The results indicated better fuel economy for
vehicles with reduced rolling resistance, using a multiviscosity
lubricating oil, and radial tires. Efficiency improvements of the order
of 10 percent per maintained vehicle should be readily achievable through
these and other improved vehicle operating procedures.1'
1/    Greene, D.L.; Hu, P.S. and Rose, A.B. Transportation Energy Use and
Efficiency in Tunisia, 1984.



- 37 -
3.3       The feasibility of realizing these savings depends to a large
extent on the structure ani organization of the Tunisian road fleet. The
most recent Government estimate indicates a fleet of 215,000 vehicles in
1983 as follows:
Passenger cars                            115,000
Urban and intercity taxis                   6,500
Light trucks                               80,600
Urban and intercity buses                   4,400
Total                                     215,000
3.4       Beyond this, little information is available about fuel use by
vehicle category, vehicle ownership by enterprise and fuel consumption by
enterprise. Although considerable data is available on public passenger
and cargo transportation firms (upon which the mission's efforts focused),
they account for only about 12 percent of road fuel consumption (about
82,300/toe in 1984). Thus, it will be necessary to develop an adequate
data base before undertaking a broad energy conservation effort in the
road transport subsector.
3.5       Public ownership vehicles appear to be highly dispersed.  Some
indication of this dispersion is provided by the fact that the two largest
fleet operators, SNT (bus transport) and STM (cargo transport), account
for only 2.3 percent and 1.7 percent of total road fuel use respectively.
4. Energy Consumption in the Hotels/Buildings Sector
4.1       The tertiary sector includes those energy consumers not included
in the industrial, transportation, and agricultural sectors, and is made
up of commercial, institutional and residential buildings. In Tunisia,
the tertiary sector represents nearly 50 percent of the national
electricity consumption, and approximately 25 percent of the total energy
consumption (Table 9).
4.2       Given that tourism is one of the most important industries in
Tunisia, hotels represent nearly one-third of the tertiary sector
consumption, or 7 percent of energy consumption on a national level. For
the same reason, statistics on hotels are fairly complete: there are
approximately 400 hotels in Tunisia, nearly half of which are in the
3-star category or higher, or have at least 150 rooms. Thus a good
portion of tertiary sector energy consumption is concentrated among a
relatively small number of consumers, that is, large hotels.
4.3       Essentially no statistics are available on commercial or
institutional buildings, but it is evident that there are very few large
buildings in Tunisia other than hotels. One of the largest buildings in
Tunisia was found to have an annual energy consumption of less than 200
toe. Neither were data available on residential energy consumption, which
represents over one half of the tertiary sector consumption.



- 38 -
4.4       Almost all the buildings in Tunisia have a 5 month heating
season and a 5-month cooling season. All buildings, including most
residences, are heated, while less are cooled; residences, especially, are
often not cooled. Small window air-conditioners are very common,
especially in older buildings.
4.5       Table 9 lists the most common energy sources for the tertiary
sector. For heating services, light distillate oil (gasoil and domestic
fuel oil) are the most comuonly used fuels outside the residential
sector. Imported Algerian gas i3 being increasingly used in the hotel and
the residential sectors. All cooling systems are mechanical and are
powered by electricity; no evidence of electricity use for heating was
found.
4.6       The current relative prices of the most common energy sources
are given in Table 10. The electricity price is a monthly average for
hotel users; other buildings may have a slightly different average since
time-of-day pricing is used. The total energy saving potential for this
sector is estimated to be about 20 percent or 175,200 toe.
4.7       With regard to the commercial/institutional buildings, this
figure can be about 25 percent or 100,000 toe. The potential in
residential buildings will be far more difficult to develop. The best way
to tackle this subsector is by adapting the building codes and increasing
awareness for energy conservation through promotional campaigns.



TAb! I: imiomy                           v uuuC"
Su e -I     Naua       UV    thell_          1          t        ldsw        Jet       Uot         Ib       Qdqriit        _    _mqf     11_*q
Gm  a                                ROIII                   yi    PAI Oi                                VW  am
<h ~~~~~~~~1 oil1    s1 011                                                                               __
Imutry 3/    12         I_                    3,0113,0     1s0  -  113,1    S,000       6,100       -        4.44,0    40,80        S.n0D        I,3 G,1          43.6
116     1,101      161,500   l,.4a      -         1s,500    33,W00       7,10D       -         6,000    71,         "3,00        1,4a. Sm         41.6
trauput        162       --                    -       *SII    479,710    315,30           -       11,0                   -          2.000        "3,700          N.
l     -  5,60   223,000    361e50                   - gm,32,o    si.0               -          2010          ,13M           23.2
ArwcIlte      i          _           _         _         -        111,105     -     -     _                    - _                   3  .I M1,                     4.0
194       -            -        -         -        L,9S0       3.40        No         -         7.Sao      -         2S.91          1,S40           S.0
lgtic ad    1162         -           -      In,uo        -        n.700    32,70    130,            -           -         -        332,010         739300         Z
Tertiary
Sctor        1      1O000         5,W   1529.00       -        144',      17,300    139,lO        -           30      4_ .41D                     6,000        2Sa1
ttl           12         _        113,000  140,30   U11.30       33,70   1170.D       135,101     ,00 165610 49 0      630      ft,00         3,116,N3        IOD.o
166    11a.         113,700  176.200   224.WU     l,3100    73.300    166.33        132.5tO   "60.50     71,200     861.70        3,45,20         1l.0
s.etrkicty  / 112         -        40,000      -         -        44.R0        500        -          -       444,000      -           --             =
51m            116        -         11,700     -                   11,10      2.70        -          -       337.400      -                                        _ -
Ptfmry         1162       -        521.000  140,.J 1     ,10      791.600    117,700    135,100    164,300   12,33    40,0            -          3,130.0W          _
Ca._Ui         1164       -         M,400  176,320   Z14,O0    1I,m          6,000    146,3o       132,500  3.6.41,3    71,200                   3. 3 .-
(D-I1b) 
I Inclu   tim _do ptui   pra eta Ib the ai,q.
  Electricity islw1 v at te h       t   dof tl f_mI    d _to  I,   It.



40 
Table 2: ENE3GY DALANCE
(Thousand Ton of Oil Equivalent)
Actual
1960     1964
Crude Oil
Domestic production                          5,750    5,487
Plus: Imports                                1.125
Leos: Exports and Stock Changes             (5,275)  (3,831)
Subtotal Crude 01                       1,600    1,656
Oil Products
Domestic production                          1,500    1,538
Plus: Imports                                1,205    1,145
Less: Exports and Stock Changes               (267)    -
Plus: Losses                                            174
Subtotal Oil Products                    2,438    2,857
Gas
Domestic production                            409      378
Royalty Gas                                      0      314
Plus: Imports                                    -      120
Subtotal Gas                               409       812
Hvdro                                              12        16
Coal and Coke (import)                            100      71
Total Supply                             2,959    3,756
DEMAND
Oil Products                                    2,438    2,683
Gad                                               409      812
Hydro                                              12        16
Coal and Coke                                     lOO       71
Generation Losses                                 -         174
Total Demand a/                          2,959    3,756
a/ Including electricity consumption.
Sources: NEM and World Sank.



Table 3:  INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSL'P.TION
(1984)
Subsee or                        too                Porcentass
Agricultural  and food Industry           119,000                 8.2
Chemical Industry                         127,700                 8.8
Construction materials                   617,000                 42.5
Mechanical Industry                      220,700                 15.2
Mining                                    236,600                16.3
Pulp and Paper                            59,400                  4.1
TextIles                                   56,600                 3.9
Others                                     15,000                 1.1
1,452,000               100.0
Table 4:  INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSMUPTION
(1984, revised for sulphur use)
Subsector                        Coo                PercentaZe
Agricultural and Food Industry            119,000                 7.2
Chemical Industry                        327,000                 19.8
Construction Materials                   617,000                 37.4
Mechanical Industry                      220,i700                L3.4
Mining                                   236,600                 14.3
Pulp and Paper                            59,400                  3.4
Textlles                                  56,600                  3.5
Others                                     15,000                 L.0
1,651,300               LO0.0



- 42 -
Table 5: LIST OF 30 MOST ENERGY-INTENSIVE PLANTS
1. Compagnie de Phosphates de Gafsa (GAFSA)
2.  El Fouledh Steelworks (BIZERTE)
3. Ciments de Bizerte (BIZERTE)
4. Ciments Artlficiels Tunisiens (TUNIS)
5. Soci6th de Ciments de Gabes (GABES)
6.  S.N. de Cellulose et de Papier Alfa (KASSERINE)
7. Cimenterie d'Om Khelil
8.  Soc. Ind. Acide Phosphorique et Engrais - SIAPE A (SFAX)
9. Soc. Ind. Acide Phosphorique et Engrais - SIAPE B (SFAX)
10. Soc. Tunisienne du Sucre (BEJA)
11. Briquetterie Zarouk
12. Soc. Arabe des Engrais PhosphatEs et Azotes - SAEPA (GABES)
13.  Soc. des Industries Chimiques Maghrebines - ICM (GABES)
14. Union Generale (JEMMAL)
15. Briquetterie Fouchana
16. Briquetterie All M'Henni
L7.  Soc. Mitallurgique et Miniere (TUNIS)
18. Sotuver (TUNIS)
L9.  Briquetterie El Hamms  (GABES)
20. Soc. Ind. des Textiles Reunis - SITER (TUNIS)
21.  La Ceramique Tunisienne (TABARKA)
22. SITEX (Ksar Belal)
23. tnd. Chimique de Fluor - ICF (GABES)
Z4.  Ceramique de l'Ouest
25.  La CAramique Tunisienne
26. Soc. Frigorifique et Brasserie de Tunis - SFBT (TUNIS)
27. Tunisie Lait S.A. (Sousse)
28. S.A. de Potinville
29. Ciments Artificiels Tunisiens
30. Granuphos (SFAX)



-43-
TabLe 6: ENERGY SAVING AND FUEL SUBSTITUTION POTENTIAL IN INDUSTRY
lnergy             Energy           Energy
Subsector                    Cousumption           Saving           Saving
'000 too          PotentiaL         '000 toe
Agricultural and  .ood Ind.          119.0               20              23.8
Cbe&cals                             127.7               30              38.3
Construction Materials               617.0               15              92.5
MechanicaL Industries                220.7               20              U.1
Mining                               236.6               30              70.9
Pulp and Paper                        59.4               20             l1.8
Textiles                              56.6               10               5.6
Others                                15.0               1o               1.5
1,452.0               20            288.5
Table 7:  ENERGY CONSUMPTION - TRANSPORT SECTOR
Subsector                        too                Percentage
Air Transport                             152,400                15.5
Maritime Transport                        118,000                12.0
tailroads                                  35,400                 3.6
Public Road Transport                     107,200                10.9
Privar-e Road Transport                   570,300                58.0
983,300               100.0
Source: SKs.



-44 -  . .
h.:le   TRANSPORT SECTOR ENERGY CONSLXPTION
1Y TYPE OF FUEL (1984)
Fuel Type                    toe                Percentage
Gesoil                           562,500              57.2
G"oline          *22,200                              22.6
Kerosene and Jet Fuel            163,200              16.6
Others                            35,400               3.5
Source: SHE - adapted.
Table 9:  HTELS3/UILDINGS SECTOR ENLrRGY CO0SUMPTION
BY SOURCE (1984)
(1,000 tot)
Sector
Energy               Coerclal &                                 Country
Source               TAstitutional    Residential    Total   Total V
Manufactured Gas                3.4             6.0          9.4       10.4
Natural Gas                     2.1             3.7          5.8      173.7
LPG                           22.2            130.7        152.9      176. 2
Gas Oil                       116.8            28.0        144.8      973.8
Domestic Fuel oil              13.7             6.8         20.5       78.3
Cooking Fuel                    5.4           133.6        139.0      1:6.5
Electricity                  237.3            167.1        404.4      841.7
Other Fuels                   -                -            -       1,088.5
TOTAL                        400.9         -  475.9        876.8    3,489.1
a/ !Not including STEG consumption.
Source:  SH-



- 45 -
Table 10: PRICE FOR EXJERGY SOURCES APPLICABLE TO THE
HOTELS/BUILDINGS SECTOR (January 1986)
Price Per toe
Energy Source                Unlt Price                 DT      U.S.(S)
Domestic Fuel Oil
or Gas Oil                 DT 0.23/1                  247       334
Gas (natural)                 DT 0.0133/Hcal            130       176
Electricity                  DT 0.05/kWh a/             159 /   215
a/ Typical average cost for hotels on time-of-day pricing during
the latter half of 1985.
b- Assumes overall thermal-to-electric conversion efficiency of 27%,
a number used currently in Tunisia.
Source: SME and Kagler, Bailly & Co.



I
m w-
IUOSIA - ME=       WRAU  Dm NMTK M_ :r
/A Omaimtiwn Qzrt
DLmb,r dm
h          i{on aW  iSties am  Plamim  g   1ic1                    l     bW Z=W                         r i 
hifomtion                  Depubm rt                                    |                                    1t     l      | Uiatmtiom  Dmtn    I
Staff a 2               Staff s 4                 Staffa a             Stff s I                     Stuff a 3
kctivitiefls            hctivitiers              ktivit;"s             Activitims                   Activtit  
-pumtimul casai.;   -data collectir;             -supevision ad        -m4uvihima S  at=Ml          -     _n_tImi of
-info.tion coaim;   -studies;                     cmttol of  dUt. +    Of i      In a lo             ficiml Iuti_I
-ahinistrationof        -plauiq;                  ca-m t                  lipnt  mtivtim;           igi to e14iblae v ;
library;               -bic anlyses for         -pzqmitim  (with      -=vim ad bIlcu1 of            fial autiattiN          l
-public relatiow.        policis/legiala-         (Dom) of zeq              'le  awv  iweat-         of mltitUabl &W bi-
tiv. x.latim              mms ad  *audad;        "a;                       I1mI    .
ad thwir iqut.          -evieu of -t          -partiipation In ps-r
efficimy of lap      tisul c_qiaw  ad
ime.bamt pnject.   user traohdz.
(with AM1);
-atificatloo of
local COM1tim;
-prticlpatim  in par
otilnd c_qci  &Ud
Lsr trainlg.
lMtiy Depomt
bin 1966
0703S/53



- 47 -
ANNEX IV-3
mNSLA - EB    aONWAf        W1ERATTN14 P R3CT
Total AM Work Pmgram for 1987 - 1989
k elminry Mhn-mxith stlimtitons
World Bmk Program     Otber ?rcgram      Total 3-Year ME Progran
For-                For-               For-                 Grad
Activitie              ep  local   _E eign Local  MIE   en  local  AME    Total
Industry               46.0  50.0  78.0al 25.0  85.0  35.0   71.0  135.0 113.Oa/ 319.0
Transport              17.5  17.5  15.0    8.0  18.0   8.0   25.5  35.5  23.0    84.0
Tertiary                7.5  21.0  24.0a/  3.4  33.8  10.0   10.9  54.8  34.Oa/  99.7
Prooiom &
Inforntion           13.0   4.0  20.0    -       4.0  2D.0   13.0   8.0  40.0    61.0
Subtotal           84.0  92.5  137.0   36.4  140.8  73.0  120.4 233.3 210.0a/ 563.7
Renewble Eergies        -     -      -      3.0   -    12.0    3.0   -    12.0    15.0
Stud   & Plming         -     -      -     10.0  15.0  45.0   10.0  15.0  45.0    70.0
Total              84.0  92.5  137.0   49.4 155.8 130.0  133.4 248.3 267.0a/ 648.7
-   -   -    _   _                       -     -   _    -
a/ These estimations inxie staff tine for trainigE as   Ias contribtion to otber
departents (e.g., fr p=otion iork, stuies, etc.).
Industry Ibartien
March 1986



- 48 -
n4SuA- -am  P:AnwR4               MM3rI      EC
Lst of  tutron Cumm by Camxt
P-tec  Direc S      /Year
fte1Imzry Eaclmgad Total Cou of                           Avrq. Z of  S'000 (ac
Emw hktslAtimu (S'000)                                Total         1SS per
FomLwL                            TOCa-            too        -         DayrBaul of OlL)
KM (Chadcals)  W0-L,X00.O&I     26.0-500.0.1  106.0-1,50.0/   7      , 100.1/  1.5-7.0    75.0410.Oa
S=m (Tt-1M)                  1O.O              50.0            150.0          400        10.0          ;0.0
SLA  (Fortilm)         65.0-90D0.0/     16.0 4=0.a/   81.0-1,300.0.1  1,2D5,300&/ 4.0-17.5   120.0-530.0a/
SAPA (FerzcLinr         50.0-00.0iii     16.0-4.0.C/      66.0-900.0.1    6ao-2,3./  1.5-5.5    60.0-Z30.CaJ
Spr (Soft Di1ra)              95.0             40.0            135.0           450       13.0          45.0
Cm 
(Gmc)                  73.0-350.0./     55.0-130.0a/    138.0D-.8.0o/   4D4,300m/  0.5-7.0    40.0-'430.0a/
(ftidw)                     167.0             55.0            222.0         1,800       14.0         18.0
9:A  (Foury)                 10Y.0             27.0            131.0            -         -             -
SNIAP (T)                   203.0             67.0            270.0          500        14.0          50.0
s5UVlW (GIM.)                236.0            654.0            890.0          450         5.0          45.0
Mule L,tt
(Dary)                      115.0             32.0            147.0          390        13.0          39.0
sm. (Idry)                    95.0             27.0            122.0          350        13.0          35.)
Subcoal         1.383.0-3.865.0  1,065.02,382.0  2,448.0-6,247.0  7,290-20,3ff        6.a 729.0-2,334.0
--r                          133.0              3.0            136.0          2.13       14.0         276.6
sm -IZeM                      69.0              7.5             76.5          0.70       19.0          91.3
gm -                          7bf  72.7         8.5             81.2         0.23        14.0          30.2
sNOP                          60.3              7.2             67.5         0.22        19.0          28.7
fLnistay of
AgLIcature                   85.0              8.0            93.0          0.68        19.0          88.6
CNAS                          68.7              4.0             72.7         0.85        19.0         111.2
STu                           28.3              2.2            30.5          0.07        19.0           8.8
To Be DetermUmd, 
Subtotal                 517.0            4O.4             557.4          . 88        o.O3 .
1ItelAdldlrgs Cccoet
Hotel Sal AZLW               105.7            92.4            198.1          0.27        28.0          3z-.3
H1cl Satma BaDch             141.7            124.4           266.1          0.22        16.0          Zs.
Hocal D1 Q
Adsaus                       73.8            78.2             152.0         0.30        33.0          39.2
Hocal Ow Jerb                140.8            108.8           249.6          0.47        17.0         60.6
Hocal Iucertii nuL           157.3            33.0            190.3          0.19        22.0          25._
pH tal ta Rabca              47.0             486              95.6          0.15         2.0         18.9
.eagasln  Gemral              35.3            23.4             58.7          0.06        15.0          a.3
Hocal Sahra Palaca           154.3            79.2            233.5          0.16        66.0         '.3
Subtocal                 855.9            588.0          1,443.9         1.82        21.0         :36.'
a/ It   l    r e lnnczincl  ts and savirp from amly hmeep aing 8sta-term cUevti"         n etamires; CmS cxer
ram  1nclud  tid  ctas an soAvp ccpecrt fra the larws izs            for breftbilciom to b zxram
Qlxy if thir  abiitcy is deterniced by the feAsibility sctudes. fhee pssbLe rhablitat1as knvestir =stC
are chuzefoie trInc3Jsx eId In r  propoed Bnk loan.
rh 1986*



