Report No. PID5635
Project Name                Bosnia-Emergency Industrial Re-start Project (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Industry
Project ID                       BAPA45820
Borrower                         Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency              Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA)
Ms. Lamija Kozaric, General Director
Danijela Ozme 7
71000 Sarajevo
phone 387-71-202-230
fax 387-71-202-231
Environmental Category           B
Date PID prepared                April 29, 1997
Appraisal                        July 29 - August 16, 1996
Board Date                       December 13, 1997
Country and Sector Background
Bosnia and Herzegovina was a well developed industrial economy
before the recent war, ranking among the leaders of the former
socialist economies of Eastern Europe and well known as a reliable
supplier of export goods and services. There were about 1000
industrial organizations which contributed about half of the GNP
and employed nearly 450,000 people - about half the number of
people in formal employment. The industrial structure consisted of
a dozen or so big export-oriented conglomerates while the 1,000 or
so smaller firms were directed mainly to the local market.
Considerable industrial activity, natural resources, capital stock,
and technical and commercial human skills existed before the
conflict. Some of it is salvageable with relatively minor
investments, mostly in working capital. Industrial reconstruction
will provide considerable employment and is one of the core
elements of future development in BH, as there is little agriculture.
The key to successfully re-starting those parts of the industry
sector in BH that remains viable but which now operates at 5 - 10%
of its rated capacity, is to define and then implement simple, low
cost projects that can be brought to profitable operation quickly
in open competition in the world market. Detailed discussions with
some 30 large and medium-sized industrial enterprises in all parts
of BH showed that there is no shortage of such projects, although
enterprise managers often want to restart the whole enterprise at
once. Typically the deals would be able to be closed in 6 - 12
months, would be completed in another 6 - 12 months and would cost
no more than a few million DM.
4.      Financing for the projects would come from foreign industrial
partner firms and/or foreign banks and would be mostly for working



capital to purchase inputs, cover processing costs and fund the
shipment of the output and whatever credit would be given to
buyers. Some small investments in equipment repair or renewal would
also be covered. Discussion with likely foreign partners and banks
showed that there is strong interest in doing this type of business
in BH, i.e. starting with small deals that can be easily and
quickly closed and implemented. Once working relations become
established and confidence grows, the way would be open for larger
deals with longer terms.
The foreign firms which are ready to take on the commercial risks
of such projects generally know the capability and reliability of
the BH firms from pre-war experience. Foreign banks are ready to
participate both on the basis of past experience with the BH firms,
and by such mechanisms as taking mortgages on fungible materials
and equipment. What these foreign firms and banks are unwilling to
accept now is the risk that political events, including renewed
outbreaks of hostilities, could jeopardize the projects. Political
risks common to many economies in transition and exacerbated by the
recent hostilities in BH are mainly to do with retroactive changes
in rules and regulations that change the "rules of the game" and
disrupt the business environment.
Objectives
By providing credible guarantees against political and war risks, a
Political Risk Guarantee Facility (PRGF) mitigates the risks that
are inhibiting the private sector from financing working capital
for commercially viable BH enterprises. A traditional line of
credit operation would not eliminate the political and war risks,
and so would not catalyze private foreign financing. The PRGF
complements and supports the enterprise reform program that BH
intends to launch by : identifying and channeling private resources
to commercially viable enterprises and transactions; helping
restore employment and viable production for export in the short
term, while reforms are taking hold; helping BH enterprises build
links with foreign partners, diversifying their sources of supply
and improving their access to markets; being sufficiently flexible
to support more sophisticated financial instruments for the
financing of pre-export transactions, as these are introduced in
the BH market; promoting a transparent business climate in which
the rule of law prevails.
Description
The project consists of two components: (i) support to IGA
(Investment Guarantee Agency), an independent corporation
established by the Government to operate the Political Risk
Guarantee Facility (PRGF), which would aim at attracting foreign
private financing to re-start production in viable parts of Bosnian
industry, and whose marketing department would support the PRGF by
providing information and matchmaking services to help enterprises
close deals with foreign partners; and (ii) financing for critical
imports for industry which would be provided in the future from IDA
(ITF) funds not used to pay claims when the PRGF is closed.
- 2 -



IGA employs an Agent Bank, ING Bank of the Netherlands, which
performs the following services:
-- Letter of Credit Issuance. The Agent Bank issues a Standby
Letter of Credit simultaneously with the issuance of each
guarantee contract by IGA. This letter of credit
stipulates that if due, the agent bank would pay claims on
behalf of IGA with funds withdrawn from the IDA (ITF)
credit facility. In deciding whether to pay a claim, the
Agent Bank would respond to documents only -- either an
admission of liability by IGA, or an arbitrator's judgment
against IGA.
-- Marketing. The Agent Bank, through its existing network of
offices and otherwise, will facilitate IGA's efforts in
marketing the availability of the facility with the
international business community.
-- Record Keeping. The Agent Bank is responsible for ensuring
that the outstanding guarantees do not exceed the total
amount available under the facility. Thus, the Agent Bank
keeps records of the amount, effective date, and
termination date of each guarantee. The Agent Bank will
also keep records of all pending claims and keep IDA
informed on a regular basis of all newly issued letters of credit.
Risk Coverage The precise terms and conditions of the
guarantee sold by the IGA would be specified in a
standard guarantee contract covering guarantee holders
for losses that occur as a direct result of the
following risks, occurring after the effective date of the guarantee:
acts of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina which
prevent the local enterprise from transferring or
obtaining foreign currency to pay the guaranteed
credit, or impose unfair or discriminatory exchange rates;
expropriation of the enterprise in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
import bans imposed by the government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina on goods that are part of the guaranteed transaction;
*       export bans imposed by the government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina on goods that are part of the guaranteed transaction;
*       interference by the government of Bosnia and
Herzegovina in the carriage
of goods that are part of the guaranteed transaction
imposition of new or increased import taxes on the
importation of goods that are part of the guaranteed transaction;
imposition of new or increased export taxes on goods
that are part of the guaranteed transaction;
- 3 -



*       inability to complete the guaranteed transaction due to
an embargo imposed by the United Nations;
*       inability to complete the guaranteed transaction due to
war or civil disturbance;
*       incurring of costs from diversion of voyage caused by
the occurrence of one of the above stated risks.
Fees and limits. The guarantee fee is 3% per annum on the
guaranteed amount. The maximum maturity of the guaranteed extension
of credit is three years. Transaction size can be between DEM
50,000 and DEM 3 million.
Financing
IDA (ITF) is the primary source of finance for the operation
identified so far but individual nations have indicated an interest
in providing co-financing, possibly in the form of promissory
notes. In view of the expected demand for guarantees, the
Government's objective is to raise a total of DEM 75 million for
the facility. Therefore, the financing plan is as follows:
Guarantee Facility:
IDA (ITF)                        DEM 16 million
Switzerland                      DEM 10.5 million
Sweden                           DEM 1.5 million
Financing Gap                    DEM 37 million
Total                            DEM 75 million
Sustainability
The careful and responsible use of the PRGF by IGA will de facto
ensure that only those businesses and projects which can attract
private foreign funding - and therefore, have a good prospects of
viability and sustainability - will be restarted. Longer term
sustainability will be assured once the country implements the
necessary reforms, and the businesses are privatized or joint-
ventured. There is no plan to make the guarantee project as such
sustainable. On the contrary, the purpose of the project is to be a
"shot-in-the-arm" designed solely to get industrial operations
going again, and that achieved, to be would up and terminated.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The Bank Group is supporting one operation with features similar to
the proposed project. The implementation of this operation, the
Moldova Pre-export Guarantee Facility (3851-MD), has yielded the
following lessons that have been incorporated in the project design:
-- without a substantial marketing effort, the start-up
period of the facility is likely to be sluggish;
- 4 -



-- an active role for the Agent Bank in marketing the
facility is essential for its success in attracting
foreign finance;
-- the facility needs to be flexible enough to accommodate a
range of financial instruments, including confirmation of
L/C's from local banks.
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project has been classified in Environmental
Assessment Category B. To ensure that no guarantee would be
available to support the important of environmentally harzardous
inputs, the IGA will be provided with a list of products and
transactions that do not meet Bank and/or BH environmental
requirements. A negative list of banned pesticides, derived from
the WHO categories of "Extremely Hazardous" materials would also be
permitted to be imported under the auspieces of the PRGF. The IGA
will hire a local environmental expert who will review and approve
applications, in consultation with the Bank when necessary.
During supervision of the project, IGA operations and
procedures will be monitored by environmental specialists from the
Bank to ensure their compliance with World Bank requirements. The
Bank will promptly notify the IGA of any changes in the Bank's
environmental regulations specifically regarding pesticides and
industrial chemicals. The sub-projects will have to comply with
local environmental laws, rules and regulations in force at that
time, as set forth in the Operating Manual, during the whole period
of operation of the project.
Project Benefits
The project would help:
-- BH enterprises, traders and banks establish links with
private trading companies and input suppliers who are
willing to finance commercially viable, self-liquidating transactions;
-- contribute to the emergence of private input supply and
output marketing channels and, by creating equal
opportunities for all sectors, it would allow private
markets to determine which enterprises will receive financing;
-- address one of the most pressing financial constraints
facing the BH economy, the lack of financing for high
priority inputs and working capital;
-- foster joint ventures and investment relationships by
encouraging potential partners to become familiar with
each other in the course of short term input supply
relationships.
-- BH establish a track record of policy stability, thereby
improving its reputation in foreign financial markets.
- 5-



Risks
The main risk is that private lenders will not be induced to
finance transactions despite the risk mitigation offered by the
PRGF. This risk is compounded by the novelty of the project. The
"novelty" risk is minimized by following established practices in
export finance and credit insurance. By giving the IGA the
flexibility to support a wide range of financial instruments and
mechanisms, it will be able to support transactions in the present
environment as well as in the future when conventional finance
channels becomes more developed. This risk has been further limited
by consultations with a wide variety of commercial lenders, input
suppliers, and trading companies who have provided useful design
suggestions.
Contact Point:           Onno Ruhl, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-9119
Fax No.:   (202) 477-1523
E-Mail: oruhl@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 3, 1997.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental
No major environmental issues are associated with this project. The
main environmental concern associated with this project is that
guarantees could support importing environmentally hazardous
inputs, the production of environmentally hazardous outputs, and
environmentally hazardous activities.
To ensure that no guarantee would be available to support importing
environmentally hazardous inputs and the production of
environmentally hazardous outputs, IGA's Operations Manual includes
a list of products and transactions that do not meet Bank and/or
Albanian environmental requirements. During supervision of the
project, the Bank would promptly notify the IGA of any changes in
the Bank's environmental regulations specifically regarding
pesticides and industrial chemicals. The sub-projects have to
comply with local environmental laws, and rules and regulations in
force at that time, as set forth in the Operating Manual, during
the whole period of operation of the project. The environmental
chapter of the Operations Manual has bee cleared by World Bank
environmental experts during project preparation. As the rest of he
Operations Manual, IGA cannot change the environmental provision
without explicit approval from the World Bank.
IGA is employing an independent expert, to certify that goods
included in an application are not on the World Bank list mentioned
above. For each application to date, this expert has issued a
certificate to confirm that the transaction complies with the
environmental chapter of the Operations Manual.
The transactions supported by the project so far have not raised
any special environmental concerns. Most transactions involved re-
start of existing production facilities and/or environmentally
benign activities.
-7-



