                   Document of
               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 31976

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
    (IF-N0010 TF-28931 TF-24777 TF-24769)

                       ON A

                     CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                         TO

        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                    FOR THE

EMERGENCY INDUSTRIAL RESTART PROJECT
  (incorporating a political risk guarantee facility)




                   April 6, 2005

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2005)

                        Currency Unit = Bosnian and Herzegovina Mark
                           BH Mark 1 = US$ 0.6741
                                US$ 1 = BH Mark 1.4834

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1     December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BH        Bosnia and Herzegovina
IDA       International Development Association
IGA       Investment Guarantee Agency
PAD       Project Appraisal Document

                        Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                      Sector Manager      Gerrardo Corrochano
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Lloyd Edgecombe

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                                Emergency Industrial Restart


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P045820                                                  Project Name: Emergency Industrial Restart
Team Leader: Lloyd Edgecombe                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 2, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Industrial Restart                             L/C/TF Number: IF-N0010; TF-28931;
                                                                                                     TF-24777; TF-24769
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings (100%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Other trade and
                            integration (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/26/1996                                     Effective:                           04/03/1997
     Appraisal: 07/21/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/13/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 10/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/INVESTMENT GUARANTEE
                                           AGENCY
                      Other Partners:      Governments of Japan, Sweden, Switzerland and The Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Lynn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Gerrardo Corrochano                            Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR:             Lloyd Edgecombe                                Onno Ruhl
ICR Primary Author:             Lloyd Edgecombe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to help restart industry and production in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BH) by attracting foreign private finance to restart viable parts of the BH industrial
and commercial sector and thereby assist in restoring employment and production during a period
when BH was struggling to gain a measure of political stability in the immediate aftermath of a
destructive war. The objective included assisting BH enterprises to re-establish links with foreign
partners thereby diversifying their sources of supply and improving their access to markets. In
addition, the project would assist in promoting a transparent business climate in which the rule of
law prevailed.

Assessment of design and Quality at Entry

BH had a relatively well developed economy before the war ranking among the leaders of the
former socialist economies of Eastern Europe and well known as a reliable exporter of goods and
services, including capital goods. Project identification and design took place shortly after the end
of the war which devastated economic activity in BH. Industry was estimated to be operating at
5-15% of rated capacity at the close of the war. Notwithstanding this, much of the infrastructure
was in place or could be restored without major capital expenditure and a skilled and experienced
workforce was available to resume industrial activity.

Mitigating the perception of risk over which foreign entities had no control was to be achieved by
providing them with guarantees against an explicit list of non commercial events or circumstances
including the risk of resumption of war or civil commotion. By providing such guarantees, foreign
suppliers of goods and services on credit to Bosnian and Herzegovinan enterprises could focus on
the commercial aspects of a proposed transaction. A survey of potential foreign suppliers of credit
confirmed a reluctance to provide credit due to the perceived risk of a resumption of civil war or
actions by newly created governments that had no track record.

The mechanism for providing the guarantees was to set up an institution called the Investment
Guarantee Agency (IGA) to implement the project. The Investment Guarantee Agency was
incorporated as a joint stock company under the law of the Federation, one of the two entity
governments, but the sole shareholder was BH. Applications for guarantees were made to IGA
which would review them in accordance with an eligibility criteria set out in an operations manual.
If eligible, IGA would issue a guarantee which would then be referred to the ING Bank of
Amsterdam. ING Bank would issue a Standby Letter of Credit to the guarantee holder backing up
the liabilities assumed by IGA under its guarantee. The guarantee document provided for
arbitration in a neutral international venue in the event of a dispute over whether a claim had
become payable. The Standby Letter of Credit allowed a guarantee holder to claim under the
Standby Letter of Credit if IGA agreed that a claim is payable or if the guarantee holder was able
produce an arbitration award in its favor. World Bank and donor funds under the project were
used to support ING Bank's liability under a Standby Letter of Credit. Funds were deposited at
ING Bank covering these liabilities on a fully cash backed basis. Once liabilities under an issued
Guarantee had expired, the funds deposited at ING Bank would be available to cash back new
obligations under new transactions supported by a Standby Letter of Credit from ING Bank. The



                                                  - 2 -

procedures set out in the operations manual provided standard documents for most types of trade
transactions such as leases, sale of good on credit, letters of credit and confiscation of goods. The
text provided guidelines on the nature and function of each type of trade transaction, how to
identify which documents were appropriate and the procedures to be followed in the process of
issuing guarantees and standby letters of credit.

In 1999 the project was formally restructured to increase capacity. Whilst the restructuring
involved a change in the mechanism of providing the support, there was no change to the
development objective. At the time there was considerable activity and the view was that there
would be constraints on future activity if all guarantees had to be fully covered by cash from
World Bank and donor funds placed on deposit with ING Bank as was required under the original
design. The restructuring involved replacing the system described above under which ING backed
guarantees issued by IGA with standby letters of credit, with a partnership arrangement with a
group of Lloyd's of London insurance syndicates. IGA continued to administer the project and
receive and process applications, but no longer issued guarantees. Instead the guarantees became
insurance policies issued by the insurance syndicates. The syndicates were provided with partial
cash security (e.g.one third of liability under an insurance policy), by IGA placing World Bank
and/or donor funds in cash in an escrow account in London over which the insurers' had control,
and from which claims would be paid. If the value of a claim exceeded the cash in the escrow
account, the insurance syndicates met the claim from their own resources. In this manner, the
capacity of the project to offer effective guarantees against political risk in BH was increased
several times over without seeking additional IDA or donor funds. The mechanism also had the
advantage of attracting and supporting the private sector insurance industry into accepting BH
risk and thereby encouraging the market to undertake BH risk once the project closed,
unsupported by this World Bank project.


3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the project's development objective



3.3 Original Components:
There were two components of the project, the political risk guarantee facility and the provision of foreign
exchange for the purchase of critical imports. Other elements of project activity such as the development of
the institution, including technical assistance, financial management and start up operating costs and
equipment were financed by grants from bilateral grants from The Netherlands and USA.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project originally allowed for use of funds as foreign exchange for the purchase of critical
imports. No proposals were ever made for use of project funds for this purpose.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.

Consistency with the Bank's broadly based development assistance strategy



                                                      - 3 -

Since early 1995 the Bank Group had been deeply involved in developing a reconstruction
program for BH. The Bank was following a broad based assistance strategy with emphasis on
reconstruction of infrastructure and employment growth. By addressing concerns of foreign
private sector enterprises and financial institutions of unacceptable levels of risk over which they
had no control, the project would encourage these enterprises and financial institutions into
financing and supporting economic activity in BH at a faster rate than would have been the case
without the project. The projects development objective was therefore consistent with and
supported the Bank's broad based development assistance strategy.

Government priorities

One of the key objectives of the BH Government and the entity Governments was to restore
damaged infrastructure and employment in the post- conflict environment. The objectives and
design of the project in issuing guarantees against non-commercial risk were fully in line with
these priorities and helped to achieve this result.

Quality of design

The quality of design at entry is rated Highly Satisfactory.

The design also addressed the issue of credibility of the guarantee mechanism. By employing a
highly rated commercial bank to issue standby letters of credit backing up the guarantees issued
by IGA, potential guarantee holders were given the necessary assurance that valid claims would
be paid. When the project was restructured, the alternative mechanism that provided for highly
rated private sector insurance companies to be the issuer of insurance policies direct to
beneficiaries, also provided a credible mechanism upon which potential beneficiaries could rely
that a claim would be paid.

The quality of the design at entry was put to the test by the during the implementation period. The
system was put into place in a relatively short period of time without requiring a lengthy and
costly investment in developing highly specialized skills within the agency resulting in the staff of
the agency being able to review proposals, complete documentation and issue guarantees in an
efficient and timely manner.

The design also imposed strong incentives on BH and entity governments not to be the cause of a
claim by providing that payment of a claim for a "government performance" risk (i.e. all of the
defined risk descriptions other than a resumption of war or civil commotion), would be an event
of default under the Development Credit Agreement. This provision was backed up by each entity
Governments entering into a Cooperation agreement with BH to support the project and to be
responsible for reimbursing BH if a claim was paid due to any act or omission on its part.

Environmental

Environmental issues were dealt with by requiring the implementing agency to refuse cover when
the goods to be imported would not meet the Bank's or BH's environmental standards. A negative


                                                  - 4 -

list of banned pesticides, derived from the WHO categories of "Extremely Hazardous" materials
were also banned. As the implementing agency, IGA was required to obtain a certificate from an
Inspection agency for each application for a guarantee certifying that the goods included in the
application were not on the banned list or constitute hazardous materials. This certificate was
attached to a request to the Bank for no objection to the transaction.

Procurement

Goods were not financed by the Political Risk Guarantee Facility and procurement issues were
therefore considered to be outside the scope of the project. Financing of critical imports were to
be subject to standard World Bank guidelines but there was no activity under this component.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although the estimates of demand for political risk guarantees were not reached, IDA funds were
fully disbursed and revolved to support the resumption of business activity for a significant
number and value of transactions. Demand for guarantees was concentrated in a two to three year
period after experiencing a slow start up. Thereafter, demand declined significantly and did not
revive. During the life of the project, 26 guarantees/ insurance policies were issued mostly during
the "active period" totaling DEM 39,627,235 (Euro 20,261,083) in value.

The fall off in demand was not unexpected although it occurred somewhat earlier than expected.
The project was prepared on an emergency basis in an attempt to speed up the restart of industry
and production and it was expected that demand would decline once a measure of political and
economic stability had been achieved.

The list of projects that benefited from guarantee or insurance policies being issued to foreign
providers of goods and services were almost evenly split between the industry sector such as the
oil or wood industry and utilities involved in restoring infrastructure. Both were intended to
benefit from the project.

There are no performance indicators in the PAD. However, since the objective of the project was
to assist in restarting industry, fulfillment of the development objective should be measured by this
yardstick. Measuring this would not be easy since a number of the projects supported by
guarantees, such as reconstruction of the Sarajevo airport, indirectly assist in achieving this
objective. Furthermore, obtaining data from the BH enterprises that were the subject of the
guarantee or insurance was not possible at the time the guarantees or insurance policies were
issued as IGA was not permitted to disclose the existence of the insurance. Disclosure of the
insurance to the BH enterprise was the privilege of the guarantee holder or the insured, not of
IGA. However, some data has been obtained from BH enterprises recently after expiry of the
guarantees or policies of insurance and this included in Section 10, "Additional Information".

The projects supported by the facility were quite varied. For example, guarantees or insurance



                                                    - 5 -

policies supported the reconstruction of runways at the airport in Sarajevo, the supply of transport
vehicles for the oil and wood industries, and the construction of mini hydro-electric schemes to
restore power to areas badly affected by the war.

One of the objectives of the project was "promoting a transparent business climate in which the
rule of law prevails". This was to be achieved by creating an incentive for the State and entity
Governments not to cause a claim by acts or omissions within their control since causing a claim
would result in loss of funds belonging to these Governments. This objective was reinforced by
the entity and State Governments entering into a "Cooperation Agreement" whereby the entity
governments agreed, amongst other things, not to be the cause of a claim and to reimburse BH if
they did not live up to this obligation.

The facility has been claims free. However, one incident occurred which could have led to a claim
were it not for the intervention of IGA, the implementing agency, at a critical time. This involved
the actions of the customs authorities in Sarajevo in attempting to seize 20 trucks leased by Scania
of Sweden to a Bosnian enterprise. The purpose of the attempted seizure was to secure payment
of deferred import duties on the leased vehicles following repossession of the leased trucks by
Scania for non payment of lease payments by the lessee. The lease was the subject of a guarantee
by IGA and the guarantee covered unlawful seizure of goods by Government. Since the obligation
to make payment of the duties was imposed upon the lessee, the attempt to seize goods belonging
to the lessor was in contravention of the customs law of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Representations to the responsible minister by IGA prevented the seizure from taking place and
the trucks were allowed to leave Bosnia.


4.2 Outputs by components:
There was only one component using IDA funds, namely the Political Risk Guarantee Facility which is
commented on above.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The PAD did not list institutional development as an objective of the project. However, in order
to implement the project, the Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA) was incorporated as a joint
stock company under laws of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina wholly owned by BH.
The PAD envisaged that once obligations under issued guarantees had expired beyond the Closing
Date, funds employed under the facility would be used either for "financing critical imports for
industry based upon a positive list of imports and/or a new guarantee facility established by the
Government or IGA". As mentioned, IGA implemented the Emergency Industrial Restart Project
in a professional and timely manner and in this process developed skills relevant to operating a
more complex guarantee facility. IGA was rewarded by being selected to implement a subsequent
World Bank project known as the Enterprise Export Facility Project (P062936) approved on May
19, 1999. Funds that became available after closure of the Emergency Industrial Restart Project


                                                - 6 -

were then employed to support the activities of the Enterprise Export Project as well as being
eligible to support a continuation of the Emergency Industrial Restart Project. Activities under
the Enterprise Export Facility include short term credit insurance for essential inputs, credits and
guarantees to banks for working capital credits to enterprises engaged in exporting activity,
support to enterprises required to provide guarantees to overseas buyers as security for
performance of export contracts, and credit insurance. IGA has also implemented the Enterprise
Export Facility project in a professional manner to date and is developing into a mature and
effective export credit agency. The institutional development impact has been significant and
beneficial to the economy of BH.

It should also be noted that the facility has been claims free, resulting in disbursed IDA and donor
funds plus interest accumulated in escrow accounts being available for other purposes. These
funds are being applied by IGA, at BH's request and with Bank approval, for activities permitted
under the Enterprise Export Facility. The World Bank has also approved a request by BH to
transfer these funds to the balance sheet of IGA as equity, subject to their use being restricted to
activities authorized by the Emergency Industrial Restart Project or the Enterprise Export Facility.
Thus the project has been instrumental in creating and capitalizing BH's official export credit
agency, a permanent institution providing valuable support of trade into and out of BH.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor outside the control of the implementing agency was demand for guarantees. A demand
survey was carried out at appraisal of both enterprises inside Bosnia and Herzegovina and enterprises and
financial institutions outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, mostly from countries within the European Union.
Actual demand was not as strong as indicated in these surveys. It took about nine months from
commencement of operations until the first guarantee was issued. Thereafter, demand was strong during a
period of two to three years during which most of the 26 guarantees and insurance policies were issued.
Then contrary to expectations, demand fell significantly and remained depressed. The fall in demand was
no doubt due to the improved perception of BH as a place to do business. Under arrangements agreed
between BH and the Bank, IGA can continue to issue political risk insurance policies after the closing date
as well as use uncommitted funds in the Emergency Industrial Restart Project for other activities.
Notwithstanding this, IGA has not issued any guarantees or insurance policies since project closing
although there have been several inquiries for major projects.The decline in demand does not indicate
failure of the project. Indeed, the project design contemplated a fall in demand as a measure of political and
economic stability took hold in BH.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Once IGA had been created and a Board of Directors appointed, the role of BH Government and the entity
Governments was minimal. The agency operated independently in accordance with its charter and an
operations manual prepared for the agency during project preparation. The only significant involvement of
Government was when IGA appealed to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations over the
attempted seizure of trucks by the BH Customs Department, which is discussed in Section 4.1.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
IGA was charged with implementing the project. This involved both a marketing function and an
administrative function in processing and issuing guarantees and insurance policies in accordance with an



                                                      - 7 -

operations manual. IGA employed a marketing manager to actively market the facility. The marketing
function within BH consisted of a program of visiting enterprises, embassies, IFI's and banks and
organizing seminars in various parts of BH in conjunction with other relevant projects. Outside BH, IGA
worked with ING Bank, the Agent Bank that issued the Standby Letters of Credit backing up the
obligations of IGA under issued guarantees, in identifying and contacting many financial institutions that
were potential guarantee holders. In addition, IGA made direct contact with many foreign enterprises and
Chambers of Commerce.

The marketing function and the processing of guarantees and insurance policies were carried out by IGA in
a timely and professional manner.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$50.33 million but only US$15.33 million had been
identified at appraisal leaving a gap of US$35 million. Further funds were identified after appraisal in the
form of cofinancing from Sweden (US$1 million), Netherlands (US$1.5 million) and Japan (US$5 million),
totaling US$7.5 million.       .

Whilst all IDA funds were disbursed, only a portion of the cofinancing funds totaling US$6.403 million
were disbursed. Thus, the actual cost totaled US$16.403 million as described in Annex 2.

The project concept incorporated a component for "provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of
critical imports." There was no activity undertaken for the critical imports component and no estimation
during appraisal of use of funds for this component.

Demand for guarantees was significantly less than anticipated at time of appraisal. It should be noted,
however, that IDA funds and disbursed donor funds revolved, resulting in the value of issued guarantees
and insurance policies totaling Euro 20,261,083 compared with disbursed funds of Euro 14,968,620.

As discussed in Section 3.1, it was anticipated during the implementation period that demand for funds
would outstrip available funds notwithstanding the revolving nature of the facility. For this reason the
project was formally restructured in 1999 and the leveraging arrangement with the private insurance market
described in 3.1 put into effect. Had the anticipated demand materialized, the project would have been able
to cover the additional demand without increasing the project cost.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. The project was prepared on an emergency basis in an attempt to speed up
the restart of industry and production by allowing investors to focus on the commercial aspects of
transactions in the knowledge that they would be protected from loss arising from some non-commercial
factors which were outside their control, including the risk of a resumption of war or civil commotion. It
was expected that once Bosnia had regained a measure of economic and political stability the facility would
become irrelevant and both the PAD and the Credit Agreement provided for alternative uses of funds after
the Closing Date that had not been used to pay claims (i.e. to finance critical imports or for a new
guarantee facility, not necessarily confined to non commercial risk of BH).

As mentioned, the facility issued a total of 26 guarantees and insurance policies for a total value of Euro
20.261,033. Of the 26 guarantees and insurance policies issued under the facility, 20 were issued in the two
year period between the middle of 1997 and the middle of 1999. All but one of the guarantees and



                                                      - 8 -

insurance policies were issued in the three and a half year period from the middle of 1997 until the end of
2000. Thereafter, interest and demand fell almost completely.

Since the project was intended as an interim measure to encourage the restart of industry in a post conflict
situation, it can be said that sustainability was achieved since the project remained open until the perception
of risk that the project had been created to address had abated, indicated by the fall in demand for
guarantees.

There are two additional matters that are relevant to sustainability. The first is the value of the projects
themselves that have been supported by the guarantees, details of which are included in Annex 10. The
second is the development of the implementing agency into a viable permanent institution that has
implemented the Enterprise Export Facility (P062936) and functions as BH's official export credit agency
in a similar manner to agencies in many countries of the world, including all countries in South Eastern and
Central Europe other than Albania.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The objective of the project, to assist in restarting industry during a period of economic and political
instability in the post war period until a measure of political and economic stability returned to BH, was
achieved. There is no rationale for the project's future operation once demand for guarantees had abated
indicating that the perception of risk that the project was designed to deal with, had abated. However, the
project funds have been put to use in the successful conversion of IGA into BH's official export credit
agency. Details are set out in Sections 4.5 and 7.1. Review and monitoring of IGA's activities and use of
the funds have taken place in the context of the ongoing Enterprise Export Facility project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The objective of the project, to assist in restarting industry during a period of economic and political
instability in the post war period until a measure of political and economic stability returned to BH, was
achieved. There is no rationale for the project's future operation once demand for guarantees had abated
indicating that the perception of risk that the project was designed to deal with, had abated. However, the
project funds have been put to use in the successful conversion of IGA into BH's official export credit
agency. Details are set out in Sections 4.5 and 7.1. Review and monitoring of IGA's activities and use of
the funds have taken place in the context of the ongoing Enterprise Export Facility project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared in a relatively short time of five months in order to address the urgent need for
reconstruction of BH following the end of hostilities. An identification mission took place during the month
of May 1996 and an appraisal mission in July 1996.

Project preparation included demand surveys carried out both within BH and with potential investors and
banks located principally in the countries of the European Union, particularly Austria and Germany. The
Project required the creation of an agency within BH to process guarantee applications and issue
guarantees, a tender process for the appointment of an agent bank that would issue standby letters of credit
backing up the obligations assumed under the guarantees, and the negotiation of a Cooperation Agreement
between BH and the two entity Governments. The proceeds of the Credit were to be disbursed as
guarantees were issued and paid into an escrow account held at the Agent Bank. The Bank assisted the
Borrower in the preparation process by providing draft legislation for creation of the guarantee agency, in
preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between BH and the entity Governments, by reviewing and


                                                       - 9 -

assisting in the preparation of selection criteria for appointment of an agent bank and by employing an
expert to prepare a detailed operations manual including transaction documents applicable to the various
types of trade transactions that could be involved in a guarantee application.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision by the Bank included providing the Bank's no objection to all proposals to issue guarantees
after reviewing applications and the underwriting processes and the proposed terms of guarantees prepared
by the agency. This included reviewing certificates provided by a local inspection agency certifying that
any goods proposed for import as part of a guaranteed transaction were not prohibited or banned
substances. The Bank also employed an expert as a consultant resident in Sarajevo working on a full time
basis in the agency assisting the staff to process applications in the first few months of operation of the
facility. Bank personnel were also involved in training of staff in the commercial aspects of the transactions
that were submitted for support under the guarantee facility. Bank supervision was carried out in an
efficient and effective manner.
The project was restructured in 1999 in anticipation of increased demand that did not materialize. The
restructuring involved using the private trade credit insurance market to issue the guarantees or insurance
policies backed up by partial cash security lodged in escrow accounts under the control of the insurers.
Preparation included trust agreements securing the funds against attachment by third parties, a trade
finance facility agreement between the insurers and IGA and major amendments and negotiations with
insurers over the terms of the operations manual which determined detailed eligibility criteria and
procedures. The bank provided extensive support and assistance to IGA during this process.

There were no procurement issues as funds disbursed for guarantees were paid into an escrow account held
at the agent bank. Procurement of goods consisting of motor vehicle and office equipment and payment of
operating expenses in the start up period of the agency was paid out of a separate Dutch Grant
administered by the Borrower. The Bank reviewed the agencies annual operating budget.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation included creation of the implementing agency, negotiation of a Cooperation Agreement between
BH and each entity Government, a tender process to select the Agent Bank and the setting up of an escrow
account inside the Agent Bank into which World Bank funds were disbursed from the Credit Account. All
three Governments supported the preparation process in a timely and cooperative manner.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The agency was set up to act independently of government unless circumstances developed that could have
resulted in a claim. One incident occurred during implementation that required BH to take action to
prevent the incident from developing into a claim, involving the unlawful seizure of goods by the Customs
Department, as described in Section 4.1.Upon the request of IGA, the Minister of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations acted swiftly and decisively to prevent the unlawful seizure from taking place. Apart
from this incident, there was little involvement by Government in the activities of the Agency once the
project was effective. There were Government representatives on the Supervisory Board of the Agency.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
IGA implemented the project. The agency was staffed with a Director, a Marketing Manager, two Deputy
Directors, one located in Banja Luka, and an Office Manager. The agency was charged with marketing the
facility and processing guarantees backed up by Standby Letters of Credit issued by ING Bank, the Agent


                                                     - 10 -

Bank. After restructuring, the role of the agency was to receive and process applications and to send
proposals to the insurers for them to issue Policies of insurance. In both cases applications were processed
in accordance with eligibility criteria following procedures that were set out in a detailed operations manual
prepared by a consultant. IGA carried out this role in an efficient and timely manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based upon the performance of Government described above, the performance of the Borrower is rated as
satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agency should be considered as highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The agency was established by legislation and a staff of five persons were employed to implement
the project. A resident technical assistant was employed to assist the personnel in the agency in
developing the knowledge and skills to implement the project. At the end of this process, the staff
of the agency had acquired skills that were relevant to a more complex project of issuing
guarantees that supported commercial risk including commercial risk of banks lending to BH
enterprises and risk of non         payment of receivables of overseas buyers. The PAD and the
Development Credit Agreement provided that project funds could be used for a "guarantee
agency" after the Closing Date. The exact nature of the activities of the guarantee agency to be
carried out after the Closing Date was not specified in the PAD or Development Credit
Agreement but it was clearly contemplated by the project team during preparation that activities
of the agency after the Closing Date would include these types of commercial risk. This was
discussed and agreed with the BH Governments during the preparation process.

In retrospect, the agency should have been given the authority to use World Bank and donor
funds to guarantee activities involving commercial risk as well as non commercial risk. If this
broader mandate had been given at the outset, greater value would have been obtained from the
technical assistance provided to support the guarantee program for non commercial risk, all
available donor funds committed to the project would have been disbursed and the impact of the
project in developing trade and generating growth would have been greater.

This lesson has been applied in the design of the Export Finance Facilitation Project in Serbia and
Montenegro.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower provided the comments set out below by email through the Investment Guarantee
Agency, duly appointed by Minister Ljerka Maric, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BH. The
comments were discussed by Minister Maric, Ms. Lamija Kozaric chief executive officer of IGA
and Lloyd Edgecombe Task team Leader in Sarajevo on February 16, 2005 and approved by the
minister;

"We read the Report and agree with assessment that project has been implemented successfully.
The performance of the implementing agency as well the Bank performance was highly
satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

The purpose of the project is fulfilled as project supported industrial restart in post conflict BiH
indirectly, through insurance of equipment supply for reconstruction of infrastructure, as well as
directly, through insurance of equipment supply for reconstruction of companies.

Existence of such facility was very important at that time (1996-1999) as foreign suppliers
couldn't insure their trade to Bosnia and Herzegovina with their export credit agencies as BiH
was rated as"off cover country". So, companies as Siemens, Ericsson, Scania insured all their
trade to Bosnia and Herzegovina against non commercial risks through this facility, at that time.

Implementation of the Project developed IGA to a sustainable and independent institution which
has serviced the World Bank loan. Also, IGA as institution, profiled itself in business community
and become well known as political risk insurer in BiH. Through project implementation IGA
staff gained necessary technical knowledge in underwriting."


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Following is a list of guarantees/insurance policies provided under the project;


    Project                                  Guarantee/insurance         Amount (Euro)
                                             holder
1    Airport Sarajevo                        Parker Plant                              626,950
    Guarantee issued to cover medium
    term credit by Parker Plant of the
    UK for the sale of a machine to
    repair the war damaged runway at
    the airport at Sarajevo. The contract
    was performed by a local civil
    engineering company Bosnaputevi
    assisting this company to restart its
    business after the war. The company
    employed 50 workers in the
    reconstruction work Repair of the
    airport was essential to the
    resumption of commercial activity in
    Bosnia and Herzegovina.
2    Airport Sarajevo                        Richard Felsinger                          528,000
    Guarantee issued to provide risk of
    confiscation of specialized bitumen
    paving equipment to repair the
    runway at Sarajevo airport by


                                                - 12 -

 Bosnaputevi as described in
 guarantee number 1.
3 Medical equipment                     Siemens, Germany     1,247,188
 Guarantee issued to cover medium
 term credit to finance the supply of
 medical equipment to the medical
 authority in Sarajevo.
4 Lease of trucks                       Scania               1,526,206
 Guarantee to cover leasing payments
 by Scania of Sweden for lease of 20
 trucks with trailers to transportation
 company in the Federation. These
 trucks were repossessed and re leased
 to buyers in the Federation.
5 Manufacture of heating radiators Brugman                     520,438
 Guarantee to Dutch parent company,
 Brugman to cover working capital
 credit to BH subsidiary to allow
 resumption of pre war activity of
 manufacture of heating radiators for
 domestic and export markets. The
 company employed 30 workers after
 production re commenced
6 Mini Hydro Electricity                Siemens, Austria     1,533,876
 Guarantee to cover medium term
 credit for supply of equipment to
 Electroprivida BH for construction of
 mini hydro plant at Osanica to
 restore electricity supply to this war
 ravaged area. Civil works were
 carried out by Electroprivida.
7 Mini Hydro Electricity                Siemens, Austria     1,233,236
 Guarantee to cover medium term
 credit for supply of equipment to
 Electroprivida BH for construction of
 mini hydro plant at Modrac to restore
 electricity supply to this war ravaged
 area. Civil works were carried out by
 Electroprivida
8 Optical cables                        Gebauer & Griller    1,284,987
 Guarantee to cover a medium term
 credit to finance the supply by
 Gebauer & Griller of 600km of optic
 fibre cable for the reconstruction of
 long distance telecom lines.



                                           - 13 -

9  Hardware goods                        Ahsell                255,646
  Guarantee covering stocks of
  hardware delivered to warehouses in
  BH on consignment
10 Telecommunication equipment           R. S. Kabel         1,228,395
  Guarantee covering medium term
  credit for telecommunications
  equipment for capacity expansion.
11 Medical equipment                     Siemens, Germany    1,883,471
  Guarantee issued to cover medium
  term credit to finance the supply of
  medical equipment to medical
  authority in Banja Luka.
12 Telecommunication equipment           Ericsson            1,517,016
  Guarantee to cover medium term
  credit by Ericsson's of Sweden to
  finance the supply of PGS
  telecommunications equipment and
  associated software.
13 Insulators                            Porcelanfabrik        253,708
  Guarantee for medium term credit
  from Porcelanfabrik of Austria to
  finance ceramic insulators for building
  of transmission lines.
14 Trucks                                Scania                102,360
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden for lease of
  truck with trailer to forestry company
  in Tuzla in the Federation.
15 Coffee grinding machine               Probat Werke           61,043
  Guarantee for credit to supply coffee
  grinding mill to a buyer in the
  Federation.
16 Telecommunications                    Ericsson              711,572
  Guarantee to Ericsson of Sweden to
  cover medium term credit to supply
  PGS equipment and associated
  software allowing the telecom
  operator to rapidly expand the
  number of lines.
17 Telecommunications                    Ericsson            2,994,269
  Guarantee to Ericsson of Sweden for
  medium term credit to supply and
  install AXE-10 digital switching
  equipment and associated software.


                                            - 14 -

18 Leasing of trucks                      Scania       117,801
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to
  transportation company in Republika
  Srpska for lease of truck with trailer.
19 Leasing of trucks                      Scania       301,151
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden of two 25 ton
  capacity trucks to lessees in the
  Federation.
20 Leasing of trucks                      Scania        87,584
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to
  transportation company in Tuzla in
  the Federation of one 25 ton truck
  with trailer. The truck is reputed to be
  generating about Euros 35,000 per
  annum.
21 Telecommunications                     Ericsson     684,535
  Guarantee to Ericsson of Sweden to
  cover medium term credit to supply
  PGS equipment and associated
  software allowing the telecom
  operator to rapidly expand the
  number of lines.
22 Leasing of trucks                      Scania        78,228
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to a
  transportation company in Republika
  Srpska for lease of a single 20 ton
  truck reputed to be generating
  revenues of about 40,000 Euros per
  annum.
23 Leasing of trucks                      Scania       450,192
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to a
  transportation company in Republika
  Srpska. Each truck is reputed to be
  generating about 50,000 Euros in
  revenues per annum.
24 Leasing of trucks                      Scania       329,782
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to lessees in the
  Federation. This company leased
  numerous trucks to a total of nine



                                             - 15 -

  companies in both the Federation and
  Srpska. The trucks were used to
  permit transportation of timber logs
  and oil.
25 Leasing of trucks                   Scania      450,190
  Guarantee to cover leasing payments
  by Scania of Sweden to a civil
  engineering company located in the
  Federation of lease of five 25 ton
  trucks. Each truck is reputed to be
  generating over 30,000 Euros in
  revenues per annum.
26 Bakery equipment                    Benier      253,605
  Credit by Benier of The Netherlands
  to supply bakery equipment to a
  buyer in the Federation employing
  20 workers and processing 1500 -
  2000 kilograms of four per day.




                                         - 16 -

- 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A                            N/A                           N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A                            N/A                           N/A




1End of project




                                          - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Political risk guarantee facility                           50.00           17.73            35.46
Start up and marketing costs                                 0.33             0.03            9.09



Total Baseline Cost                                         50.33           17.76
                           Total Project Costs              50.33           17.76
                    Total Financing Required                50.33           17.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. start up and marketing            0.00           0.00         0.33          0.00         0.33
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.33)          (0.00)       (0.33)
5. political risk guarantee          0.00           0.00        50.00          0.00         50.00
facility                            (0.00)         (0.00)      (50.00)         (0.00)      (50.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00        50.33          0.00         50.33
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (50.33)         (0.00)      (50.33)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. start up and marketing            0.00          0.00         0.03           0.00        0.03
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.03)         (0.00)       (0.03)


                                                - 19 -

   5. political risk guarantee              0.00               0.00             17.76             0.00             17.76
   facility                                (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.76)            (0.00)           (17.76)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.00             17.79             0.00             17.79
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (17.79)            (0.00)           (17.79)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Start up and marketing          0.00         0.00         0.33        0.00         0.00       0.03        0.0      0.0       9.1
political risk guarantee       10.00         0.00        40.00       10.00         0.00       7.79       100.0     0.0      19.5
facility




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic or financial rate of return was calculated for this project as this would have had little
meaning, given that the nature and size of the projects that were covered for non commercial risk by
guarantees and insurance polices were not known at the time of preparation of the project .
Guarantees and insurance policies were issued for 100 percent of the value of a project. However, because
funds disbursed into the escrow account revolved i.e. were used to back up new guarantees once obligations
had expired under issued guarantees, the value of projects covered by the facility was greater than the total
of disbursed funds. As mentioned in Section 6.1 the value of guarantees and insurance policies issued under
the facility was Euro 20,261,083 but total disbursements were only Euro 14,968,671 (disbursed funds
include not only IDA funds but also donor funds from the Dutch, Swedish and Swiss Governments)

The last insurance policy has now expired and there are no claims. Thus the full amount of the disbursed
credit and grant funds have been preserved for the benefit of BH. These funds are being used by IGA for
the purpose authorized by BH and the World Bank, namely for any purpose authorized by the Enterprise
Export Facility project including working capital credits and guarantees to banks, credit insurance, and
support to BH exporters in providing contract bonds for export contracts. Funds can also be used for
issuing further guarantees against non commercial risk but there is no longer any demand for this product.

Operating costs of IGA attributable to administering the Emergency Industrial Restart Project during the
life of the project amounted to Euro 1,073,393. Risk premiums from issuing guarantees or insurance
policies amounted to Euro 878,978 , a deficit of Euro 194,415. The deficit on operations was financed
partly by a Dutch Grant and partly by absorbing these costs against revenues from operations available
under the Export Enterprise Facility project. However, interest income earned on disbursed funds held in
escrow accounts at ING Bank are Euro 1,498,836,36 as at the First GF Closing Date of December 31,
2001 after payment from this account of IDA service charges. This interest income was available to pay
claims and cover any deficit in operating costs. However, they were not needed for this purpose and were
allowed to accumulate until the Closing Date.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               05/20/1996                     Guarantee Specialist, Industrial       S               S
                                              Specialist, Senior Counsel,
                                              Country Counsel, Export Credit
                                              Specialist
                                                                                     S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/18/1996                     Guarantee Specialist,                  S               S
                                              Industrial Specialist, Senior
                                              Counsel, Country Counsel,
                                              Export Credit Specialist
                                                                                     S               S

 Supervision
                                              Senior Financial Specialist,
                                              Operations Officer, Financial
                                              Specialist, Financial
                                              Management Specialist
               02/07/1997                 3                                          S               S


 ICR
                                               Senior Financial Specialist           S               S
                                         1                                                           S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    N/A                             297.4
  Supervision                              N/A                             322.7
  ICR                                      N/A
  Total                                    N/A                             620.1




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Nil




                                      - 25 -

- 26 -

