Page  1
June 29, 1998
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
 Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Re:
Japanese Grant Emergency Industrial Restart Project
Grant Number TF024769
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding  five million United States Dollars ($5,000,000) (the 
Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purpose and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purpose 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof, upon receipt by IDA of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned as indicated below.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kurtovic
Authorized Representative(s)
Date(s):
June 29, 1998
ANNEX
1.
Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to cofinance the Emergency Industrial Restart 
Project - including a Political Risk Guarantee Facility (the Project) in the territory 
of the Recipient being: (a) financed by IDA, as administrator of the interim trust 
fund established with funds contributed by certain members of IDA pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of IDA, under an Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement (No. N001-0 BOS) (the DCA) entered into between Recipient 
and IDA on February 6, 1997; and (b) partially executed by the Investment Guarantee 
Agency (IGA), a legal entity established and operating under the laws and regulations 
of the Recipient, under a Project Agreement (the Project Agreement) entered into 
between IDA and IGA on February 7, 1997. The terms used herein in capital letters, 
unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the same meaning ascribed thereto in the 
DCA or the Project Agreement.
1.2.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
(a)
Provision of guarantees on account of Buyers against the following 
political and war risks: (a) Inability to Convert and Transfer Currency; (b) 
Expropriation; (c) Seizure of Goods; Prevention of Sale or Prevention of Export; (d) 
War or Civil Disturbance; (e) Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on Import and 
Export; (f) retroactive Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes; (g) Embargo; 
(h) Interference in the Carriage of Goods; and (i) Diversion of Voyage.
(b)
Reconstruction and development of industry through the provision of 
critical imports to BH industrial enterprises.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on 
the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to 
IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall cause IGA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of IGA therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IGA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance by IGA and with the fulfillment of 
the objectives of the Project.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, in case 
of Critical Imports, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the DCA and 
undertaken in a manner consistent with the provisions of the DCA.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
The provisions relating to the withdrawal of the Interim Fund Credit from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account as specified in Section 2.02 and Schedule 3 of the DCA 
shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the withdrawal of the amount of the Grant from the 
Grant Account.
(b)
The provisions relating to the withdrawal of any unwithdrawn Credit 
Amount as specified in Sections 2.02(c) and 3.03 of the DCA shall apply, mutatis 
mutandis, to the withdrawal of any unwithdrawan amount of the Grant in the Grant 
Account.
4.2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in such territories; (iv) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
Page  3
or (v) after December 31, 2003, or such later date as IDA shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be cancelled.
4.3.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies 
of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; 
(ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other 
entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or any development credit agreement with the IDA shall have been 
suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
