Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N001-0 BOS
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Industrial Restart Project - Including a Political Risk Guarantee Facility)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim trust 
fund established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of the International Development Association
Dated February 6, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N001-0 BOS
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1997, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower 
or BH) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and
(C)
the Administrator relying on the Borrower’s said commitment has agreed, 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to make available the Interim Fund Credit 
to the Borrower for Part A of the Project upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Administrator and IGA (the Project Agreement) and to provide such further assistance 
to the Borrower for Part B of the Project by extending the Interim Fund Credit in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Additional Escrow Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 3 
of Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Additional Escrow Amounts" means the amounts generated as interest and 
other earnings from the deposits in the Escrow Account and includes interest and other 
earnings generated from the deposits in the Additional Escrow Account.
(c)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
(i) of the Project Agreement.
(d)
"Agent Bank" means the agent bank of IGA referred to in Section 2.01 (b) 
(i) of the Project Agreement and includes any successor thereto or assignee thereof 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Administrator.
(e)
"Available Amount" means the amount equal to the amount of the Revolving 
GF Amounts on the First GF Closing Date.
(f)
"Buyer" means a natural or juridical person domiciled or registered in BH 
to whom Input Goods are provided by the Suppliers.
(g)
"Charter" means the founding charter, articles of incorporation and 
by-laws or other similar instrument of IGA registered with the BH High Court and 
includes the Borrower’s Decree No. 173 dated September 23, 1996, establishing IGA.
(h)
"Committed GF Amounts" means the sum of the Maximum Amount of Guarantee 
(as such term is defined in the General Conditions of Guarantee included in the 
Standard Form of Guarantee Contracts) under the Guarantee Contracts outstanding at any 
date.
(i)
"Cooperation Agreements" means the agreements entered into between the 
Borrower and the Federation and the Borrower and Republika Srpska pursuant to 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and "Cooperation Agreement" means either 
one of the said agreements.
(j)
"Covered Risks" means the risks specified in Part A.1 of the Project, as 
each of these risks is defined in the General Conditions of Guarantee included in the 
Standard Form of Guarantee Contract and covered by each Guarantee Contract and 
includes such other similar risks as may be agreed upon by the Administrator.
(k)
"Critical Imports" means the critical imports provided under Part B of 
the Project.
(l)
"DEM" means the lawful currency of the Federal Republic of Germany.
(m)
"Escrow Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement.
(n)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(o)
"First GF Closing Date" means the date specified in paragraph 2 of Part B 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(p)
"Foreign Exchange and Trade Policies" means the Borrower’s foreign 
exchange and trade policies specified in the Development Credit Agreement, dated 
September 6, 1996 between the Borrower and the Association in respect of the 
Transition Assistance Credit (CR. No. 2914 BOS).
(q)
"Guarantee Contract" means any of the contracts referred to in Section 
2.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement.
(r)
"Guarantee Facility" means the Guarantee Facility provided under Part A.1 
Page  3
of the Project.
(s)
"Guarantee Holder" means a natural or juridical person, domiciled or 
registered outside BH, who, having the risk of loss associated with the financing of 
the Input Goods, has been issued a Guarantee Contract by IGA in accordance with 
procedures set forth in paragraphs (a) through (e) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
(t)
"Input Goods" means the goods and/or services provided to a Buyer by a 
Supplier for the purpose of producing Output Goods or for the purpose of enhancing the 
Buyer’s production capacity.
(u)
"Investment Guarantee Agency" or "IGA" means the legal entity established 
and operating, under the laws and regulations of the Borrower, pursuant to the 
Charter, and includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the 
Administrator.
(v)
"Loss" means the amount denominated in DEM, payable to the Guarantee 
Holder upon occurrence of any of the Covered Risks in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the Guarantee Contract with such Guarantee Holder.
(w)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and includes any successor 
or successors thereto.
(x)
"Operations Manual" means IGA’s Operations Manual, dated October 12, 
1996, as approved by the Borrower and the Administrator, which sets out the operating 
policies and procedures of IGA.
(y)
"Output Goods" means goods produced by a Buyer in the territory or 
territories of BH using the Input Goods.
(z)
"Payment" means any payment made to a Guarantee Holder by the Agent Bank 
on account of a Loss.
(aa)
"PMAU" means the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit of the Borrower 
established to monitor and audit procurement activities under projects financed, 
cofinanced and administered by the Association and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development in the territories of the Borrower.
(bb)
"Positive List" means the list or lists of goods agreed or to be agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Administrator as specified in Section 3.03(a)(iv) and 
paragraph 2(a)(iv) of Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(cc)
"Revolving GF Amounts" means the Unpaid GF Amounts that are retained in 
the Escrow Account following the expiry or termination of Guarantee Contracts and, 
before the First GF Closing Date, used on a revolving basis for the purpose of 
providing new guarantees under the Guarantee Facility pursuant to paragraph 3 of Part 
B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(dd)
"RS" means Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of the Borrower, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto.
(ee)"Second GF Closing Date" means the date 180 days following the date on which 
the last outstanding Guarantee Contract issued under the Guarantee Facility has 
expired or terminated in accordance with its terms.
(ff)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986).
(gg)
"Standard Form of  Guarantee Contract" means IGA’s Standard Form of 
Guarantee Contract including the General Conditions of Guarantee, dated October 12, 
1996, as approved by the Borrower and the Administrator, which contains all the 
standard terms and conditions to be included in the Guarantee Contracts.
(hh)
"Supplier" means a natural or juridical person domiciled or registered 
outside BH who provides the Input Goods to a Buyer.
(ii)
"Unpaid GF Amounts" means the Committed GF Amounts that remain unpaid at 
the expiry or termination of the Guarantee Contracts covered thereby.
(jj)
"Unwithdrawn Credit Amount" means the amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
Page  4
remaining unwithdrawn in the Interim Fund Credit Account after the First GF Closing 
Date.
(kk)
"War or Civil Disturbance" means acts of war (whether declared or 
undeclared), revolution, insurrection, civil war or civil strife of a lesser degree, 
on the territory of BH, where such acts are undertaken with the primary intent of 
achieving a political objective. Acts undertaken to further labor, student or other 
specific interests and acts of terrorism, kidnapping or similar acts directed against 
the guarantee holder shall not qualify for coverage as civil disturbance.
(ll)
"Withdrawn Credit Amounts" means the amounts withdrawn from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Escrow Account, from time to time, for the 
purpose of providing guarantees under the Guarantee Facility.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account for the purposes of and in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through IGA, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the 
Project, open and maintain in DEM an escrow account in the Agent Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Escrow Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Any Unwithdrawn Credit Amount may be withdrawn for the purposes of and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed 
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2007, and ending October 
15, 2031. Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 
2016, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
Page  5
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment  not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
(6) months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The General Director of IGA, or one of his/her deputies, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02(a) of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts IGA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Interim Fund Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to 
be furnished to the Administrator in support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) 
carry out Part B of the Project, through MOF, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial and economic management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IGA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of IGA therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IGA to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance by IGA and with the fulfillment of 
the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to 
ensure that IGA shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement and the Guarantee Contracts in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower, the Administrator and IGA and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
Page  6
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, after the First GF Closing Date, be entitled 
to withdraw the Unwithdrawn Credit Amount for the purposes of financing Critical 
Imports, subject to the following provisions: 
(a)
No withdrawal of the Unwithdrawn Credit Amount shall be made unless the 
Administrator is satisfied (i) after an exchange of views as described in Section 4.01 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of its Foreign Exchange and 
Trade Policies; (ii) that claims pursuant to guarantees under the Guarantee Facility 
have not exceeded one million DEM at any time; (iii) that there has been no suspension 
of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions at any time for reasons other than 
War or Civil Disturbance; and (iv) that a positive list of goods to be financed by the 
Unwithdrawn Credit Amount has been furnished by the Borrower and approved by the 
Administrator;
(b)
if, after the exchange of views pursuant to Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Administrator shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of its Foreign Exchange and Trade 
Policies is not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Administrator, then the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the Unwithdrawn Credit Amount or 
any part thereof;
(c)
if the Administrator shall have determined at any time that the 
Unwithdrawn Credit Amount withdrawn under this Section has been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure on goods not included in the Positive List, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator refund such amount to the Administrator. 
Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be credited to the 
Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation; and
(d)
except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about November 15, 1998, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by December 31, 1998, or such later date 
as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the expiry of the 
Guaranty Facility or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of 
the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall coordinate with the PMAU for purposes of 
procurement monitoring and audit of the Project.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants in Respect of Part B of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the implementation by the Borrower of 
its Foreign Exchange and Trade Policies.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the status of implementation of 
its Foreign Exchange and Trade Policies, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
IGA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
IGA or the Agent Bank shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Agency Agreement;
(c)
any of the parties to the Cooperation Agreements shall not have complied  
with any of the provisions under their respective agreement;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that IGA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or IGA and the Agent Bank will be able to perform their respective 
obligations under the Agency Agreement;
(e)
the occurrence of War or Civil Disturbance;
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of IGA or for the suspension of its 
operations;
(g)
any provision of the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the 
Administrator;
(h)
any material or substantial provision of the Operations Manual shall have 
been amended without the prior written consent of the Administrator;
(i)
any provision of the Standard Form of  Guarantee Contract shall have been 
amended without the prior written consent of the Administrator;
(j)
any provision of the Agency Agreement shall have been amended, assigned, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the 
Administrator;
(k)
the Agent Bank shall have made a Payment to a Guarantee Holder on behalf 
of IGA with the funds deposited by the Administrator into the Escrow Account for that 
purpose; or
(l)
the Borrower shall have introduced a material reversal of its Foreign 
Exchange and Trade Policies.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) or 
(l) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Agency Agreement has been executed and delivered on behalf of IGA and 
the Agent Bank; and
(b)
at least one of the Cooperation Agreements has been entered into between 
the parties thereto in accordance with paragraph 6 of Part A of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by IGA 
and is legally binding upon IGA in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Cooperation Agreement, entered into pursuant to Section 6.01(b) 
of this Agreement, has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms.
(c)
that the Agency Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by IGA and 
the Agent Bank and is legally binding upon IGA and the Agent Bank in accordance with 
its terms;
(d)
that the Guarantee Contracts, when executed and delivered by the 
respective parties thereto based on the Standard Form of Guarantee Contract, will be 
legally valid and binding upon the respective parties thereto in accordance with their 
respective terms; and
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.05.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09(a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Danijela Ozme 7
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association and the Administrator:
Page  9
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Alija Izetbegovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
  with funds contributed by certain members of the
  International Development Association pursuant to
  Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
  of the International Development Association
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist BH and its industrial and commercial 
enterprises restart viable parts of industry and production by: (i) attracting foreign 
private finance for working capital and short to medium-term investments in respect of 
the production of goods; and (ii) providing foreign exchange for the purchase of 
critical imports for industry, in the territories of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Guarantee Facility and Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of guarantees on account of Buyers against the following political and 
war risks: (a) Inability to Convert and Transfer Currency; (b) Expropriation; (c) 
Seizure of Goods; Prevention of Sale or Prevention of Export; (d) War or Civil 
Disturbance; (e) Cancellation of Licenses and Restrictions on Import and Export; (f) 
retroactive Imposition or Increase of Import or Export Taxes; (g) Embargo; (h) 
Interference in the Carriage of Goods; and (i) Diversion of Voyage.
2.
Provision of information and brokerage services to help industrial and 
commercial enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina transact business with foreign 
partners.
3.
Strengthening of IGA through the provision of goods, services, and operating 
costs including salaries of IGA staff.
Page  10
Part B:
Critical Imports
Reconstruction and development of industry through the provision of critical 
imports to BH industrial enterprises.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, except 
as otherwise provided herein, means the International Development Association acting 
as Administrator of the Interim Fund referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and "Participating Countries" 
means, collectively, all such countries."
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be made in the currency 
of the Escrow Account specified in Section 2.02(b) of the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement.";
(f)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit from the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and of these 
General Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or for 
goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the  purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited 
by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the 
Charter of the United Nations.";
(g)
At the end of Section 6.01, following the words "Section 5.02" the words 
"or in respect of which a Guarantee Contract (as such term is defined in the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement) has been issued and remains outstanding" are added;
(h)
In Section 6.02, at the end of the first phrase which precedes 
sub-paragraph (a), ending with the word "Account", the words "with respect to any 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit which has not been committed under a Guarantee 
Contract (as such term is defined in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement)" 
are added;
(i)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
Page  11
own capacity;
(j)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project's costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and Appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.";
(k)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the expiry of the Guaranty Facility 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator 
a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the implementation of the Foreign Exchange and Trade 
Policies, the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their 
respective obligations under the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and 
the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit."; and
(l)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
SCHEDULE 3
Withdrawals and Escrow Account
Part A:
General
1.
The Escrow Account shall be in the form of an interest bearing trust account for 
the purposes of the Project.
2.
The Committed GF Amounts shall be used exclusively to make Payments in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Schedule. The Revolving GF Amounts 
shall be used exclusively to finance Critical Imports or a new guarantee facility 
established by the Borrower or IGA subject to the terms and conditions and in 
accordance with the procedures specified in Part C of this Schedule. 
3.
All Additional Escrow Amounts shall be deposited and kept separately in an 
additional interest bearing trust account in the form of an escrow with the Agent Bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
4.
The Additional Escrow Amounts shall be used exclusively for the purposes of the 
Project as specified in Part D of this Schedule.
5.
The Committed GF Amounts and the Additional Escrow Amounts may, pending 
utilization as specified in paragraphs 2 and 4 hereof, be used for investments for 
which prior written approval has been obtained from the Administrator.
6.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no deposits shall be made 
Page  12
in the Escrow Account in respect of any Guarantee Contract issued on account of any 
enterprise located in the Federation or RS unless: (a) in respect of enterprises 
located in the Federation, a Cooperation Agreement has been entered into between the 
Borrower and the Federation, (b) in respect of enterprises located in RS, a 
Cooperation Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and RS,  on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, whereunder the Federation and RS shall 
respectively have, inter alia, undertaken to: (i) implement the Foreign Exchange and 
Trade Policies of the Borrower, (ii) refrain from interfering with transactions 
covered by IGA, (iii) accept liability to the Borrower for any Loss that each might 
cause, (iv) enable IGA to carry out its operations in accordance with the Operations 
Manual, and (v) agree to share between themselves  the goods imported under Part B of 
the Project; and (c) evidence, satisfactory to the Administrator has been furnished to 
the Administrator, in respect of the execution and validity of the respective 
Cooperation Agreements.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Escrow Account and the Additional Escrow Account for each fiscal 
year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator who shall be employed by 
November 30, 1997, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the Escrow 
Account and the Additional Escrow Account and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested.
Part B:
Guarantee Facility
1.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Escrow 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of amounts from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account for deposit in the Escrow Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Agent Bank, acting on behalf of IGA, shall furnish to the 
Administrator, upon receipt of a Guarantee Contract and the payment of the guarantee 
fee payable thereunder, either a request for a deposit of an amount to cover the 
initial maximum amount guaranteed thereunder if there are no Revolving GF Amounts 
available, or a request for a deposit of the balance amount required to cover the 
initial maximum amount guaranteed thereunder if there are insufficient Revolving GF 
Amounts available. On the basis of such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit in the Escrow 
Account such amount as the Agent Bank shall have requested.
(b)
For each Payment made by the Agent Bank, on behalf of IGA, out of the 
Escrow Account and/or Additional Escrow Account in accordance with the terms of the 
Agency Agreement, the Borrower shall cause IGA, at such time as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, to furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence showing that such Payment was made exclusively on account of a Loss.  
(c)
(i) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
disbursement out of the Escrow Account: (i) was made for other 
than making a Payment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) refund to the 
Administrator an amount equal to the amount of such Payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(ii)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Escrow Account will not be required to 
cover further Payments, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(iii)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Escrow Account.
Page  13
(iv)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraphs 
(c)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this paragraph shall be credited to the 
Interim Fund Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
2.
No withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account for deposit in the Escrow 
Account shall be made after December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Administrator 
shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
3.
Unpaid GF Amounts shall be retained in the Escrow Account and, before the First 
GF Closing Date, shall be used on a revolving basis for the purpose of providing new 
guarantees under the Guarantee Facility.
Part C:
Financing Critical Imports and/or New Guarantee Facility
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Part, the Borrower 
shall, for the purposes of financing: (i) Critical Imports, and/or, (ii) if deemed to 
be justified by the Administrator under the circumstances existing at the time, and 
(iii) a new guarantee facility established by the Borrower or IGA, be entitled to 
obtain the release of the Available Amount after the First GF Closing Date and the 
balance remaining in the Escrow Account after the Second GF Closing Date.
2.
(a)
No release of the Available Amount or balance thereof shall be made from 
the Escrow Account unless the Administrator is satisfied: (i) after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 4.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Administrator, with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of 
its Foreign Exchange and Trade Policies; (ii) claims pursuant to guarantees under the 
Guarantee Facility have not exceeded one million DEM at any time; (iii) there has been 
no suspension of the Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions at any time for reasons 
other than War or Civil Disturbance, and, if the release is intended to finance 
Critical Imports; and (iv) a positive list of goods to be financed by the Available 
Amount or balance thereof has been furnished by the Borrower and approved by the 
Administrator;
(b)
if, after the exchange of views pursuant to Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Administrator shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of its Foreign Exchange and Trade 
Policies is not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Administrator, then the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, require the Available Amount after the 
First GF Closing Date or the balance remaining in the Escrow Account after the Second 
GF Closing Date to be refunded to the Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation;
(c)
if the Administrator shall have determined at any time that the Available 
Amount or balance thereof released under this Section has been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure on goods not included in the Positive List, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator refund such amount to the Administrator. 
Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request shall be credited to the 
Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation;
(d)
in case of Critical Imports, except as the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and
(e)
in case of the new guarantee facility, except as the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, the funds made available pursuant hereto shall be used in accordance 
with the procedures acceptable to the Administrator, including the procedures outlined 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and the Operations Manual. 
3.
The Available Amount or balance thereof shall only be released by the Agent Bank 
upon certification by the Administrator that the provisions of paragraph 2(a) have 
been satisfied.
Part D:
Additional Escrow Amounts
1.
The Additional Escrow Amounts or part thereof shall, until the expiry of the 
First GF Closing Date, be used only for: (a) provision of guarantees on a revolving 
basis under the Guarantee Facility; or (b) expenditures made (or, if the Administrator 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
Page  14
required for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project. Thereafter, the Additional Escrow 
Amounts or remaining balance thereof shall be released to the Borrower at the request 
of the Borrower.
2.
Goods and services for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule, goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than the $50,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  15
With respect to each contract procured under Section I, Part B, Part C.1 and 
Part C.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Eligibility Restrictions
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; 
consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders 
offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for 
such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
