[~~BDJ~  ~~f~[~             Document of
COPU          The WorR Bank
Ima OIlClAL USE ONLY!
A  !ReNpo No. P-2000a-MAU
itEPWS DESK1
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITINIA
FOR THE
SONADER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 17, 1977
West Africa Regional Office
'MO d=uwaam   mm(0 dbmonri onrm Imiioy be uised by FociJlfieots OoniY ~n Ae jeRfqo~mmoce off
abol                       mafol~i~.l~coQn  ny MegQ cAbemse be daseod ooen tnoua WolrD IB3on onfbowfiezoimn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00         = UM 45
UN 1            = US$0.22
UN 1 million    = US$22,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     2    = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)           =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)               = 0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE    - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Agency
EEC     - European Economic Community
FAC     - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED     - Fonds Europeen de Developpement
KFAED   - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MIFERMA - Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
SOMIMA - Societe Miniere de Mauritanie
SONADER - Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
ranuary 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA FOR
THE SONADER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of US$3.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the SONADER Technical
Assistance Project. The entire amount of the credit will be onlent to SONADER
under the same terms and conditions.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects of
Mauritania" (243-MAU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 9,
1974. A mission visited Mauritania in December 1975 at the invitation of the
Government to comment on a draft Five-Year Plan then under preparation; its
findings are included in this report. Country Data appear in Annex I.
Background
3.        Mauritania is an extreme case of a dual economy with little inter-
action between the modern sectors (mining, fish processing industry, public
administration) and the traditional sectors (livestock, agriculture and
traditional fishing). Productivity levels in these two sectors are widely
divergent: about 75 percent of the population is active in the traditional
sectors but contributes less than a quarter to Gross Domestic Product at fac-
tor cost. Most of the country is desert; the bulk of the rural population
is located in the South along the northern bank of the Senegal River, where
soil and rainfall conditions permit agricultural and pastoral activities.
Elsewhere, economic activity centers around Nouakchott, the capital, and
Nouadhibou, an effectively isolated port serving the mining activities in
the North and containing some fish processing plants.
4.        The country is endowed with some natural resources, most notably
large iron ore and copper deposits, fertile land along the Senegal River
Valley, and exploitable fishing grounds in territorial waters all along its
Atlantic Coast. However, development of these resources is hampered by the
large distances separating the centers of economic activity and the accom-
panying prohibitive costs of transport, by the harsh Sahelian climate with
low and irregular rainfall even in the South, and perhaps most importantly,
by the lack of skilled manpower at all levels--adult literacy and school
enrollments are among the lowest in the world.
5.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with France and the French speaking African countries south of the
Sahara; recently, however, it has established close relations with some of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
its North African neighbors as well as with the Arab OPEC countries. In June
1972, it asked for revision of the 1961 Cooperation Treaty with France in the
economic, monetary, technical, cultural, and military fields; a new agree-
ment was reached in February 1973, except in monetary affairs. As a result,
Mauritania left the West African Monetary Union and the Franc zone and estab-
lished its own central bank and introduced its own currency, the Ouguiya,
in June 1973, with financial support from Arab OPEC countries. However, it
still maintains good economic relations with its West African neighbors and
is a member of OMVS (Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal)
and of the Economic Community of West Africa.
6.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, Mauritania and Morocco divided the administration of the territory
between them, with that part south of the 24th parallel to be administered
by Mauritania. The population of the Mauritanian part is estimated at only
about 30,000; even so, the extension of Mauritanian administration i-nto this
territory is straining the Government's limited domestic resources, b-oth fi-
nancial and human. Except for rich coastal fishing grounds, and discounting
minerals yet to be located, the resources of the part of the former Spanish
Sahara administered by Mauritania are limited. In its Third Development Plan
(1976-1980) Mauritania has included a special allocation of $22 million (2.5
percent of total planned investment) for the territory.
Past Developments
7.        Between 1960 and 1968, the Mauritanian economy grew at 10 percent
annually in real terms, mainly due to a rapid expansion of the mining sector.
But, since then, growth has slowed down to 3-4 percent per year as a result of
unfavorable developments, most of which, however, were beyond the control of
the Government. Industrial production continued to increase, albeit more
slowly than before, with the expansion of capacity of the iron ore mine and
the exploitation of copper deposits, but agricultural output, struck by the
Sahelian drought, decreased by 70 percent from 1970 to 1973, while livestock
herds were substantially reduced. Thousands of people have been forced to
seek refuge in the towns; unable to find work in the modern sectoro many
have turned to the informal sector for opportunities or have remained unem-
ployed. A recovery set in around 1974 and economic activity was slowly
returning to normal when the doubling of the price of petroleum products
together with rises in other import prices put pressure on the balance of
payments and set the economy on an unprecedented inflationary path. Like
other Sahelian countries, the ability of Mauritania to respond to the new
situation was limited. Control of aggregate demand and marginal adjustments
in fiscal or monetary policies proved to be inefficient in restoring balance
of payments and budgetary equilibria.  More than in the past, ,stabilization
of the economy, a pre-condition for viable economic growth in the future,
had to come from abroad. In this respect, Mauritania was fortunate to
receive substantial financial assistance during the past few critical years.
Capital inflows in 1973 and 1974, mostly balance of payments support and
project aid from OPEC countries, outstripped the current account deficits,
leading to a build-up of foreign exchange reserves. In 1975, for the first



-3-
time since 1970, the balance of paymenes registered a deficit as a result
of unfavorable copper prices and a drop of iron ore exports due to slacken-
ing demand.
8.        Around the end of 1974 the two foreign-controlled mining companies
(MIFERMA iron ore, SOMIMA copper) were nationalized. In the case of MIFERMA,
this reflected domestic pressures for greater Mauritanian control over an
economic sector that generates 80 percent of foreign exchange earnings and
finances more than 50 percent of total investments, as well as a concern
that a large share of the proceeds was being diverted abroad at the expense
of the country's development. Takeover did not jeopardize Mauritania's good
relations with the former private shareholders who have provided substantial
technical assistance to the mine and continued to purchase a large share of
its production. In the case of SOMIMA, the government took over after the
private sponsor had already decided to close down the mine because of mount-
ing technical and financial problems..
9.        As of December 31, 1975 Mauritania's external public debt outstand-
ing and disbursed amounted to $155 million and most of this was incurred at
low interest rates and with repayment periods of more than 20 years. So far
servicing the debt has not been a drain on domestic resources, and net public
savings (after debt payments) were able to contribute 20 percent of the fi-
nancing of public investment programs. In 1975, following a slight decline
in budgetary revenues (due to lower mining revenues) and a sharp increase in
current expenditures reflecting the impact of a general salary increase and
higher inflation, the current budget surplus was substantially reduced and
the Government had to draw down its reserves to supplement the inflows of
fresh capital destined to finance public investments.
Strategy and Prospects
10.       The Government's economic policy in the first decade after indepen-
dence focused on the development of urban and transport infrastructure in an
effort to equip Mauritania with a modern capital and the facilities needed
to run the country and decrease the dependence of Mauritania on Senegal for
the transport of goods into and out of the country. Thus, about 80 percent
of public investments between 1963 and 1972 were absorbed by projects in the
transport and urban sectors. Even though public investments increased con-
siderably during this period, averaging some US$15 million p.a. in 1970-74
or 6 percent of GDP, investments outside infrastructure have remained small
because of the limited capacity of government services to identify, prepare,
and execute, under difficult conditions, projects in such key sectors as
agriculture, livestock and education.
11.       In spite of these difficulties the Government's future strategy,
as reflected in the Third Plan (1976-80), will accord increasing priority
to developing the country's natural resources in livestock, agriculture,
and fisheries. Indeed, the number of projects already under consideration
in the rural sector indicates that a larger share of public investments would
be devoted to this sector than in the past. The development of irrigated



-4-
agriculture in particular is expected to play an important role in ensuring
that the consequences of a recurrence of the recent drought would not be so
drastic.
12.       Continued growth in the modern sector will also be essential to
improve the public finance situation and to provide a part of the resources
needed to finance investment and recurrent expenditures in the rural sector.
However, while new iron ore investments are planned, mining alone cannot pro-
vide employment for more than a very small fraction of Mauritania's active
population and its indirect effects on the rest of the economy will continue
to remain limited. Similarly, establishment of manufacturing industries
cannot raise the standard of living for the mass of the Mauritanian popula-
tion, as high production and transport costs, limited skilled manpower, and
small local markets severely limit possibilities.
13.       During the Third Plan period, growth in the modern sector could
average 5 percent per annum, with iron ore mining and fish processing being
the main motors of expansion.   Development of the rural sector, on the other
hand, will probably not exceed 2-3 percent annually as the reconstitution of
the livestock herds will be a slow process and the effects of the investments
undertaken in the agricultural sector will only be felt after a substantial
lag.  Therefore, the overall growth of the economy would be in the neighbor-
hood of 4 percent per year and will only result in a slow improvement in
the level of income of the Mauritanian population. The use of mining reve-
nues to broaden the productive base and accelerate structural changes should
result in higher growth in the longer run.
Balance of Payments Prospects and the Need for External Assistance
14.       At this juncture prospects for the current account of the balance
of payments appear particularly uncertain. While in contrast to many African
countries, the outlook for Mauritania's export prices is reasonably favorable,
the pace at which it can increase the volume of both exports (minerals, beef,
and fish) and import substitutes (food crops) is severely constrained by
physical factors as well as cost considerations.
15.       On the other hand, prospects for a high inflow of foreign capital
are good. Mauritania has raised substantial amounts of foreign capital assis-
tance over the past few years--$300 million between 1973 and 1975, of which
about half was for drought relief and balance of payments support. Govern-
ment's Third Plan (1976-80), which comprises a list of projects totaling some
$900 million in 1975 dollars, reflects the expectation that these generous
aid flows will continue; indeed, Government claims to have nearly $250 million
already committed for projects to be implemented during the Third Plan period
(of this, about $100 million is committed to the Nouakchott-Nema road project).
About two-thirds of the large inflows between 1973 and 1975 were provided by
Arab OPEC countries, and the bulk of the anticipated commitments for the Third
Plan period are from the same sources.



- 5 -
16.       The size of the public investment program is in large part attribu-
table to the inclusion of major investments in such capital-intensive sectors
as mining, mineral processing and basic transport infrastructure. In addi-
tion, however, the government plans to spend nearly one-third of total plan
outlays for the rural sector and social infrastructure (mainly education),
sectors which are particularly demanding in terms of project identification
and preparation. Thus, whether Mauritania will be able to absorb the amounts
of foreign aid needed over the next five years will depend to a large extent
on Government's ability to improve the preparation and implementation of the
projects for which this aid is destined. In any case, the availability of
local financing is expected to remain severely limited. Even assuming con-
tinuing tight budgetary policies, the increase in current expenditures neces-
sitated by the administration of part of the former Spanish Sahara coupled
with the higher debt service obligations resulting from the MIFERMA compen-
sation package and other new borrowing will preclude Government from contri-
buting more than 10-15 percent to the financing of its investment program.
External lenders will therefore have to finance a high portion of project
costs, including a share of local costs.
17.       As mentioned before, Mauritania has an urgent need to step up
public investments substantially. To start with, a considerable amount of
investments will be needed just to prevent mining production from falling;
to achieve some real growth, considerable additional investments will be
necessary. Considering the country's general poverty, its strong reliance
on a single export product, and the long gestation period of many of the
most important projects included in the Plan, Mauritania can only afford the
necessary amount of borrowing if most of the foreign capital becomes avail-
able at concessionary terms; otherwise debt service would almost certainly
exceed 10 percent of export earnings by 1980 and increase rapidly thereafter.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
18.       The Bank Group has participated in the financing of eleven opera-
tions in Mauritania. Total lending amounts to US$121.0 million. The first
operation was a Bank loan of US$66.0 million for the MIFERMA iron ore mining
operation in 1960. Nine others are IDA credits totalling US$32.3 million.
Four of these operations are in the transportation sector: US$6.7 million
in FY66 for the construction of the Nouakchott-Rosso road; US$3.0 million in
FY69 for a four-year road improvement and maintenance program; US$3 million
in FY75 for another six-year follow-up to the first maintenance program; and
US$8 million in FY76 for the enlargement of the Nouadhibou Port. Three oper-
ations are in the rural sector: US$4.2 million for livestock development in
FY72; US$2.5 million for a drought relief fund project in FY73; and US$1.1
million for the Gorgol irrigation engineering project in FY74. One operation
is in the education sector amounting to US$3.8 million in FY74 and one is a
US$2.7 million Technical Assistance operation to the Ministry of Planning
in FY77. In 1968, IFC made a loan to and an equity investment in SOMIMA, a
copper mining company, which totalled US$20 million; this IFC participation
and the accompanying loan were paid back when the Government nationalized



- 6 -
SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1976, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
19.       Implementation of these projects has often been retarded because
of cumbersome Government administrative procedures. The combination of
administrative delays and those due simply to the exceptionally difficult
conditions prevailing in Mauritania (very unfavorable climate, huge dis-
tances separating the few population centers, inadequate or nonexistent
transport network, and a general lack of trained manpower) has led, in a
period of high inflation and adverse changes in exchange rates, to cost
overruns on nearly all of the projects financed in the period from FY69
to FY75. The scope of many of these projects has, of necessity, had to be
reduced accordingly to stay within the financial envelope provided.
20.       Government is acutely aware of the problems it is encountering
in project execution. The recently approved technical assistance project
to the Ministry of Planning is an important part of Government's program
to overcome these problems; by strengthening Government's project prepara-
tion capacity and by providing for monitoring of project execution on a
more systematic basis, the project will help Government anticipate problems
in project implementation and take steps to deal with them before they occur.
To circumvent some of its own administrative procedures and to help reduce
the high cost of civil works through increased domestic capacity on force
account, Government has recently set up a new autonomous public company,
SONADER, to implement rural development projects, particularly those in-
volving irrigation. SONADER is as yet untested and will need considerable
assistance, material and human, before it will be able to carry out its
assigned tasks. The proposed Technical Assistance described in this report
is designed to provide the additional key personnel, the project preparation
and supervision expertise and the training of Mauritanian staff, needed to
make SONADER a going concern.
21.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Economic Community (19 percent). Given the
rapidly growing external financial assistance available to Mauritania, the
role of the Bank Group is likely to change somewhat over the coming years,
with increased emphasis on technical assistance and on a possible role as
catalyst for cofinancing arrangements, both with traditional donors and with
Arab OPEC countries.
PART III: THE RURAL SECTOR AND THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
22.       Since independence Mauritania has made significant efforts to
train skilled high-level nationals needed to manage and develop the country,
but the demands for such personnel have grown even faster than the supply.
Now, as the Government is about to embark on a major effort to develop the
rural sector with a view to reducing the country's dependence on imports



- 7 -
and to ensuring for farmers a steady income as free as possible from the
vagaries of climatic conditions, the shortage of people who are able to
identify, evaluate and supervise the execution of projects is more acute.
The proposed project is designed to provide the Government with some of the
additional key personnel needed to carry out its investment program in the
rural sector.
23.       Developing the rural sector in Mauritania is a formidable task.
Most of the country lies in the Sahara desert. The bulk of the rural popu-
lation lives in the Sahelian zone (about one-fourth of the country), with
rainfall ranging from 100 mm to 500-600 mm a year, but is scattered over
vast areas deprived .of all basic infrastructure. About 80 percent, predom-
inantly Moors, are engaged in nomadic livestock herding while the remainder,
mainly Black ethnic groups, are sedentary farmers living along the Senegal
River. The main crops are millet and sorghum. Due to both primitive cul-
tivation techniques and rainfall irregularity, yields are extremely low,
about 300-400 kg per hectare. Thus, local production covers only 60 percent
of the country's food requirements. Livestock, the major economic activity,
is based on traditional transhuman grazing in an area extending from the
southern part of Mauritania to Mali and Senegal. During the 1960's, the
Government's policy focused on the development of urban and transport infra-
structure. Little was done for the rural sector. Extension services were
virtually non-existent and little was achieved in terms of improving produc-
tion techniques. Not prepared for the long years of drought, agricultural
production decreased by 70 percent from 1970 to 1973 while livestock herds
were reduced by 20 percent. Thousands of farmers and herdsmen having lost
their source of livelihood in rural areas have had to migrate to the towns.
24.       Due emphasis is now given to rural sector investments.   However,
the number of viable projects at an advanced stage of preparation is severely
limited and substantial additional analysis and preparatory work will be
needed to generate economically feasible projects. Given the ecological
conditions, possibilities for developing rainfed agriculture are extremely
limited. On the other hand, irrigation has considerable potential. Mauritania
is a member of OMVS, a regional organization, common to Mali, Senegal, and
Mauritania, which is responsible for preparing and implementing a vast devel-
opment program in the Senegal River Basin. In addition, Mauritania can under-
take a small number of national irrigation projects, somewhat independently
from the overall OMVS program.
25.       The main features of the OMVS program are the construction of
two dams. The Diama dam would prevent salt intrusion into the Senegal Delta
and would permit double cropping of 30 to 50,000 hectares. The Manantali dam
on the Bafing River in Mali, one of the two main tributaries of the Senegal
River, would partly regulate the flows of the main river and permit develop-
ment of 2-300,000 hectares under irrigation. Preliminary and detailed engi-
neering of the two dams started last year with financial assistance from
France and Germany.



- 8 -
26.       A number of small to medium-scale irrigation schemes have already
been undertaken in the Senegal River Basin. In Mauritania, however, imple-
mentation of these projects is at an embryonic stage. Acreage under culti-
vation at M'Pourie (single crop only) does not exceed 800 ha. Several very
small irrigation schemes (25 to 30 ha each) along the Senegal River between
Rosso and Kaedi have also been started, but their implementation is encoun-
tering severe technical and managerial difficulties. The 975-ha first phase
of the Boghe project is at the tendering stage. Two other OMVS-related irri-
gation projects, Aftout es Sahel and Lac R'Kiz, which together could open up
22,000 ha for irrigation, are the subject of feasibility or pre-feasibility
studies.
27.       At the national level, the most advanced irrigation scheme is the
Gorgol Project which consists of the construction of two regulating dams,
protective dikes, drainage and irrigation networks necessary to develop in
two phases 10,000 ha for double cropping. The engineering study for the
first phase financed under a $1.1 million IDA Credit S16 and completed in 1975
showed that costs would be much higher than anticipated and led to a redesign
of the project. The solution proposed to and accepted by the Government
includes the construction of only one dam, at Foum El Gleita and irrigation
of 3,500 ha downstream of the dam on the Gorgol Noir. Supplementary studies
needed to confirm the economic viability of the new alternative and to final-
ize the project design would be financed in part under the proposed technical
assistance project.
28.       The difficulties encountered in preparing the Gorgol scheme are
by no means peculiar to this project, and all irrigation projects in
Mauritania are liable to face the same problems of high construction costs,
lack of transportation facilities, and paucity of local skills. In spite of
these difficulties the irrigation sector represents in the long run the best
available opportunity to develop and modernize Mauritanian agriculture and
to protect the farmers against the periodic recurrence of droughts. However,
substantial foreign technical assistance will be needed to complement the
limited local capacity to prepare feasible sector strategies, set priori-
ties, and undertake economic and financial analyses leading to the formu-
lation of concrete development projects. The recently approved technical
assistance project to the Ministry of Planning should play an important
role in this respect. Implementing projects in the rural sector is, however,
not assured by sound planning and preparation; the Government has learned
through bitter experience that its rural administrative services are woefully
inadequate in executing development projects. Mauritania needs a strong
executing agency to take advantage of investment possibilities offered by the
OMVS program and to ensure effective implementation of such national projects
as the Gorgol Basin Development Scheme. SONADER, the new agency created to
answer this need, will require considerable foreign assistance to carry out
its functions.
29.       SONADER's main objectives are to identify, execute, supervise and
manage rural development projects, particularly irrigation projects, that
may be entrusted to it by the Government. SONADER's charter gives it a sub-
stantial amount of administrative and financial autonomy which frees it from



- 9 -
the constraints that burden the majority of public institutions in Mauritania.
It has authority to obtain loans from public and private sources, can recruit
its personnel without being subject to regular civil service procedures, and
controls its own budget. SONADER is under the supervision of the Ministry of
Water Resources which is, since the November 1975 reorganization, entrusted
with preparing and implementing irrigation and rural water supply projects.
Livestock services and agricultural production and marketing are under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. Both ministries are
supervised by the new Super-Ministry of Rural Development.
30.       The Government's request to IDA to finance a project advisory
team is motivated by the need to turn SONADER into a strong development
agency capable of carrying out a rational investment program for the rural
sector. The general manager of SONADER is a competent Mauritanian agronomist,
but he needs the support of experienced foreign experts to set up the agency,
prepare a work program, and design and implement a training program aimed
at providing the agency with a permanent staff capable of identifying, pre-
paring and evaluating agricultural projects. In a first phase, major emphasis
would be placed on making SONADER operational by strengthening its structure
and by attaching to it the supervision of a few ongoing projects. It is only
when the agency has gathered momentum that efforts may be concentrated on
strengthening its project execution capability. In this second phase, empha-
sis would be placed on developing force account brigades which would carry out
land development and other simple civil works in connection with SONADER's
irrigation projects. Equally important is the fact that, during execution of
the first phase, training requirements and problems would have been identi-
fied, thereby permitting the design and implementation of a program adapted
to the needs of the agency, for the second phase. UNDP does not have suf-
ficient resources available within its program for Mauritania to finance
either phase of the project.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Director General of SONADER with
the assistance of a Bank mission that visited Mauritania in August 1976 and
was later finalized during discussions held in Paris in October 1976 in
connection with the Gorgol Project and in Mauritania in February 1977.
Negotiations were held in Nouakchott on Friday, March 11, 1977. The Mauri-
tanian delegation was led by Moustapha ould Abeiderrahmane, Director of
the Ministry of Planning. A credit and project summary is provided in Annex
III. Further information appears in Annex IV. There is no separate appraisal
report for this project.
General Description
32.       The proposed project is the first phase of a plan designed to
build SONADER into a strong agency capable of preparing and executing well-
conceived projects in the rural sector. The project would provide a three-
year program of technical assistance aimed at strengthening the organiza-
tional structure of SONADER. It would also finance consultant services
needed to support the advisory team's work of making the agency rapidly



- 10 -
operational. Results obtained during this first phase, particularly fn the
training field, would be crucial for the design of the second phase which
would aim at strengthening SONADER's executive capability by training
Mauritanians to run the force account brigades and to take over the manage-
ment of agricultural projects.
Personnel and Functions
33.       The project would provide the salaries for seven expatriate experts
and seven Mauritanian professionals during a period of three years as follows:
(i) A management team of three senior advisers (a finan-
cial expert, an irrigation engineer and an agricul-
tural economist). These experts would assist the
Director General in recruiting the junior specialists,
preparing and monitoring SONADER's work program and
investment budgets, identifying and preparing rural
projects, taking over the supervision of a few on-
going projects, training the Mauritanians in their
respective fields, and preparing the second phase
of the program.
(ii) Four junior specialists (an irrigation engineer, an
agricultural economist, a mechanical engineer and a
topographer). The irrigation engineer and the agri-
cultural economist would assist the senior advisors
in preparing projects and would particularly be respon-
sible for the field supervision of ongoing projects.
The mechanical engineer would help prepare the list
of equipment needed by SONADER to execute the works
and operate the irrigated perimeters and would or-
ganize and supervise procurement and maintenance
of such equipment. The topographer would prepare
and supervise topographic studies to be carried out
by SONADER and would train Mauritanian topographers.
(iii) Seven Mauritanian professionals to be trained by the
advisors.
34.       The project would in addition provide for consultant services in-
cluding:
(i) Short-term expertise to deal with special subjects,
such as training, including preparation and organi-
zation of training.
(ii) Specialists to carry out studies supplementing those
made under Credit S16 for the preparation of the Gorgol
irrigation project. These include: (a) the collection
of pedological, topographical, and geo-technical data
for an area of about 5,000 ha downstream of Foum El
Gleita and (b) project design of an irrigation scheme



11 -
covering 3,500 ha and agro-economical studies related
to it.
Equipment
35.       The acquisition of equipment would be limited to what is considered
necessary to permit the technical and administrative staff of SONADER to oper-
ate efficiently in the first phase of activities, i.e. five vehicles, and
topographic, office and drawing materials. The topographic material envi-
saged in the project is required to execute simple topographic works and to
check more sophisticated studies carried out by the consultants. Equipment
for irrigation work would be provided under the second phase.
Project Organization and Execution
36.       The executing agency of the project will be SONADER under the
auspices of the Ministry of Water Resources. The team of expatriates and
Mauritanians will be incorporated into the staff of SONADER, and will be
responsible to the Director General. Each member of the team will be given
clearly defined responsibilities and duties. Three senior managers would be
recruited first to help the Director General select the four junior special-
ists. They would act as directors of three main departments and would closely
supervise the work performed by the Mauritanian engineers and agronomists.
The four junior specialists would be essentially assigned to field work and to
training at the execution level.
Training
37.       Since the Mauritanians scheduled to join SONADER (except the topo-
grapher) are university graduates, the emphasis would be placed on on-the-job
training although short formal instruction in the financial and economic
techniques of project identification design and evaluation as well as other
technical and management skills would be included where appropriate. The
Mauritanians would have specific responsibilities within SONADER which wottld
become more complex as they gain experience and advance through the training
cycle. Their performance would be monitored during each step and their
progression and promotion would depend on the successful completion of the
previous stage. The training program for the Mauritanian professionals
would be an integral part of the expatriates' work program which would in--
clude specific training objectives within a defined time frame, and would
be closely evaluated by the Association during supervision missions. In
this connection training consultants financed by the project would be re-
tained to assist the Director General of SONADER and the senior advisers
in establishing and monitoring the training program.
38.       Eventually, SONADER will be responsible for managing agricultural
projects and it is crucial to identify the training needs to prepare people
in advance to staff them. The training consultants would therefore also
have responsibility for:



- 12 -
(i)  surveying the supply of potential managerial and
technical personnel in Mauritania for possible
assignment to SONADER's staff for training;
(ii)  selecting a small number of SONADER's qualified
staff for further training for project managerial
jobs;
(iii)  identifying the deficiencies of potential candi-
dates and trainees in specific technical and man-
agerial skills and proposing an appropraite
training program.
The training consultants to be selected will have had previous training expe-
rience which is relevant to conditions in Mauritania. Their qualifications
and terms of reference will be approved by the Association.
Cost and Financing
39.       The total project cost is estimated at US$4.4 million (net of
taxes) of which 65 percent is expected to be foreign exchange. The proposed
Credit of US$3.5 million would finance 80 percent of total project costs
(net of taxes), including 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and about
US$0.6 million of the local costs (net of taxes). The financing of some local
costs in Mauritania is necessary for the reasons noted in paragraph 16. The
financing plan showing the proposed application of the contributions of the
Association and of the Government is:
US$ Thousand
IDA         Government         Total
1.   Salaries and allowances
of advisers                       1,980            -              1,980
2.   Salaries and allowances
of Mauritanian
professionals                       -             500               500
3.   Consultant budget                    920            200            1,120
4.   Equipment, vehicles
and operating costs                 150            50               200
4.   Contingencies                        450           110               560
Total                         3,500           860             4,360
(in percentage)                      (80)          (20)             (100)
The estimated cost covers 250 man/months of advisers, and approximately 140
man/months of consultants to carry out studies on the Gorgol project and to
deal with special subjects including training, to be determined in the course



- 13 -
of project implementation. Cost per man/month, including allowances and
travel, would amount to US$8,300 for senior advisers, US$7,000 for junior
advisers and US$8,000 for consultants. It also covers 400 man/months of
Mauritanian professionals and the necessary equipment for them and the
advisors. Contingencies of about 13 percent on base prices have been in-
cluded for price increases. As most contracts for consultants and equipment
will be placed at the outset, this provision should suffice and reflects the
most recent CPS guidelines. Details on cost estimates appear in Annex III.
40.       Provision for retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is proposed
to (i) facilitate early recruitment of the team leader and of the two senior
advisors, and (ii) cover the cost of supplementary studies needed to prepare
the Gorgol project.
Procurement
41.       The Association is likely to be requested by the government to
recruit some of the expatriate advisors (either through a consulting firm
or directly) and second them to Mauritania. The Association would also help.
select the Mauritanian staff to be trained under the project. The entire cost
of the advisors, their salaries and allowances, including costs incurred in
their recruitment, would be covered by the proceeds of the Credit. All the,
contracts for consultancy services would be subject to prior approval of the
Association, except for those under US$10,000.
42.       Vehicles, and topographic, office and drawing materials would be
procured by competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures - as they
apply to SONADER - which are acceptable to IDA when such contracts exceed
US$10,000. For contracts under US$10,000, local shopping would be employed,
provided the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$50,000.
Disbursement
43.       The Credit would be disbursed against:   100 percent of the salaries
and allowances of the advisers together with their recruitment cost; 75
percent of the cost of equipment, vehicles, and operating costs; and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services.
Benefits and Risks
44.       The technical expertise to be provided under this project will
help the Government in its efforts to build SONADER into an efficient insti-
tution capable of taking advantage of the investment opportunities under the
OMVS program and of ensuring the implementation of other high-priority in-
vestments such as the Gorgol Basin Development Scheme. Work done on this
project will be crucial to the preparation of the second phase and will help
attract the necessary foreign assistance to finance it. Besides the normal
risks for this kind of project, i.e., finding suitable expatriates and ensur-
ing their cooperation with local staff, as well as competition between gov-
ernment agencies which may limit SONADER's independence, there is the danger



- 14 -
that the agency might get involved in ill-formulated development programs.
In this respect, the recently approved technical assistance to the Ministry
of Planning aimed at strengthening the planning machinery, elaborating sec-
toral strategies, and setting priorities, should reduce the risk.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Association and SONADER, Recommendations of the Committee provided in
Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development
Credit Agreement follows the form previously used for this type of project.
46.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
ATTACHMENTS
Washington, D.C.
March 17, 1977



ANNEZX I
Page 1 of L pagee
TABLE 5*
MAURIlTANIA          - SOCIAL INOICATOOS OATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KmZ)                 ..................…                  ........
MAURITANIA                          REFERENCE COUNT,IES (1910)
TOTAL      1030.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      195.1                       1960      197G    ESTIMATE          SENEGAL    IVORY CCAST  Z2dQIAJ
GNP PEP CAPITA (USi)                      90.0 -     t .0     310.Q              241.0       340.d       410.3
PUPULATIUN AND 9ITAL STATISTICS
POUPULATIMN (M10 UYR,  ILLIO)            I . C      1.2       1.3                 4.4        5.4         4.3
POPULATION DENSITY
FEF SQUARE Km.                         1.0       1.0        1.0               22.0        Ib.0         o.J
PEU 50. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          3.0 /a     ..         ..               39.0        30.3          .
vItAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/TT.DiOU AT.)      44. d       4.9       44. A              4 1.6       46.1        49.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/ThiC, AV.)        27.1       24.7       24.9               24.4        23.3        25.9
Ib ANT MORTALITY RATE (/HIt,U)         ..         ..      169.C              156.0
L:fE ExPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        35.9      41.0       3a.5               44.0        41.0        43.5
Uf LSa REPPOOUCTION RATE                . .      Z.9        2.9                3.0         3.1         3.3
PUPs'LATION GROIITe hATE (X)
TSTAL                                 o.8 *      I.a        2.7                2.6         3.'. Ia     2.9
OnSAN                                   . .       .8       14.1                6.0         8.   77;   13. odiL
URd0 h PUPJLATIUN (I OF TUTAL)           b.G       14.2      21.7                29.J       23.0        3')..
AGE aTAULTURE (PERC;!.T)
0 Ti 14 YEA1 S                       41.6      41.A       41.9               41.2        42.5        46.0
15 TO oA YEARS                       55.2       55.1       55.0               54.9        54.3        51.2
65 YEARS ANO 0vEP                      3.2       3.1        3.1                 3.9        2.7         3.
AGE vEPENOEN CY RATI                   0C.2        E.8        C.a                C.S         0.8         1.S
ECJNOMiC DEPENOENCY PATIO                1.4I /L    1.1 /a    1.3 /a              1.2 /a     0.) /c      I
F a It Y PL A4N IPt
ACCCEFtJS (CUmULATTIVL, THOU)           ..        ..         ..
JSLE i I I Df MARPIE0 E ut¶ET           ..        ..         ..                 ..oum..
,MPLUY-EmT
TOTAL LAdO& FOOCE (THIOUSAND)          310.0      360.0     S20.0             1604.0      2600.0          .
LA4OF fQrCE IN ACRICuLTUhE (Z)          91 .0     t5.        Z5.G0              73. 3       u?.0          *-
oCEAPLOYtD (A OF LAAGR Fi,hCE)            ..        ..         ..                 7.U        6.0        1S. Ib
INCOME CIST&IdUTICh
; OF PHIVATE INCM9E REC-0 6Y-
HIUHEST  5X Of HOUSEHOLOS               ..        ..         ..                 ..
H151t 5T 20 9OF HCuSEMOLOS             ..        ..         ..                 ..          .
LODEST  20. OF HUUSEHOLDS               ..        ..         ..                 ..
LoRENT   A0X Uf IIJUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..                 ..
USST4I,fulluN Of LANO uvNLRSHIP
Z 24EU0 iY TOP IC. OF DANEAS              ..        ..         ..                  ..         .
: GANEd AY SMALLEST 1CY QNES              ..        ..         .. .U.W...
HEALTr ANO   LTNrITIU'j
POPULATION PER PhIYSICIA'            38120.0 /c  17060.0   17L90.0 /b        16t40.u     15320.0     13500.0
OPUL A1,UN 'RP 1.5 jhG PLPSUt.       7130.0 7fl d 230.0   1,390.0 7S         268e.0      313 C: /d   2520.0
FOPIILATiTON PER HIOSPITAL D41        5330.0 t7 27W0.0 /b  2700.0 7S           8 1iG.0 ,'  d50.        3 1 J.
FER CAPITA SUPPLe uF -
CALdhIES IX OrF PEJ l IFE m T S      95.0       09.        dC.C/d             91.        I 08.0 a     8.0
PFCTEIN (GRAMS PE5 CAY)              73.C       15.3      bo.S /d              4.J        oO.0        64.0
-Of OHICF 'A'Il AL %ND PULSE         .        4.  4 .C0 I/.                       c C   13. /e     Z5.0 /c
DEATn AATE (/T,Ou) 'GES 1-4             34.0 If      ..        ..                 ..
LDUCAT ;dt
AOJUSTEJ ENROLLM-ENT RATIO
P99A9Y SCHOOUL                        a.0       16.0       16.3 ,             3d.' /1     7i.0      7Z.J
,ECONOARY SCnUCL                      0.4         .0        i. 7;             15.0 'G.e   11.0
YEAR  ;!F SCHOOLING PRODv1EG,
(FIRST A4D SLCuND LEVEL)               ..      I.;        14.0               13.G        13. )       Z )
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLM4ENT
(Z OF SECJdSAPY)                     12.0 Io      ..       12.3                ;.0         7.0        3.0
AOULT LITERACY RATE (')                 5.C       1                             I U.)      C2.0         I.)
rJUSiN5
'EFSLNS PEF PQ6r, ( ;'033)                ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        2.6 /d
GCCuPIED 0.ELLI'4GS s; Yp0uT
PIPED  MATE. (A)                                       ..                       ..         ..        o6.G
ACCESS TO LLECTPICITY
(I X Of A LL L ^AELL I!,)              .. G.                 ..                 ...
RURAL DAELLINGS CQNNELTE.
TO ELECTFIIC ITr (:                    .          ..        ..                  ..
CON4UMP TI Oh
"ADIO A .CECVE I  (r59 irjs P FOPA      b.0       *Z.0       14.0               69.0
P-ASL.CE '445 T/E      OU  C')           3,4 r      . 7.3 AU                     9.0        I*O         1 4. 3
ELLZ:IAIC:Tr (K1.H/l  'E4 CA-)          i         t3. .0  Z                      3J        120 C      957.0
R,.2eSrnIhNT (ILu/  14 5r ^ t             . .        .                           C 1          .I0       3aS
SEE 47 45 A44 0TEEI :iTiNS ON Ar'E-SE



Page 2 f 4 pegs.
Vnless otherwise notd, d.t. for 1960 refer to say Year b-twee    1959 and 1961, for 1970 beitese 1968 end 1970,..ed for Most Re    Ent  ti-tce be t-ee
19 73ad1975.
D ifft .....e betwee 1I1) popuation growth r-te and U.N. rtet of natura-Ince          due to differt ....en.. be....
ew  -seia  eslce          nojc e      country because it h.s a large export oriented eLIi     . etor which, like Morit-nie, con.tit.t-e the bulk fi
GDP endacon.forwteports.
MAURITANIA         1960    L.  1964,    LŽ Ratio of pcpcleti.c .oder 15 end 65 end oe.m to tota1 lebor forCe;       kc  1962;     id  Goc-rront pronl
Go-sr..t boepire1 eeteblish.-nc;        If* 1964-65.
1970        Ratio of ppuletion und.r 15 end 65 an I0cm    to total Labor force,     Lb G--emen     hospite1 .st.bli.heents,    .L.  1964-66.
MOST RLCF2NT E1TItATlE:  1..  Ratio of popultion under 15 end 65 and o-r to total labor forc;       /b  1971;    LI, Goowrmeot hospitaL
nat.bliwhoents,    Id   1969-71 ac-rag.;    /n  1972.
SENEGAL            1970     L. Ratio of popultion under 15 end 65 end o-r to total lebor forc;         Lb G o. rnsent hospital .et.blisfonentts;   /o  1964-
66;    /d  Unadjosted;    /.Lo  Lowe seondary 1-1s.
ivoRY coAsr        19)70       D..u to i-igrati.n,pop..tio- groetb ret. L. bighrr than tbs r-te of natore1 Lore...;        lb  1965-70;         R actio of
pop.l.tloc under 15 end 65 end I--r to Ltota  labor force;    Id  Go-r-et only;            1964-66;    ~f 12-18 yeas- of ag..
ZAMOBLA            1970)   1   1965-69;     'b  P.trsone oking work;     /c  1964-66;    Ld  Tot.1, urban and r-ra.
R4, Janoary 3, 1977
DED61TZNS OF' SOCIAL INDICATORS
aed  sn /tho- be2)                                                            Pav,,et;io  ear n.rwieg Pareon - Popul.tio  divided b,y ,,ber of pr-ticiog
ocl-Totel surfer. ares -nprieleg lend   -re  and i.lood -tfse,wae                    n   fe_ale graduate, nuew, "tr-ied" or 'cartfifd" nus        a nd
cArts    M -Mot  ..tseeaiwto of ercucra         re   cd tsepo-rrly or             e.siltary persoenel wirh tratils or    npe-ience.
peeonlyfr      Impe    paerst e, werket 6 kitohen gerdee or to lie             Popultion REa hogotal bed - Population divid.d by meeber of boepite1 bad.
fellow.                                                                          aellsipuLIc aod private gewere1 and ep..iali.ed hoopit.1 and
reh.bilitatlent centers; senlade. ours lg haae and es tebli thlnta for
miP par cerice fIUS) - GRP per capite e.tiwetes at curret earkat pricer,           cuetodil awd peeveetir    care.
..clcolend b     s       - ovewo ne-thad a. Wrld gank Atles (1973-75 beeis) ;  Per osei1te eu  Iv of calories fZ of -eouirenaot) - Ceeputed fr-e esergy
1960. 1970 end 1975 d..                                                           qiweet of n.      food supplies eveil.ble in o0ntry per c.pita per day,
avLleble supplie. c"aprie. dewestl   production , ieporre lees enprrte,
yuuaio  n  ite1 -ceietio.                                                   and hbea.   I to rek,etupia         cahde -wiwa feed, eeed., quantitie.
youlroo.Ild-r olllfn-     Aa of Joly fint    if nor aecilble,                 ueed 1. food procsseiw  awd lese   in dlt tib,tln    rqorene        ae
S.eeg  If c-  end-ya  recta    . 1960, 1970 end 195dte.                        estUect.d by PAO besed onnpyiooi        el ed, for .o.-I activity and
health .-eaiderieg e,sriroeeaaetal tesperetare, body onight., aeg and '..
foponletian d ...iry - par .cucro be -  id-year populetion per squar  bilb-         di.tribstions of population, and allosrieg 107. for -aest at householId leve.
wtr(100 he tareg,) of total area.
Fonul1-ton dnsty -T  er socere be of aeric, lend - Copared es shov     for        Per re"eeneeo            ...ei  Itee  ear d)   -Potet i  onceotn of per
agiurrLalnd onl-.                                                          oa;pitetnt eppl~;fof food par day,net supply of feed to defined ce
eke.., reqoirmats for eli coutriee eet.bliashd by USDA fooneeto.
Vital jsatisties                                                                    Rase r h Service. provide far e eLniate  .llownce of 6f grams of
Crude birth ra;:rear tbouhe     voce-Annual lIve birth. per tbosecd                 tote1 prntein per dey, and 20 gre,nc of sole1 end pole. protnin,of
of ntd_y.ar poplato,ten year      richwa:r    everages ending in 1960 end        whioh 10 gree ehoud be coAteD protein, tbese standards are lovr
l0'U. and fIv-ya    atera.ge cndlng to 1975 for woos receoc eeletet.              lb.. tboee of 75 grat  of toti Prote, Land 23 grn of anImal protein
Crde hnt te.r     rtouadavrene-_A."uaI dnetha per thouead ofmid-                  ow so avrega for rhe world, prpyceed by FAO in the Third World Food
Year pooaio        s-year -rich-eto   _ceregee ending L. 1960 end 1970 end        SurvY.
fieveavrage ending in 1975 for eostrnn             sist.t r                        rnt      rotin=upl free nIa and Poise - Protein eupply of fond
Infa-t wort.lity rete (/thou) - Anoo-I deothaof ifanstneroeye                       d.rivr  free eninal and polee to greo     par da..
ofl :ge per ebone-nd lve, bhirthw.                                               Death ret. i/th.u) ceae 1-4 - Aenu-I deetbe per.thouaand in ae group
Laaoecero  ith L_  re   A- arege nmber of yeee of life r-1ei-               1-4 yea.rs, no children is this age grop; .oggeeted asai ldicaor of
Log or birth. ocualy fiv-y-e evtagese ending Is 1960. 1970 and                   eIalotrition.
1975 for develpieg toctie...
Cr0... -woodce             ATrae   dveg  number of lIve daught.re a  -ec  will    Education
hear to her onal rroduo tt       period if  h.s spetientes presen.t age-        Adiuste enrlmnt rrto2 - pniar        -h-o1 - Enrollesnt of elI egee as
specifI  fertiity rere, usully fi e-or avrages ending in 1960,           percetg      f  rw     who-.ge poplation ; includno chlldr.n aged
1970 sod IV'S for devloin    countrie.                                            6-il -ers hot edjustad for differn -   lengihs of prlear  edocatior.
ycoulcion ro-or rate(27 -_otal- C"po,und eatuel growth rterse of eid-       for -outrio.    ithi tiv-r-1 edoc-ion, enrolleent naey ....ead 1007.
yerpopultio   for 1950-60, 19.60-70 and 1970- 75.                               eioe see pupil. gre bab     or above the Official scobol eg..
yooutl..o   fvbvra(,          re r h- Coopoed hikt growth r-t of total            Ad-inted enrollmet rati  - secodary school - Cwspoted as above,
populaton   dfferent definiciona of urben orne way afist coopers-                 econdat   ed_ation reuie        or... tfour years of epprovad prnaor,
biiy  fdaaone  coutris                                                    inetruction   provide. gener.1, vontionel or teacher trt.inifg
ilrben D ... ncion (/2 of total) - iatio of oaeto total populetiov;                 inetruotion     frp  ilof 12 to 17 year. of aeg; corrspoana.....
dif (erec  ef!ititn  If oron arecs ney effect ewnparchillry ofdata               corsesen    generrall.y dnclIdw,/
_'o c__iriea.                                                                  '(rar of scooin    Rovdd(irst and second levell) - TotalI year. of
Age struotoc  (Pn.et-t   - Children 70-lb yeere),  origg.(15-64 yee,                schooling; at secondary leve, vc     _,_Ienlietutinny he Per-
and retired (65 feet. and over) eas prc=nteg.e of aid-year population.            rially or cooplerely secluded.
M. dspeodeec- ratio - Rtiro of population under 15 end 65aend ever to             vocationel anrollont (7. of   etcodery) - forotionel inetitotione
cbh-  of ages 10 through 64.                                                     include tachnloal, industrial or othe    prgs     which operete
SCronoir dsrpornc rel      -   tio of Pupulation atder IS sod 65 end over           independently or a. deparnect     f     ascodar  nttto
tothe,ao    frei age gop of 15-6        y   -re                               Adult lter.., rst.   t t    itrae    dulcts (ah'le,to' red and write) as
Fenilo olanooo-acoertor  (n altive. thu  -Cltiswheof                         percentsge of tota  adult population ae15 yas      enovr.
accePtors of bir-h--otro1 device. under euspic     of national fsnlly
fenijypleatig - usrs (7. of narri.d coosm) - Percentages of woarned            pso   a pr roce, (urban) - Average oaber of person   per row  in
women o  cbild-eatiogage (15-44 tet.  ho us  birt'h-control davice          occup'ed conentional d-celinge in urben areas; duellinga ceciudo
to oil stld        inoe   10 a   age group.                                     son-perwameot structures and unoccupied perts.
O.ceurid deallinga without Pinned water (7.) - O-ccoPid covetional
toPl-ymn                                                                            dwellingsisn orben and tur    are.. without iwaid. or outside Piped
-0ta1 lobor forc- (thousand) - Econoice11y active Pareons    tnrding                uater fanIiitie  as Percenrage of all occupiLed d-Ilhiega.
armd f,r,:ni ard umeploy.d htbt.xoludiog h-ouseive, students, stc.,             ACCee to electricity ft of all duejlino.) - tonventioe     dwellings   n
de finiton  i vrio      conries ate non coperebie.                                with electricit  is living quarte.r eo peract of etetl dwellIngsgi
Labor for-a in arclue(.           AgirIcultrel lahor farce (in fooning,             urban end rrlaes
.orenrv  oueingend  lebng)  s prc_ntge of total lIker force.           uRel- dwe!lines coen~ected to Ieletricity 7.- Conputed as ebou     for
Lnp iye ( o   boo   force  as nopiovd are usually defined as                raldoellinga only.
persons  h. Ott able aod wl11i.g cc tebe e Job, out of eJob o
given day, ronaind out of a Job, and ... kLag work (or a   p-ifie1              Coneseption
et=iw   period oat *-cediog one ..eek; waycnt he -oparsbl. betee                ido acler Cs thou eop) - All tYpe. of r                   fovee(r redlo broed-
cttrsdetod   ifferen   dfiioeounpl-deesorefeesccgealublic per thoos.cnd of population, secludes
det. 5. 6., enpioves     OffIc  csitie     eapeare         c oapulsry             unlcened re...ivere in countrie  end in year. -hen regitrrtn of
ouwploynenat Innec.radio eta was tof effect data for receant 7seru na                                                                  not be coepeoshle
elc  et csat     abseolished IL.e.eing.
incomec dictlrboeion  perc....b. of priwute iacwe   (bath in casb end             Pee=ne    r:cr (eari thou Pan) - Paeeenger cars taprise eater cars
bled, receIv'ed byf riroset 5-. richeet2lIt poorest201, and pourota.              e       lte ee. than eight pereona; serldae  kb4l.ance, hearses end
AC'. If    .houeode.                                                             :ihitary wehicle..
Electricity (khuho   par oa2) -A. Iana conaception of tdwdt,ia1, ewe-
Dietribntto-, o  lavd o-crehin - ftrcentagss of toed ownd by weslthi-at             nrcie1, public end prl-it. elee     .ttiiy in kilowatt hours Per rqpita.
10% end P...ee.I107 of Istd Swoe                                                   eserelly hased on prodction date, without allcsanc. for Ioa ..    to i
gr b.kn lt wn    con' I"Portt andt:epcre of electrlolty.
9elhadbtri"ior                                                               B=snn (ay       eccr       Pat cpit   annual coeeptninMIort
yr,uerth  per N. sile - P.opc.le,oa divided by seber of Practicing                Natleatadfo        iai     pekdoction plus ne     loti- of     kiplat-
Pr"etolena qulifi.d fre a aedical school an aelve-ety Lavsl.



ANNE I
Page 3 of 4 pages
2N0 MC QEPTlO" r,ATA
(h~sta  n milioa o  U.S. doEZars)
Eatimated    _291ate                 1970     1973       195         1970    1975     1.980
'97      1.973     12 74      l075   ~2-26      198L0          1973     9975       1980 
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & ExhnePts              Average Annual. Growth Rates        As Percen.t of GOY
Gross Pumestl-c Product          194,9     208.2    225.9      243.9     231.5   299.4            2.2      8.2        4.2       104.0    t111.5  108.8
Gains from Terms cf Trade (.c)     g       .LLJ     .Z21.0     -?ij      -26.5   -24.2                                           -4.0    -11.5    -8.8
Gross Oomest2..Ž  ncome          187.4     191.9    204.9       218.7    225.0   275.2            0 8      6.8        4 7        100.0   100.0   100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                94.2     114.2    123.9      129.2     129.6   158.!            6.6      6.4        4.1        50.3     59 1    57.4
Exports    .1(import caracity)    94.1     103.4     99.5        93.0     87.0   114.1            3.2     -5.1        4.2        50.2     42.5    41.4
Resource Gap                       0.1      10.8     24.4       36.2      42.6    44.0             .                   .0.                16.6    16.0
Consumption Expenditures         148.3     159.5    174.3       184.9    187.7   219.7            2.5      7.7        3.5        79.1     84.5    79.8
Investment   11(incl. stocks)     39.2      43.2     55.0       70.0      79.9    99.5            3.3     12.8        7.3        20.9     32.0    36.2
Domestic Savings                  39.2      32.4     30.6       33.8      37.3    55 5           -6.1      2.1       10.4        20 9     15.5    20 2
National. Savings                 25.5      37.2     4.4.5       43.5     39.6    56.2           13.4     -1.1        5.3        13.6     19 9    20 4
MEPCH.AINCISE TRADE                         Annual. Data at Cisrrent Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
Tmports
Capital goods                   16.1      537      88.8        81.0    103.1   191.0           35.0     22.8       18.1        16.9     37.3    42.5
intermeadiate goods (m=Lfuel.s)  19.6     27.6     36.6       42.1      50.7    90.31          12 1     23.5      16 5         20.5     19.3    20 1
Petroleum Products               5.0      10.0     23 5       26.7      29.2    21.4           26.0     63.0       -4.3         5.3     12 2     4.6
Crude Petroleum                    -        -        -           -        -     16.4             -        -          .-                          3.6
Constinpts. ngoods              54.7     tAl       7.4.Z.      69.0     75.8   110.5           -4.0     1.9.4      13.6        5.        15     2 
Total March. Importo (sir)  95.4  139.7  ~224.3  218.8    253.8    449.6           13.5     25.5      15.5        100.0   100.0    100 0
Exports
Iron ore                        77.5     102.8    129.5      143.4     121.2   241.4            9.9     18 1       11.0        79 4    64.5     73.2
Co?per Concentrate                 -      12 8     39.2         5.2     19.4    36.6             -     -35.5       47.0           -      3.1    11.1
Fish Producta                    7.3      12.3     12.6       16.0      19.9    38.7           59.0     14.0       19.3         7.5      9 4    11 7
Other P-d-t,            jL-        3 6      5.6        4-        j-1    _.o.ii.355              16.7       21.0        13.1      2.9     4 0
Total Yer-h. Exoorts (fob)      97.6    1731.5    186.9       169.5    166.6   329.9           10 4     13.5       14.3       100 0-   1600.0  100.0
Merchan.iise Trade indices                    Average 1967 -1969 5 100
Export --rice Ti.dex           104.0    126.0     151.9      168.7     175.5   261.9            6.6     15.7       9.2
:=G-ct Price Lndex             111.5    144.4     1851,4     214.9    234.5    316.0           9.0      22.0       8.0
Terms of Trade index            93.3     87.3      81.9       78.5      74.8    87.4           -2.2     -5.2       2.2
&Exports Volume Index          121.5    135.6     159.9      131.7     123.5   163.7            37      -.          .
~ALt ADDED BY SE-CTOR           Ansr.al Data at 1067-69 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual. Growth Pates       As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     69.3     46.7      61.2       65.8      69.8    76.3          -12.4     18.7        3.0        38.4    30.4     28.7
Industry and Mi.nir.g           66.0     83.7      98.2       85.0     88.5    108.8            8 2      0.8       5.1         26 6    39.3     41.0
Servicee                        45.1     51.4      57.9       65.7      68.6    80.5          4A.5      13.0       4.          25.0    30.3     30 3
To tal.                        180.4    181.8     217.3      216.3    7226.9    =               0.5      9.1       4 2       -TM-' IThU       -TM
7'JEL:C FTlIASCE                                In Billions of UNM                                                                 As Percent o:" lOP
(C-enir.l. Gover.nwen-t)
Current: Peceipts                1.4      2.4       3.5        3.5       4.6     8.7          19 7      20.0      20.0         14.0    17.1    23.9
Currenz Exnen.lltu.res           1 3       2.0      2.5        3.4       4~ .1   7 .7          15.4     30.0      17 8         12 8    16 7     21 2
Busdgetary laavin&s              0.1       3.4      1.0        0.1       0 5     1.0             .                              12      0.4     2.,7
Cther Public Sector              --       -0.3      0.6        0.3       0 4     0,8                      .       21 5          0.2     1.5     2 2
?P,blic Sector investment        0.2       0.7      1.1        4.2       4.7     8.6          52.0        .       15.4          5.6    20.7    2 3 7
TL'RAENT EXPEND2ITUPE LETA O:S                                                                    ONig ~   IEA  :
AS I4 Total Current Exp-n d.s           1970    1971      1972        7-3               PUBLIC SECTSP                    Pobt:c lnesetnants (1970- L'
7{TtST2M77T PPG7Ex2:            1973 1,Ss             .'. oal
General Services                        38.6    38.3      35.8      38.3                Rural Development                   9.0                 11.4
Social Services                         32.2    29.6      32.4      30.0                 iOndustrv and Mcinlr.e            11 214 3
2conomic Services                        7.3     6.8       6.8       7.0                 Transport Infrastructure          31.51               40.0
Oth,er ~Exend~itures                    21.9    25.3      25.-0     24.7                Social lnfrastruoctare            27 0                  34.3
Total Current Expenditures             100.0   100.0     100.0     100.0                 Total EXper.ditures               79 7               Ic000
SELECTED MIIICATOPS                               1970      1973      1975                F-INASCINiG
(Calculated from 7-ti averag'od 'lata)            1973      1975     11950                           Sco     aig              31
Average lIOR.                                    6.12      7 07      8.69                    Foreign Aid                    65~ 2                 2__
Import tlasticity                                1.32      1.00     0.84                     Total FinancIng                76.'                100.0
Mlarginal National Savings Rate                  0.28      0.33      0.12
LABOR FCPCE AnD                             Total Labor Force
OLFT,J'21 FED. WOPKES                 In Thoausands       7. af Total
1970      1973      1970      1973
Agriculture (irclcding livestock)   306.0     315.0     85.0       75.0
Total                               360.0     420.0    100.0     130.0
tot auohice.cle       - ii or    egilc
ncot ava2.labl-       -'-le3s :.hn naif tet



*   |        bilo  ,J C;?   8  ^ ^A t
Ing  NrrN mo so£orr  "G=' 
e - e  , ._,- 4      < 



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of January 30, 1977)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan or                                                 Amount less Cancellation
Credit                                                       (US$ million)
Number    Year   Borrower           Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
249-FR    1960   MIFERMA       Iron Ore Mining          66.0
69-MAU   1964   Mauritania   Road Construction                6.7
159-MAU   1969   Mauritania   Road Maintenance                 3.0        -
273-MAU   1972   Mauritania   Livestock                        4.2        2.2
444-MAU   1973   Mauritania   Drought Relief Fund              2.5        1.3
459-MAU   1974   Mauritania   Education                        3.8       3.5
S16-MAU   1974   Mauritania    Irrigation Engineering          1.1        0.3
519-MAU   1975   Mauritania   Third Highway                    3.0        2.6
588-MAU   1975   Mauritania   Nouadhibou Port                  8.0        5.3
665-MAU   1976   Mauritania   Technical Assistance I           2.7        2.7
TOTAL                                       66.0  35.0      17.9
of which has been repaid                  66.0   0.3
Total now outstanding                         -
Amount sold                          63.4     -
of which has been repaid           63.4     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/             -   34.7      17.9
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Amount (US$ million)
Type of                                  Equity
Year     Obligor     Business                         Loan  Investment  Total
1968     SOMIMA      Copper mining
Total gross commitments                          18.8     1.2       20.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           18.8     1.2      20.0
Total commitment now held by IFC                   -       -          -
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 159-MAU - First Road Maintenance Project: US$3.0 million;
Credit Agreement: June 26, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
This project included (a) the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment, (b) the provision of technical assistance to execute a four-
year highway maintenance and betterment program, and (c) the training of
mechanics and operators. The project is completed. It has contributed to
setting up an effective maintenance organization. The major difficulty
encountered during implementation was the inability of the Government to
assign a sufficient number of counterparts to the expatriate experts as a
result of a general shortage of middle and upper level staff in Mauritania.
This project is being continued by a Third Highway Maintenance project (Credit
No. 519-MAU), hereunder described.
Cr. No. 273-MAU - Livestock Development Project: US$4.15 million;
Credit Agreement: December 17, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978 (original date: December 31, 1976)
The project included (a) the repair, reconstruction or new con-
struction of about 200 pastoral wells; (b) operation of veterinary vaccina-
tion campaigns in four consecutive years, and (c) the development and main-
tenance of 6,500 km of firebreaks during four years. Project implementation
is finally making the expected progress, with all wells, vaccination and>-
firebreak teams in the field; the program retained by the project review
commission in April 1975 is now expected to be implemented without further
delays. The animal health and firebreak components will terminate in June
1977 and the well program in June 1978. The closing date has been postponed
from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1978. Accounts for 1976 are in order
and ready for auditing; agreement on the appointment of a Project auditor
between Government and IDA is expected shortly.
Cr. No. 444-MAU - Drought Relief Fund Project: US$2.5 million;
Credit Agreement: December 7, 1973; Closing Date:
November 15, 1977 (original date: November 15, 1976)
This Credit is part of the total US$14 million provided to the six
Sahelian countries - the Republics of Tchad, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal
and Upper Volta, which were affected by the severe drought of 1968-1973. Fol-
lowing project supervision in November 1976, the project now contains five
components: (a) rehabilitation and extension of small irrigation schemes;
(b) development and improvement of irrigated vegetable production; (c) fea-
sibility study and establishment of an irrigated fodder production center
at Rosso; (d) technical assistance to the Ministry of Rural Development
and (e) a package of strengthening field operations of the MRD-through the
construction of ten small input warehouses, the purchase of pesticides and
explosives for bird control; financing the cost of distribution; building



ANNEX II
Page 3
construction for the rural development experimental unit at Nouakchott, and
construction of two sheds at the Nouakchott poultry center. The planned
fodder production Center at Rosso could not be realized because of cost
overruns and projected long-term deficits. Progress in the vegetable
subproject is satisfactory, that in the small irrigation component slow,
because of the breakdown of equipment and administrative delays. Progress
in planning the remaining field operations of the MRD to be financed under
the Project is satisfactory and the Credit should be fully disbursed by
November 15, 1977, the extended closing date of the Credit.
Cr. No. 459-MAU - Education Project: US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This project provides for (a) the establishment of a vocational
training center in Nouakchott to meet training needs for clerical, mechanical
and construction workers; (b) the establishment of a mining training program
in Nouadhibou; (c) equipment and technical assistance for the National
Pedagogical Center for the upgrading and counseling of teachers through
educational broadcasting and related teaching materials; (d) the establish-
ment of a pilot farmer training center in the irrigated rice perimeter of
M'Pourie; (e) the establishment of a farmer radio programming center at
Kaedi; (f) an experimental study of the feasibility of introducing basic
education (reading, writing, arithmetic) in the Koranic school system; and
(g) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning to help develop
better indicators of manpower demand.
The project is experiencing a substantial cost overrun due to
price escalation. The July 1975 supervision mission recommended that the
project be reduced in scope to take account of the cost overrun. The Gov-
ernment agreed to seek alternative sources of finance for two items, pri-
mary teachers upgrading program and the rural radio station. The first has
been integrated into an ongoing UNDP/FAO project, and the Government is seek-
ing assistance from other donors for the rural radio station. Good progress
is being made on the Koranic school studies, and on the vocational and mining
training programs, and implementation of the farmer training center will soon
start.
Cr. No. S-16-MAU - Irrigation Engineering Project: US$1.1 million;
Credit Agreement: June 12, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project provides for (a) the execution of the engineering
studies needed for the implementation of the first phase of the Gorgol
Basin Development Scheme; (b) the carrying out of related health and
educational studies; (c) the preparation of final designs, tender documents
and technical schedules; (d) assistance to the Government in bid evaluation;
and (e) technical assistance to the Ministry of Planning for the analysis
of rural development projects. Since the study completed in 1975 has
shown alarmingly high costs, an IBRD/FAO mission was sent in March 1976



ANNEX II
Page 4
to review project costs and the possibility of a more economic alterna-
tive. Supplementary studies to finalize a project, which would consist
of only one dam and irrigation of 3,500 ha, would be financed under the pro-
posed project.
Cr. No. 519-MAU - Third Highway Project: US$3.0 million; Credit
Agreement: December 11, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand
the maintenance and betterment efforts started under the First Road Main-
tenance Project (Cr. No. 159-MAU). The project consists of: (a) technical
assistance to relieve the shortage of qualified highway personnel and to
allow for the continuation of the training program undertaken under the
previous credit; (b) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and bet-
terment works; (c) a betterment program of about 365 km including earthworks
in new alignments to avoid sandy or periodically flooded areas, construction
of surface drainage and high river-crossing structures; and (d) a feasibil-
ity study and detailed engineering of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The
project, which costs a total of US$13.7 million, is cofinanced by the KFAED
(US$3.8 million) and the Government of Canada (US$4.2 million).    Due to in-
flation, the proposal submitted by the group of consultants for technical
assistance and the pre-investment study of the Rosso-Boghe road called for
much higher fees than estimated by our appraisal team. To avoid possible
cost overrun, the Government and the Association agreed to reduce the total
technical assistance program from 350 man/months to 200 man/months with the
balance of the program not financed by this project to be continued in a sub-
sequent project. The Credit became effective on June 8, 1976.
Cr. No. 588-MAU - Nouadhibou Port Project: US$8 million; Credit
Agreement: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
This project supports the development strategy of the fishing
sector in Mauritania. It aims to enlarge the port and improve its admin-
istration and operation. Content: (a) construction of civil works, con-
sisting of fishing and commercial berths and an approachway, a sewerage
scheme, and various buildings; (b) purchase of a harbor master's launch
and navigation aids, maintenance equipment; (c) technical assistance to
PAN for port administration, operations and reorganization of its account-
ing and financial systems; and (d) consulting services for studies on the
need for and development of ship-repair facilities. The Credit became
effective on June 2, 1976. The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 665-MAU - Technical Assistance Project: US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning
in order that it can exercise its responsibility as a central agency which
will integrate overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation and
financing of sectoral programs and their related projects. The project pro-
vides a four-year program to finance (1) five professionals for the Ministry
of Planning to elaborate long term general and sectoral strategies, set prior-
ities, identify projects, undertake economic and financial analysis, train
Mauritanian counterparts to take over their tasks; and (2) temporary consul-
tants to deal with special subjects when needed.



ANNEX III
Page 1
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Technical Assistance to SONADER
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:    SONADER
Amount:        US$3.5 million
Terms:          Standard
Relending
Terms          Same as IDA credit
Project
Description:  A three-year program of technical assistance consisting of:
(i) seven expatriate experts and seven Mauritanian profession-
als to strengthen the organizational structures of SONADER,
to identify and prepare rural projects, and to take over the
execution of a few ongoing irrigation projects; (ii) short
term consultant services to carry out studies on the Gorgol
project and on special topics (such as training) to be deter-
mined in the course of project implementation; and (iii) ac-
quisition of equipment, vehicles and related operating costs
(including fuel).
Estimated
Costs:                                                  US$ Thousand
Local     Foreign      Total
Salaries and allowances of advisors
(250 man-months) /1                                590      1,390      1,980
Salaries and allowances of
professionals (400 man/months)                     500        -          500
Consultant Budget (140 man-months)                  200        920       1,120
Equipment, vehicles and
operating costs                                     50        150        200
Contingencies                                       110        450        560
Total                                        1,450      2,910      4,360
Association's share of local cost = 40%
Contingencies of about 13 percent on base prices have been included for price
increases. As most contracts for consultants and equipment will be placed at the
outset this provision should suffice and reflect the most recent CPS guidelines.
/1   Of which:   110 man/months of senior staff and 140 man/months of junior staff.



ATNEX III
Page 2
Financing
Plan:         The proposed credit of US$3.5 million would finance 80 percent
of total project costs (net of taxes), including 100 percent
of foreign exchange and about US$0.6 million of the local costs.
The Government would provide the remainder. The proceeds of
the Credit would cover: the total cost of advisors, 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for the consultant budget and 75 percent
of equipment, vehicles, and operating costs. About US$450
thousand are left for price contingencies.
Estimated
Disbursements:           FY77       FY78       FY79      FY80      FY81      Total
Annual             0.2        1.2        1.0       0.8       0.3        3.5
Cumulative         0.2        1.4       2.4        3.2       3.5        3.5
Procurement
Arrangements: Some of the seven expatriate advisors would, at the request of the
Government, be recruited by the Association. The entire cost of
the advisors, their salaries and allowances, including costs in-
curred in their recruitment, would be covered by the proceeds of
the Credit. The Association will also help select the Mauritanian
staff to be trained under the project. All contracts for consul-
tancy services would be subject to prior approval of the Associa-
tion, except for those under US$10,000. Vehicles, and topographic,
office and drawing materials would be procured by competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures - as they apply to
SONADER - which are acceptable to IDA when such contracts exceed
US$10,000. For contracts under US$10,000, local shopping would
be employed provided the aggregate amount of such contracts do
not exceed US$50,000. Provision for retroactive financing of up
to US$200,000 is proposed to (i) facilitate early recruitment of
the team leader and of the two senior advisors, and (ii) cover
the cost of studies needed to prepare the Gorgol project.
Consultants:   Total consultant's services would amount to about 140 man/months.
Rate of
Return:       Not applicable.
Staff Pro-
ject Report:  Not applicable.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 6 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: SONADER.
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
August 1976.
(d) Date of first presentation to the Bank: August 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Association will recruit some of the advisors if requested to do
so, by the government, and administer their contracts. Soon after the signa-
ture of our Credit Agreement we will send a supervision mission which will
advise the Mauritanian government on:
(a) general organization and management of the project;
(b) preparation of disbursement requests;
(c) preparation of work programs;
(d) selection of Mauritanian staff to be trained under
the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Contracts of short-term consultancy under US$10,000
would not be subject to prior approval of the Assoc-
iation in the interest of efficient operation (para. 41).
(b) Vehicles, and topographic, office and drawing materials
would be procured by competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures - as they apply to SONADER - which
are acceptable to IDA, when such contracts exceed US$10,000.
For contracts under US$10,000, local shopping would be
employed provided the aggregate amount of such contracts
does not exceed US$50,000 (para. 42).



ANNEX V
Page 1
MAURITANIA
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF EXPATRIATES
1.   Financial Expert/Senior Advisor
Qualifications: University degree in economics or finance with a
specialization in management. Substantial experience in financing
of hydro-agricultural projects in developing countries. Knowledge
of French essential and Arabic and English desirable. The candidate
should have a demonstrated ability to deal with government officials
and other expatriate technical staff and to train local staff.
Duties: Collaborate in the preparation and control of the execution
of SONADER annual work programs; prepare corresponding investment
and operating budgets and propose adjustments, if required; collaborate
in the planning for the construction and operation of sub-projects;
appraise financing proposals; prepare procedures for financial control
of the construction and operation of sub-projects; design and monitor
a detailed training program for each Mauritanian professional; train
his deputy, to take over his own duties in due course, and assist
the Director General in the preparation of the second phase.
2.   Irrigation Engineer/Senior Advisor
Qualifications: Wide experience in planning hydro-agricultural
development; good knowledge of the construction and operating techniques
of small irrigated perimeters in developing, preferably Sahelian,
countries; knowledge of French essential and of Arabic and English
desirable; experience in dealing with other expatriates and in training
local staff.
Duties: Collaborate in the preparation and control of the execution
of SONADER annual work programs; collaborate in the identification,
appraisal and planning of sub-projects; supervise engineering studies;
control the execution of the programs related to his field; assist in
the training activities of the mission and train at least two Mauritanian
engineers.
3.   Agricultural Economist/Senior Advisor
Qualifications: Extensive experience in planning hydro-agricultural
development in developing countries; good knowledge of the agricultural
and livestock problems of the Sahelian region; good knowledge of French
essential and of Arabic and English desirable; experience in dealing
with other expatriates and in training local staff.



ANNEX V
Page 2
Duties: Collaborate in the preparation and control of the execution
of SONADER annual work programs; collaborate in the appraisal and
planning of sub-projects; supervise the economic studies for the
implementation of the sub-projects; assist in the formulation of
the mission's training program; and train at least two Mauritanian
agricultural economists.
4.   Irrigation Engineer/Junior Specialist
Qualifications: At least five years experience in planning and
supervision of irrigation works in developing, preferably Sahelian,
countries; good knowledge of bilateral and multilateral financing
procedures; good knowledge of French essential and of Arabic and
English desirable.
Duties: Collaborate with the other experts in the appraisal studies
of the sub-projects; carry out or otherwise supervise the engineering
studies for the sub-projects; supervise the construction of the works
and the technical aspects of operation and maintenance of the sub-
projects.
5.   Agricultural Economist/Junior Specialist
Qualifications: Agricultural economist with broad experience in
planning and studying hydro-agricultural schemes in developing,
preferably Sahelian countries; good knowledge of the agricultural
and livestock problems in the Sahel; knowledge of French essential
and of Arabic and English desirable.
Duties: Collaborate with the other experts in the appraisal studies
of the sub-projects; carry out and supervise the agro-economical
studies for the sub-projects.
6.   Mechanical Engineer/Junior Specialist
Qualifications: Wide experience in utilization of materials and
equipment for the construction of irrigation perimeters; very good
knowledge of the mechanical structures for irrigation (pumps, gates,
etc.) and of the operation and maintenance equipment for the peri-
meters; knowledge of French essential and of Arabic and English
desirable.
Duties: Prepare and evaluate proposals for the acquisition of
equipment needed for the construction of the works and operation of
the perimeters; control the quality of the supplied equipment;
prepare the operating procedures and control the performance and
the maintenance schedules of the equipment; and train Mauritanian
engineers.



ANNEX V
Page 3
7.   Topographer
Qualifications: Extensive experience in the study and execution
of topographic works connected with hydro-agricultural schemes;
confirmed knowledge of cartography and map interpretation and
utilization; good working knowledge of French essential, and
Arabic and English desirable.
Duties: Orientate and supervise all topographic work to be carried
out directly by SONADER or by contract; prepare and supervise and
terms of reference and specifications of the topographic studies;
train personnel; prepare and organize the annual program of topo-
graphic activities in accordance with the pace of development.






IBRD 12750
cc l2lFEBRUARY 1977
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
-      Paved Roads                  Copper
Paved Roads -nder -onstru-slor  Iron
Gravel Roads                 Dare Patis
Tracks                       F.4 Fishing
I-I I  Railroa*d                    WhaNf
*    Airfields               AGRICULTURAL ZONES
-100-  Annual Rainfall n Mli-meters  Saha   D
-  -  International Boundaries   Saharan Suob -Desert
|  Sahellen
o  5     150   250
KILOMETERS                       A L G E R I A
7-~~~~~~I
J  f o r m e r   C 2~Bir-MoghreLn.
former
S PAN I S H          
24°                   4/         SAHARA            !   ;                                                 240
Ag~~~~~~ML
NouadhiboL
a {.,5% ...   ,                       .0I
20                                                                                              200
'   f             X_                                     a   D      z    L  :C
<~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Ticijik
0.u-OT= T      _       _    _udjerGc_
6-      i      t0<;>                                                =20  chok



