OICIALNT  7SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 47 MAU
Project Agreement
(SONADER Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMEINT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated                            , 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 47 MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     P-J"ax   (4            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator) and SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVE-
LOPPEMENT RURAL (nereinafter called SONADER).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement dated April 8,
1977 between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the Association), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million five hundred thousand dollars
($3,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS by the Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has
agreed to make to the Borrower a Special Action Credit (herein-
after called the Special Action Credit) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Special Action Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SONADER agree to undertake such obligations
towards the Administrator as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SONADER, the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit will be made available to SONADER on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SONADER, in consideration of the Administrator's
entering into the Special Action Credit Agreement with the Bor-
rower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SONADER shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Special Action Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SONADER in carrying out
the Project, SONADER shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Administrator and SONADER.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be
made following competitive bidding through local advertisement
in accordance with the Borrower's procedures as they apply to
SONADER, such procedures to be satisfactory to the Administrator.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, such goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent
may be procured following local shopping, provided that the
aggregate amount of goods so procured shall not exceed $50,000
equivalent.
Section 2.04. (a) SONADER undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit relent
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by SONADER'to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, SONADER
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) Arrangements and procedures f or selecting
services and goods and directing their use under the Project,
supervising and directing the work of the consultants and for
modifying, as necessary, the consultants' terms of reference or
other terms and conditions of their employment shall be satis-
factory to the Administrator and SONADER.
(b) SONADER shall take all reasonable measures to facilitate
the work of the consultants in the performance of their services
for the Project and make available to them all information rele-
vant to the Project.
(c) SONADER shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any part
of the Project, or grant any material extension of time or any
approval of contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to
substitution of personnel of such consultants, without prior
agreement between SONADER and the Administrator. SONADER shall
promptly inform the Administrator if it proposes to suspend
payments under, or terminate any contract with, such consultants.
(d) By July 31, 1980 or such later date as the Administrator
and SONADER shall agree, SONADER shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator for its approval a comprehensive plan for training and
scholarships provided under Part C of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SONADER shall promptly furnish to the
Administrator copies of the reports and documents prepared by
the consultants employed for the Project, in such detail as
the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b) SONADER and the Administrator shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a).
(c) SONADER: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including -its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit and any relevant records and documents;


﻿4-
and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals
all such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SONADER
and the Administrator, SONADER shall prepare and furnish to the
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by SONADER and
the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Special Action Credit.
(e) SONADER shall enable the Administrator's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of SONADER and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. SONADER shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, SONADER shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) SONADER shall at the request of the
Administrator, exchange views with the Administrator with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Special Action
Credit.
(b) SONADER shall promptly inform the Administrator of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Special Action Credit, or the performance by SONADER of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section 3.01. SONADER shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan its development and maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-
tural and engineering practices under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management.
Section 3.02. SONADER shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SONADER shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SONADER shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(b) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have
reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Administrator such
other information concerning such accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Special Action Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Administrator and of SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Special Action Credit
Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its respective terms; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Special Action Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Administrator shall promptly
notify SONADER of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspersion under the Special Action Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action
Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SONADER:
Sociftg Nationale pour le
Dfveloppement Rural
B. P. 321
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telex:
807 MTN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document'required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SONADER may be taken or executed by
its Director or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing, and SONADER shall furnish to the Administrator suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION
ACCOUNT established with funds
contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
) /~                ~ K L i-6ccOLA-
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Developmeni Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixec) the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   4        day of Tvwatu
1980Q.
FOR SECRETARY


