I"T               ~~~~RESTRICTED
rILE  CN Y 1LReport No p-595
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE RIO LINDO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
May 14, 1968



MTMRNATIONIAL BAilK FOR A3GONSTItUCTION £'S DEVEDPMET
NTMIATIOIAL DEVELRIOiNT ASSOCItTION
REPORT AED RECii4DATION OF THE PICSIDMfT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIiEGTORS Oi'l A
PR.OPOSED LOAN AND A PAOPOSED
D3VELOPMIdT  RMDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE RIO LWDO HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the foJiouing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$7.5 million and on a proposed credit from the Association in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to US4.O million, both to the
Republic of Honduras, to assist in the financing of the Xio Lindo Hydro-
electric Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project is the third power project to be financed
in Honduras by the Bank Group. The first loan, made in 1959, helped finance
an interim power program for the installation of additional diesel capacity
and the rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution facilities at the
capital city of Tegucigalpa. The second loan, a year later, helped
finance the 30TAW Can'averal Hydroelectric Project, the largest pow-er pro-
ject so far built in Honduras. Both loans were made to the Empresa Nacio-
nal de 1anergia E16ctrica (ENEZ) an autonomous government corporation
responsible for promoting the electric power development of Honduras.
{EE in lNay 1967 formally applied for assistance in financing the Rio
Lindo Hydroelectric Project. The field appraisal was completed in October
1967, and since Honduras is a blend country for Bank/IDA lending it was
decided to recommend financing this project with a joint Bank loan/IDA
credit.
3.        Negotiations wiere held in WTashington on April 16-25, 1968.
The Government was represented by Mr. Victor lbya, Public Credit Chief
of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the EiEE by iMessrs. Eduardo
±4endieta (member of the Board), $rnesto Crespo (General Nlanager) and
C6sar Bat'res (Legal Adviser).
4.        The proposed loan, the eighth for Honduras, would increase the
Bank's total lending in Honduras to US$46.3 million (net of cancellations),
and the proposed credit, the third to Honduras, would increase the As-
sociation's lending in the country to i15.9 million (net of cancellations).
The following is the summary of Bank loans and IDA credits in Honduras,
as of April 30, 1968:



-2-
lo-an or                                               Amount (US$ million)
Credit   Year      BorroTer               Purpose      Blank    IDA   Undis-
Hlumber                                                               bursed
135       1955  tepublic of Honduras    Highwlay
ilaintenance  1h.2
195       1953  Republic of Honduras    Highiway
Construction  5.5            -
226       1959  )3mpresa Nacional de     Power (Inte-
Energia El6etrica       rim ProJect)  1.4             -
261       1960  Empresa Nacional de      Power (Canave-
Energia SlUctrica       ral Project)  8.3             -
1       1961  Republic of Honduras   Wiestern High-
w-ay Ext en-
sion                 8.4     -
400       1965  Republic of Honduras )  lorth .ioad  ( 6.0             6.o
71       1965            *i          )              (         3.5    1.9
463       1966  Empresa Nacional         Port (Puerto
Portuaria               Cortes)        4.8            .
495       1967  Republic of Honduras    J-Testern High-
way Paving3   8.6    -       8.6
Total (less cancellations)                   39.3  11.9  20.9
of Ti.ch has been repaid to the
Bank and others                             7.6
Total noT outstanding                    31.7
Amount sold                         2.4
of' icinh has been repaid         1.7        .7
Total nou held byr Bank and IDA            31.0  11.9
Total undisbursed                          19.0    1.9   20.9
5.        Four Bank loans and one m)A credit have been fully disbursed.
On the remainder, disburseaents are generally proceeding satisfactorily.
Construction work on the -llorth Road (loan 400-HO and credit 71-H0)
however has been delayed because the Government's consultants recomended
a new alignment on the basis of inforynation that became available after
the loan and the credit were approved. The proposed new. alignment was
accepted by the Ban'w and DA and work on thea projoct is now procedin?
normally.
6.        No further loans or credits to Honduras are expected to be ready
for presentation to the E,ecutive Directors in 1968.



7.       As of April 30, 1968, IFC had one active investment in Honduras
of $255,750 (loan outstanding and equity) in a tannery (Empresa de
Curtidos Centro-Anericana, S.A.).
PART II - DESCRIPTIOINS OF TV  PROPOSED) LOAN AND CREDIT
8.        Borrower:                The Republic of Honduras.
Beneficiary:             Dnpresa flacional de Zbergia El6ctrica
(NIdEE).
Amount:                  'Various currencies equivalent to US$7.5
million from the Bank and US$4.O million
from IDA.
Purpose:                 To finance the foreign currency cost
of: (a) the construction of the 40OiBJ
Rio Lindo Hydroelectric Scheme; (b)
the expansion of EiL's transmission
system; and (c) feasibility studies of
future development of hydroelectric
powJer in w-Testern Honduras.
An,mortization:          Bank loan - 25 years, including a
3-1/2 year period of grace, in semi-
annual installments beginning February
15, 1972 and ending February 15, 1993.
IDA credit - 50 years, including a
10-year period of grace, in semi-
annual installments beginning August
15, 1978 and ending February 15, 2018.
Interest Rate:           6-1/4 percent per annum.
(Bank loan)
Service Charge:          3/4 of lpercent per annum.
(DA credit)
Comn itiment Charge:     3/4 of 1 pcrcernt per annum.
(Bank loan>)
Aelendin- Terms:         The Governnt  ould relend the
4'oceods of both the loan and the
credit to ENE  on the same terms as
those carried by the Bank loan.



- h -
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     An appraisal report entitled 'Appraisal of the Rio Lindo ltdro-
electric Project - Empresa Nacional de Energia El6ctrica (WEE) -
HCDUiAaSn (TO-623a) on the proposed project is attached.
10.    The total electric power capacity for Honduras is about 73-.Ti
of which EIEts share is about !L7} or 65%.  In 1966 total electricity
production in Honduras was about 204 million IsJh. This represents, on
a per capita basis, the loaest production of any country in Central
America.
11.    MME was established by law in 1957 as an autonomous authority,
wholly mmed by the Governm.ent, responsible for promoting the electrical
power development of the country. ELTE is governed by a five-_.xibxer
Board of Directors, including the ilinister of Communications and Public
6Torks (Chairman), the Ainister of rlational Resources, and representatives
of the UTational Zconomic Planning Council, the National Development Bank
and the i1ational Chamber of Commlerce and Industry. A general mnanager,
appointed by the Board, is responsible for all managerial and adminis-
trative functions. The general organization of MIME is satisfactory
and, with asuistanco from consultants, its nana,na7eent and staff are
capable of carrying out the Project.
12.    The proposed Project consists in:  (a) the construction of the
4O0MI A.io Lindo Hydroelectric Scherae; (b) the expansion of iIEE's
transimission system; and (c) the provision of engineering services for
feasibility studies of future develoapent of hydroelectric power in
western Honduras. The total estimated cost of the proposed project is
US$17.7 million and the estimated foreign exchange cost, to  be covered
by the proposed loan and credit, is US$11.5 million. The project is
expected to be completed by the end of 1970. A financing plan satis-
factory to the Bank has been prepared by ET  for the period 1967-71
and its total financial requirements for that period (including debt
service) wsill be covered, in addition to the proposed loan and credit,
'oy EL:Eits internal cash generation (32%), by borrowving froim other sources
(21t) and byj capital contributions by the Aepublic of Honduras (3O).
13.     2i"M,'s po=mr sales increased at an average rate of over 25
per annum in 1966 and 1967. This high rate of grovth was large  due
to the very rapid growth of sales in the proeporoUo San Pedro Sula area
in northern 1onduras. Total sales by  MIIE are estimated to increase at
an average annual rate of about 20% during the period 1967 through 1971
and at an average rate of about ll; per annum durin- 1972 through 1977.
The Project is needed to meet this grow-ing demand for power on EUZE's
syster anc> is the most economic alternative mneans of me-etin, this demand.



-5-
.14.      All contracts except those for engineering services will be
anarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Disbursements
will be made only for the foreign currency costs of imported equipment
and services.  x.penditures prior to the  date of the loan rill not be
eligible for reiimbursement.
15.       ,ts financial position is sound and is expected to remain so.
It is estimated that Ei*TI's rate of return on plant in operation will be
over ll1 per year on- the average during the construction period of the
Project. Coverage by internal cash generation of total debt service
requiremrents during this period is also satisfactory.
PAhT IV - L2GAL fISTRtETITS AiD AUTHO±ITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement and draft Developuent Cradit Agreement
betveen the Republic of Honduras and respectively the Banlk and the Asso-
ciation, and the draft Project Agreement betwTeen the Bank and the Asso-
ciation and the nmpresa IJacional de 3nergia El6ctrica, which contain the
covenants normally utilized for powTer projects, as iwell as the Report and
thVi 1/ocorvendation of tlhe Corzittees provided for in Article IIl, Section
4 (iii) of the lrticles of A3Teaeient of the Bank and in hrticle V, Section
1(d) oi7 the Artielco of A,reeomnt of the J1,ssociation, respoctively, are being
distributed to the I:4:ecutive Directors separately.
PAiRT V - TIM MCON1fY
17.       Honduras, with a gross national product per capita of approx-
imately US$230, is the poorest of the Central American countries and one
of the poorest in Latin America.  The last IBiLD economic report dealing
wSith Honduras (WTH-170a, dated June 5, 1967), observed that during 1961-
1965 rapid economic growth had taken place, thanks to an impressive
performance of e::ports both to the woorld markets (coffee, cotton, and
in 1965, bananas) and to the rest of the Central American Comon Narket,
In tlhe same period the3 financial perfor:-iance, especially after the 1962
tax reforu., had been good, although  fiscal equilibrium was due in large
part to a poor invos-tment efort.  However, witha the imuch poorer prospect
for exports in thle next few years, future growth prospects wrere not good
unless considerable increase took place in the development effort and in
the resource mobilization required to finance it. Specifically, there
appeared to be an urgent need for improvement in project preparation and
administration, for higher taxes, and for larger long-term borrowring
from abroad.  Debt service payments, that in 1965  mere equivalent to 2.3
percent of eTport earnings, were thus expected to increase substantially,
even wyith some portion of external assistance forthcomning on concessionary
terms.
18.       The general backgrolmd for this conclusion has not changed sig-
nificantly since the retort w-as  ritten.  In 1966, GHP growth w7as well
belowr the previous years, at about 4.7 percent in real terms, i.e., some



- 6 -
1.3 percent on a per capita basis, and in 1967, as a result the leveling
off of e-ports (due to a drop in coffee and cotton exports), the rate of
growth in COP declined further to some 3.5-4.0 percent, or barely above
the rate of growrth in population. International reserves, that had in-
creased steadily in the previous years, declined in 1967. Public sav-
ings on current account increased in 1966, but fell back in 1967, due
to larCe current e:penditures, particularly for healtl and education.
Dela;ys in project iipleaentation klept public investmts at a lour level,
well belowr budgetary targets. Debt service pawe-nts increased marg,inally
to US j3.5 million in 1967, enuivalent to about 3 percent of export earn-
ings.
19.       The Honduran Governrnent entered on January 1, 1963 in a one-
year stand-by arranf-euent wyith the IMF for US$11 million., w4hich is based
on a financial program that includes significant public revenue and
e.penditure measures. TMe Honduran Government intends to present to
Cong-ress by June 1963 a fiscal packeage that lwould provide for increases
in the yields of income and property taxes, e.cise tares on luxury
iteims, the inheritance and donation tax, and public utility tariffs.
Furthermore, economies c-ntered on reducing non-developmental expenditures
will be introduced in the course of the year. In fact, the President
of Honduras recently directed the Govern.ment to cut the 1968 budget
current expenditures by 4 million lempiras, or by 3.4 percent. If fully
implemented, the progran will raise 1969 public savings to a level adequate
to support a higher development effort wvithout endangering price stability
and putting under pressure the level of international reserves.
20.       On the basis of the projects now under wsay or about to be
implemiented, a significant increase in Government capital outlays is
likely in 1968, although the present Government investment target
(that uould imply a 1966 investment level more than tt?o and a half times
as high as in 1967), is not likely to be achieved. The hiigh disbursement
rate on foreign loans in prospect for 1968 should, howrever, be sufficient
to ensure at least a partial Success of the investment effort for this
year.
21.       Traditional exports and private investrments are ex,pected to
increase significantly in 1963.  Important road, power and port projects
are being carried out.  Le-islation on industrial incentives that grants
preferential treatment to Honduras w-ras recently approved by the Central
American Cormon Aarket countries. The rate of grow-th in GWP in 1968 is
expected to be sozmewhat higher than in 1967, around 5-6 percent.
22.       However, the 1969 and longer-term possibilities of development
depend primarily on the ability of the Honduran Government to introduce
effective fiscal and administrative reforms, iwithout further delay.  Vast
regions of the country are still isolated and their economic potential
untapped: rapid expansion of infrastructure (por.3er, roads, telecommuni-
cations) is required to promote their development, and this implies a
major and immediate public effort, both on project preparation and on
financial measures to support the higher expenditure levels. Adoption



of the proposed import surcharge which  is now- being considered by all
the Central American countrios for possible enactment this summer
would contribute substantially towiird such a higher development effort.
Another development w-hich wrill have a considerable impact on the whole
economy, is represented by a large pulp and paper project, whose initia-
tion is expected in 1969.
23.    According to the present fiscal program of the ionduran Govern-
ment, gross external financing wrould cover on average about 65 percent
of the public investment expenditures over the next three years. This
share compares with a 60 percent share of much low-.er investment expenditures
in 1963-67.  The total external public debt, that in mid-1967 amounted
to US$88.1 million, wsould increase significantly and could reach by the
end of 1968 some US$',120 million.  If all new loans yere to be incurred
on conventional tenais, debt service naynents would steadily increase to
about 7 percent of export earnings in the md-1970's;  servicing of
new loans would absorb approximately 15 percent of the expected increase
in exports earnings and an even higher proportion of the foreseeable
increase in Government revenues.  In these circumstances, some assistance
to Honduras on concessional terms seems appropriate.
PART VI - GOiPLI.TAMCME WITH ARTICLES OF AGR&2 IBUT
24.     I an satisfied that the proposed loan and the proposed credit
would comply respectively w-rith the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and of the Association.
PART VII - RMC0iEE1fl)ATIOT
25.     I recomnend:
(a)  that the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt the
lollowing resolution:
AMSOLUTIOW 140.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Honduras in an
amount equivalent to US') 7,500,000
R3SXLV M:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Renublic of Honduras in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hun-
dred thousand United States dollars (US. 7,500,000), to mlature on and
prior to February 15, 1993, to bear interest at the rate of six and



one-quarter per cent (6-1/4%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance wJith the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Rio 1i.ndo Hydro-
electric Project) betreen the Republic of Honduras and the Bank and in
the form of Project Agreement (Rio Idndo Hydroelectric Project) between
the Bank, the International Development Association and Empresa ilacional
de Energia a'ectrica, which have been presented to this meeting.
(b) and that the Executive Directors of the Association
adopt the following resolution:
RESOLUTIOjI NO.
Approval of Development Credit to the Republic of Honduras
in an amount equivalent to US$ 4,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Honduras in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four million United States dollars (US$ 4,000,000) to mature on and
prior to February 15, 2018, to bear a  service charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 11%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit
Agreement (Rio Lindo Hydroelectric Project) between the Republic of
Honduras and the Association and the form of Project LA{roement (Rio
Lindo Hydroelectric Project) between the Association, the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Empresa iTacional de Energia
El4ctrica, w-hich have been presented to this meeting.
Attachment                                   Robert S. 14i6amara
President
W1ashington, D.C.
.aY3, 1h, 1963



