LOAN NUMBER 541 HO
CREDIT NUMBER 116 HO
Project Agreement
(Rio Lindo Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
DATED JUNE 12, 1968


﻿LOAN NUMBER 541 HO
CREDIT NUMBER 116 HO
Project Agreement
(Rio Lindo Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
DATED JUNE 12, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1968, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT AssOcIATION (hereinafter called the Association),
parties of the first part, and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA
ELECTRICA (hereinafter called ENEE), party of the second
part.
WHEREAS by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Honduras and the Bank (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) the Bank has agreed to
make a Loan to the Republic of Honduras (hereinafter
called the Borrower) in various currencies in ar amount
equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($7,500,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, to be relent to ENEE, but only on con-
dition that ENEE agree to undertake certain obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement)
the Association has agreed to make a Credit to the Bor-
rower in various currencies in an amount equivalent to
four million dollars ($4,000,000) on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, to
be relent to ENEE, but only on condition that ENEE
agree to undertake certain obligations toward the Asso-
ciation as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS ENEE, in consideration of the Bank's and the
Association's entering into the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Loan Agreement and in the Development
Credit Agreement shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) ENEE shall carry out the Project,
described in the Loan and Development Credit Agree-
ments, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering and financial practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) To assist it in carrying out the Project, ENEE shall
employ consultants acceptable to, and to an extent and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Bank, the
As.:ociation and ENEE.
(c) In carrying out the Project, ENEE shall employ
contractors acceptable to and to an extent satisfactory to,
the Bank, the Association and ENEE, employed under
contracts satisfactory to the Bank, the Association and
ENEE.
SECTION 2.02. ENEE shall apply the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit relent to it by the Borrower under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement exclusively to financing
the cost of goods required to carry out the Project and,
except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise
agree, shall cause all goods financed out of such proceeds
to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.03. (a) ENEE shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association upon request by the Bank and the Associa-


﻿tion from time to time, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications and construction schedules for the
Project and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall
from time to time request.
(b) ENEE shall maintain records adequate to identify
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of ENEE; shall enable the Bank's and the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
and all facilities operated by ENEE and any relevant rec-
ords and documents; and shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association all such information as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the
Project, the goods and the administration, operations and
financial condition of ENEE.
(c) ENEE shall have its financial statements (balance
sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses)
audited annually by an independent accountant or account-
ing firm, acceptable to the Bank and the Association, and
shall promptly after their preparation and not later than
four months after the close of ENEE's fiscal year transmit
to the Bank and the Association, certified copies of such
audited statements and a signed copy of such accountant's
or such firm's report. The provisions of this Section super-
sede all prior agreements between the Bank and ENEE
relating to the audit of the financial statements of ENEE
and the furnishing to the Bank of such statements.
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Bank, the Association and ENEE
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Loan, the Credit and this Agreement shall be accomplished.
To that end, each of them shall furnish to the other all


﻿6
such information as it shall reasonably request with regard
to the general status of the Project.
(b) The Bank, the Association and ENEE shall from
time to time exchange views through their representatives
with regard to matters relating to the Loan, the Credit,
the Project, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ENEE and the matters covered by this Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. ENEE shall
promptly inform the Bank and the Association of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the Credit,
the Project or the performance by ENEE of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. ENEE shall effect from time to time such
adjustments in its rates for the sale of electricity as shall
be necessary to provide revenues sufficient to: (i) cover
operating expenses, including taxes and levies, if any, ade-
quate maintenance and depreciation and (ii) produce a
reasonable return on its total net fixed assets in operation.
The provisions of this Section supersede all prior agree-
ments between the Bank and ENEE relating to such adjust-
ments by ENEE.
SECTION 2.06. (a) Except as the Bank and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, ENEE shall not incur any debt
unless ENEE's net revenue for the fiscal year, or a later
twelve consecutive months' period, immediately preceding
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall
be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service re-
quirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all ENEE's
debt, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt except debt in-
curred in the ordinary course of business and ma-
turing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after its incurrence;


﻿7
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
(i) under a contract or loan agreement, on the date
it is drawn down pursuant to such contract or loan
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such guar-
antee shall have been entered into;
(iii) the term  "net revenue" means gross operating
revenue, adjusted to take account of rates in effect
at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue re-
lates, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative ex-
penses, but before provision for depreciation and
debt service requirement;
(iv) the term  "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges on debt;
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the cur-
rency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by ENEE, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so ob-
tainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reason-
ably determined by the Bank and the Association.
(b) The provisions of this Section supersede all prior
agreements between the Bank and ENEE limiting the in-
curring, assumption or guaranteeing of debt by ENEE.
SECTION 2.07. (a) ENEE shall at all times carry out its
functions in accordance with sound management principles,


﻿8
(b) ENEE shall at all times maintain its existence and
right to carry on its operations and shall, except as the
Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
(c) ENEE shall operate and maintain its plants, equip-
ment and other property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices; and shall at all times
operate such plants, equipment and property and maintain
its financial position in accordance with sound business and
public utility practices.
(d) ENEE shall not, without the consent of the Bank and
the Association, sell or otherwise dispose of all or sub-
stantially all of its property and assets or all or substan-
tially all of the property included in the Project or of any
plant the cost of which is financed in whole or in part out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit.
SECTION 2.08. (a) ENEE shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Bank and the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with sound practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
ENEE undertakes to insure or cause to be insured the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Credit against marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by ENEE to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 2.09. ENEE shall pay or cause to be paid all
taxes or fees, if any, imposed under the laws of the Bor-


﻿9
rower or laws in effect in the territories of the Borrower
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or
registration of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement or the Bonds, or the pay-
ment of principal, interest or other charges thereunder;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of, or fees upon, payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such
Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or corporate
resident of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.10. ENEE shall pay or cause to be paid all
taxes and fees, if any, imposed under the laws of the coun-
try or countries in whose currency the Loan, the Credit
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the terri-
tories of such country or countries on or in connection with
the execution, issue, delivery or registration of this Agree-
ment, the Loan Agreement, the Development Credit Agree-
ment or the Bonds.
SECTION 2.11. Except as the Bank and the Association
shall otherwise agree, ENEE shall not create or permit to
be created any mortgage, pledge, charge or other lien on
any of its property or assets; provided, however, that the
foregoing provision of this Section shall not apply to
(i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property and (ii) any lien arising in the ordi-
nary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the Effective Date of the Loan Agreement. If,
pursuant to Section 7.03 of the Loan Agreement or Sec-
tion 6.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement shall


﻿10
be terminated, the Bank and the Association shall promptly
notify ENEE of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and deter-
mine (i) on the date on which both the Loan Agreement
and the Development Credit Agreement shall have termi-
nated or (ii) on the date on which all principal, interest
and other charges payable by ENEE to the Borrower under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been paid,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to any party
under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver
thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor -.- all the
action of such party in respect of any default, or any
acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or
subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement or any
other agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radio-
gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿11
For the Bank and the Association:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For ENEE:
Empresa Nacional de Energia Elctrica
Apartado 99
Tegucigalpa, D. C.
Honduras
Cable address:
ENEE
Tegucigalpa, D. C.
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement, the Loan Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement on behalf of ENEE may
be taken or executed by the Gerente of ENEE or such
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNEss WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿12
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION
By   /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
By /s/ ERNESTO CRESPO
Authorized Representative


