Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c4fL- i S- '-4+A
Report No. 7059-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 12, 1988
Country Department III
Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World 3ank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00     -  Y 3.7
Y 1.00      -  US$0.27
(As of December 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)         -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    -    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      -    2.47 acres
1 mu                -    0.067 ha
1 ton (t)           -    1,000 kg
-    2,205 pounds
1 kg                -    2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC       - Agricultural Bank of China
ATM       - Agricultural Trade Market
CCIEC     - China Chemical Import & Export Corporation
CMC       - China Machinery Corporation
CNTIC     - China National Technical Import Corporation
DAP       - Diammonium phosphate
DCA       - Development Credit Agreement
ERR       -Economic Rate of Return
ICB       - International Competitive Bidding
LCB       - Local Competitive Bidding
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
LIB       - Limited International Bidding
MWREP     - Ministry  of Water Resources and  Electric Power
NMWRB     - Nei Monggol Water Resources Bureau
NPV       - Net Present Value
NXWRB     - Ningxia Water Resources Bureau
O & M     - Operation and Maintenance
OMM       - Operation and Maintenance Mannual
PCBC      - People's Construction Bank of China
PCC       - Project Coordinating Committee
PMO's     - Project Management Offices
SMC's     - Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
SPC       - State Planning Commission
WRB       - Water Resources Bureau



FOR OMCIAL USE ON'LY
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower             People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries        Nei Monggol and Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Regional Governments
Credit Amount:       SDR 72.7 million
(US$ 103 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:        Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Relending Terms:    From Government to Nei Monggol and Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Regions: 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 4% and commitment fee of 0.5% p.a.
Project Obiectives
and  Description:    The  main objectives of the proposed project are  (a)  to
increase the efficiency and profitability of agricultural
production in Nei Monggol and (b) to alleviate absolute
poverty in Ningxia. In the Hetao area of Nei Monggol, the
project would rehabilitate and complete existing drains and
canals serving 210,000 ha of presently low-yielding cropland
and marginal grazing area. In the Yinnan area of Ningxia, it
would upgrade and complete irrigation and drainage works on
22,000 ha and open up 14,200 ha of newly irrigated land. By
ensuring a more reliable water supply, providing agricultural
inputs such as fertilizer and plastic mulch, and strergthening
extension services, the project would expand production of
wheat, corn, oilseed, sugar beet, fruits, fodder crops, and
livestock. A resettlement component in Ningxia would relocate
11,000 poor farm families on newly irrigated land and provide
infrastructure and support services. The project would also
provide local and overseas training for technical and managerial
staff, farmers, and extension workers.
At full development, annual incremental output is expected
to include 133,000 tons of wheat, 181,000 tons of corn and
other grains, 38,000 tons of oilseeds, over 600,000 tons of
sugar beet, fruits and vegetables, over 12,000 tons of lamb
and other meats, 2,300 tons of wool, and additional
quantities of timber and animal hides. The total incremental
output value will be about US$93 million annually. The project
would improve income levels and living standards for about
122,600 households, including 96,300 and 15,500 families
currently residing in Hetao and Yinnan respectively and an
addit'onal 11,000 families to be relocated in Yinnan.
No major risks are anticipated.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizFtion.



-il-
Estimated Costs:                   Local         Foreign        Total
---(US$ million-----------
H.tao:
Drainage & Irrigation          73.6           38.3           111.9
Buildings                       3.0            1.3             4.3
Machinery, Equip. and
agricultural materials         2.9           16.6            19.6
Training & Tech. Assist.        1.2            0.9             2.1
Engineering/Management          2.5            0.3             2.8
Base Cost                83.5            57.1          140.6
Physical Contingency            3.1            2.3             5.4
Price Contingency               4.4            6.6            11.0
Total                     91.0           66.0           157.0
Yinnan:
Drainage & Irrigation          24.9           20.3            45.2
Resettlement                    8.0            8.0            16.0
Machinery, Equip. and
agricultural materials           0            4.1             4.1
Training & Tech. Assist.        0.5            0.5             1.0
Engineering/Management          1.8            0.2             2.0
Yinbei Studies                  1.9            0.8             2.7
Base Cost                 37.0           33.8           70.8
Physical Contingency            1.6            1.5             3.1
Price Contingency               1.2            1.8             3.0
Total                     39.8           37.1            76.9
Grand Total Project           130.0          103.0           234.0
Financing Plan:
Hetao:  IDA                            0            66              66
Central Government            11             0              11
Regional Government           80             0              80
91            66            157
Yinnan: IDA                            0            37              37
Central Go ernment /a          0
Regional Government           40             0              40
40            37              77
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY               1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Hetao: Annual       2.6       10.4    14.7    16.1    14.6    6.4      1.2
Cumulative   2.6      13.0    27.7    43.8    58.4   64.8    66.0
Yinnan: Annual      2.6        8.4    11.6     9.7     4.7      -       -
Cumulative  2.6      11.0    22.6    32.3    37.0       -       -
Project: Annual     5.2       18.8    26.3    25.8    19.3    6.4      1.2
Cumulative  5.2      24.0    50.3    76.1    95.4  101.8   103.0
Economic rate of return:    Hetao: 21%  Yinnan: 17%  Overall Project: 20%
/a: Provides indirect support through the "Three Xi" Commission.



-iii-
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PRWOECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.   BACKGROUND                                                   1
A. Introduction                                              1
B. Agriculture and Water Resources in China                  I
C. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Operations                   4
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement                             5
II.  THE PROJECT AREAS                                            6
A. Location                                                  6
B. Climate                                                   6
C. Topography                                                7
D. boils                                                     7
E. Farm Size, Land Usie, and Population                      8
F. Present Irrigation and Drainage Facilities                9
G. Regional Irrigation Agencies                             10
H. Infrastructure and Support Services                      12
III. THE PROJECT                                                 15
A. Project Objectives and Relation to Sector                15
B. Project Description                                      15
C. Project Features in Nei Monggol                          17
D. Project Features in Ningxia                              20
E. Water Supply, Demand and Quality                         23
F. Status of Design                                         23
G. Implementation Schedule                                  24
H. Cost Estimates                                           24
I. Financing                                                26
J. Procurement                                              26
K. Disbursements                                            29
L. Accounts and Audits                                      30
M. Environmental Effects                                    30
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                         31
A. Project Coordinating Committees
and Management Offices                                 31
B. Financial Arrangements                                   33
C. Execution of Project Works                               34
D. Operation and Maintenance                                34
E. Management of Production Activities                      35
F. Project Launch Workshop                                  36
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting                     36
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission in
June 1987 and an appraisal mission in September 1987. Members of
the preappraisal mission were L. S. Tay, J. Doolette (Bank/IDA),
P. Harrell and A. Piazza (Consultants). The appraisal mission
comprised L. S. Tay, P. Harrell and A. Piazza.



-iv-
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, KA D PRICES                           37
A. Production                                              37
B. Markets                                                 40
C. Prices                                                  42
VI.  PRODUCTION, BENEFITS, AND RISKS                            45
A. Production and Benefits                                 45
B. Farm Incomes                                            45
C. Cost and Rent Recovery                                  46
D. Economic Analysis                                      47
E. Project Risks                                          49
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                49
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 3.' - Project Cost Summary                           25
Table 3.2 - Procurement Arrangements                       29
Table 5.1 - Crop Areas, Yields and Production              38
Table 5.2 - Regional and National Annual Net Trade
in Principal Project Outputs                  41
Table 5.3 - Prices for Selected Inputs and Outputs         43
Table 6.1 - Summary of Rate of Return Analysis            48
ANNEXES
1. Background Data:
Table 1 - Basic Statistics (Hetao)
Table 2 - Basic Statistics (Yinnan)
Table 3 - Climatic Data (Hetao & Yinnan)
Table 4 - Irrigation Schedules and Quantities (Hetao & Yinnan)
2. Cost Data:
Table 1 - Cost Summary (Hetao)
Table 2 - Expenditure Schedule (Hetao)
Table 3 - Expected Price Increases (Hetao)
Table 4 - Cost Estimates for Trunk Drain and Canal (Hetao)
Table 5 - Cost Estimates for D & I Network Improvement and
On-farm Works (Hetao)
Table 6 - Estimates for Machinery, Equipment &
Materials (Hetao)
Table 7 - Cost Summary (Yinnan)
Table 8 - Expenditure Schedule (Yinnan)
Table 9 - Expected Price Increases (Yinnan)
Table 10- Estimates for Civil and On-farm Wor1ks (Yinnan)
Table 11- Detailed Estimates for Settlement (Yinnan)
Table 12- Estimates for Machinery, Equipment and
Materials (Yinnan)
Table 13- Disbursement Schedule (Hetao & Yinnan)
Table 14- Training and Technical Assistance (Hetao)
Table 15- Training and Technical Assistance (Yinnan)



- V
Table 16 - Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule
for Yinbei Studies (Yinnan)
Table 17 - Cost Estimates for Agricultural Component (Hetao)
Table 18 - Key Honitoring Indicators (Hetao)
Table 19 - Key Monitoring Indicators (Yinnan)
3. Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Farmgate Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs
Table 2 - Selected Conversion Factors
Table 3 - Crop Budget at Full Development (Hetao)
Table 4 - Crop Budget at Full Development (Lift Irrigation,Yinnan)
Table 5 - Fruit Tree Budget (Yinnan)
Table 6 - Farm Models
Table 7 - Rent and Cost Recovery
Table 8 - Economic Costs and Benefits (Hetao)
Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits (Jinyintan,Yinnan)
Table 10- Economic Costs and Benefits (Lift Irrigation, Yinnan)
Table 11- Sensitivity Analysis
4. Environmental Impact Studies of the Wuliangshuhai Lake (Hetao)
5. Ningxia Resettlement Component
6. Related Documents and Data in the Project File
Charts
1. Nei Honggol Irrigation Agencies
2. Ningxia Irrigation Agencies
3. Nei Monggol: Organization for Project Management
4. Ningxia: Organization for Project Management
Figures
Figure 1 - Implementation Schedule
Maps
IBRD Map No.20286 - Nei Monggol - Ningxia Hui Autonomous Regions
IBRD Map No.20287 - Hetao Componet
IBRD Map No.20288 - Yinnan Component



CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1     The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
xinancing a project to improve and expand irrigated areas along the
upper reaches of the Yellow River in the Nei Monggol and Ningxia Hui
Autonomous Regions. In the Hetao area of Nei Monggol, the project
would improve drainage on 163,000 ha of low-yielding cropland and
extend the irrigation network to an additional 47,000 ha of saline
wasteland. In the Yinnan area of Ningxia, it would provide irrigation
to 14,200 ha of presently uncultivated land and upgrade and complete
irrigation and drainage works on another 22,000 ha. The project would
expand production of wheat, corn, oilseed, sugar beet, fruits, fodder
crops, and livestock, primarily sheep and cattle. It would supply
fertilizers, plastic mulch and breeding stock and would strengthen
research and extension services.  The project's training and technical
assistance component would include short courses and overseas study
tours for project management staff and demonstration and training
activities for farmers and extension workers. A resettlement
component would provide housing, agricultural machinery and inputs,
electricity, water supply, roads, and social services to 11,000 poor
farm families who would be relocated onto the newly Irrigated land in
Yinnan. The prime objective of project activities in Nei Monggol
would be to make agricultural production more efficient and
profitable. In Ningxia, it would be to alleviate absolute poverty.
B. Agriculture and Water Resources in China
Agriculture Sector
1.2    Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is a major
source of income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for
about 35% of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million of China's 960
million ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive with large
inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers, and water. Nearly
half of the cropped area is irrigated. Food grains occupy about 70%
of the crop land and account for about one-third of total agricultural
outout. This intensive system of food production has allowed China to
meet the basic food requirements of its population, about 22% of the
world's total, from less than 11% of the world's arable land.
1.3   Major revisions in farm policies since 1979, most importantly, a
shift from collective to household-managed farming and substantial
increases in farm prices, have led to rapid growth and diversification
in agricultural production. The system of contracting out
collectively-owned land and equipment to individual households has
given farmers more flexibility in determining what crops to grow, how
to grow them, and where to market their output. Results have been



-2-
dramatic: production increased by 10% per year over the period 1980-
85 in comparison with an average of 3% per year in the preceding 23
years, Grain output reached a record 407 million tons in 1984, 34%
greater than in 1978, despite a reduction in area sown to grain.
1.4   In 1985, the Government began a new phase of reform, replacing
mandatory procurement quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusting
procurement prices, and greatly enlarging the role of the market.
These measures, and the price fluctuations resulting from them,
contributed to a decline in grain and cotton outplt and hectarage &s
farmers shifted production into higher-priced cash crops and
livestock. Grain production fell from the 1984 high of 407 million
tons to 379 in 1985 and 391 in 1986.   Objectives for agriculture
during the 7th Five-year Plan (1986-1990) are to maintain per capita
grain consumption at current levels while continuing to diversify the
overall output structure to accommodate changing consumer preferences.
This means increasing food grain output to 425 million tons by 1990 to
match population growth, boosting production of fruits, vegetables,
meat, poultry, fish, and cash crops, and expanding output of processed
products. To achieve sector growth, Chinese planners, on the one hand,
are calling for technology improvements and maintaining sown area at
current levels, and, on the other, are supporting a series of systemic
reforms which include: (a) creating a regulatory framework consisting
of price, taxation, credit, and legal mechanisms to guide development
of the rural economy; (b) allowing diverse forms of enterprise
ownership and management to encourage growth of rural agro-processing,
transport, and commerce; (c) reducing the scope of contract
procurement, reducing consumer subsidies, and enlarging the role of
the market; and (d) establishing legal guarantees to farmers regarding
land use rights and ownership of assets.
Water Resources Development
1.5    China's water resources are limited and unevenly distributed.
About 45% of China's total land area is located in regions with less
than 400 mm annual rainfall, mostly in the north, west and northwest.
Regions with more than 800 mm, primarily in the east and southeast,
account for one-third of China's arable land and about one-half of its
population. About two-thirds of China's land area, but only one-sixth
of its surface flow volume, occur north of the Changjiang (Yangtze
River). In an effort to make more efficient use of scarce water
resources and to solve China's peremnial problems of drought, flood
and famine, the Government since 1949 has supported major investments
in irrigation and flood control works. Total irrigated area expanded
from about 16 million ha in 1949 to a current figure of about 47
million ha, of which about 90% is from surface sources and 10% from
groundwater. China's irrigated areas, which have an estimated
productivity twice that of rainfed areas, account for about two-thirds
of total grain production and three-fourths of total output of
commercial crops. The expansion of irrigation facilities has been a
major factor in the increase in grain production from about 164
million tons in 1952 to around 400 million tons by the mid-1980s.
However, lack of adequate control structures and the poor condition of
many on-farm works limit irrigation efficiency, which ranges from 30



to 550 for surface water irrigation systems./l Inadequate investment
in construction and maintenance of drainage systems has acted as a
further constraint to productivity over much of the existing irrigated
area.
Water Resources Agencies
1.6   The Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP)
oversees all activities in the water resources and electric power
sectors, including planning, design, construction, and operation of
water and power development projects of regional importance. MW2EP
has 14 departments, four of them technical departments specific to the
water and power sectors (Water Management, Irrigation and Drainage,
Electricity Production, and Rural Electrification) and the other ten
functional departments, such as Planning, Labor and Wages, and
Finance, with separate water and power sections within each. MWREP
also directly administers institutions of higher education, agencies
responsible for construction, research, and design, and regional
commissions for power and water resources. The six river basin
commissions--which include the Yellow River Commission--are primarily
responsible for design and regulation of large irrigation and flood
control works which require inter-provincial coordination. Provinces
and autonomous regions have their own water resources and power
agencies, usually organized as separate bureaus, which are
administratively responsible to the provincial/regional governments
and receive technical guidance from MWREP.  The schedule for annual
water allocation from China's major rivers is based on proposals from
the provincial/regional water resources bureaus which are reviewed by
the State Planning Commission (SPC) with final adjustments made by
MWREP; control of the actual diversion of water is provided through
the river basin commissions. In the past few years, the provinces and
regions have assumed increasing responsibility for initiating and
funding new projects in water resources development. Those which
involve major river diversion and control schemes and/or central
government funding require SPC approval. MWREP must also approve the
design work for any project over Y30 million.
C. Sectoral Oblectives and Bank Operations
1.7    The Government's long-term objectives in the agricultural
sector are (1) to increase and diversify the production of food, feed
and cash crops to meet requirements created by population and income
growth, and (2) to raise employment opportunities and incomes in rural
areas. Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita),
emphasis is being placed on increasing the productivity of existing
cropped areas and developing efficiently the remaining unutilized
land. Consistent with this approach, water resources development
policy has given priority to increasing the efficiency of existing
irrigation systems through completion and rehabilitation of irrigation
\1/ The reference here is to system efficiency; that is, the ratio
between the amount of water received at the inlet to a service unit
area and that released from the diversion point (intake, headworks, or
pumping station).



- 4 -
and drainage structures and improved water management. MKWREP projects
expansion of irrigated area by about eight million ha by the year
2000, mostly through additions and improvements to existing schemes.
Over half of this planned expansion would take place in the rice
region south of the Huai River, about 1.6 million ha in the North
China Plain, and the remainder in the Northeast, in the North along
the great bend in the Yellow River, and in the far Northwest. MWREP
has also instituted a large-scale program to reduce waterlogging and
salinity on presently cultivated land through improved structures and
improved management. This is of critical importance in the Yellow
River Basin which has only limited water resource potential, a major
problem of heavy sediment buildup, and few suitable sites for
construction of new storage reservoirs and gravity irrigation systems.
In the Nei Monggol-Ningxia irrigation area, inadequate attention to
drainage after years of continuous irrigation has led to salinity
problems which now affect an estimated 55% of irrigated area in Nei
Monggol and 22% in Ningxia.
1.8   The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector
has been to support the Government's efforts to expand and diversify
agricultural output through more efficient use of human and physical
resources. Lending to date has covered a broad spectrum of geographic
areas and subsectors, with an overall focus on land development,
upgrading agricultural support services (such as research and credit),
strengthening specialized product subsectors (such as rubber and
fisheries), and, more recently, area development. The area
development approach generally targets difficult agro-technical
development problems and combines in a single project assistance to
crop and livestock development and the strengthening of various
support services. The Bank's involvement with water resources
development in China was initially in the context of land development
projects: the North China Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) focussed on
drainage improvement, irrigation from groundwater, and desalinization,
and the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Ln. 2261-/Cr. 1237-CHA)
is constructing a drainage system to open up 200,000 ha of virgin
lands. Of the area development projects, the Pishihang-Chaohu Area
Development Project (Ln. 2479/Cr. 1606-CHA) was the first to involve
the Bank in large-scale surface irrigation and flood control in China
and the first to be managed through MWREP. The s'tbsequent Xinjiang
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1764-CHA) and the Gansu
Provincial Development Project (Cr. 1793-CHA, Ln. 6443-CHA), which are
being implemented by MAAF and Gaxtsu Province respectively, support
extension and improvement of irrigated area mainly through
exploitation of groundwater (Xinjiang) and river diversion schemes
(Gansu). Implementation of ongoing Bank Group-financed projects in
the agriculture sector is on schedule. Notable features of all the
projects to date are the high standard of management at the central,
provincial and county levels and the enthusiastic participation of
households and collectives.
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.9   In spite of the remarkable progress noted above (para. 1.2),
rural growth has also entailed some new problems, key among them (1)
loss of cultivated land to non-agricultural uses and a decline in



total grain production in 1985 and 1986, and (2) widening income
disparities between poor, backward parts of China, mainly in the
northwest a-rd southwest, and the more prosperous eastern coastal
areas. In response, the Government has encouraged the growth of grain
production through land reclamation, the improvement and expansion of
irrigated area, and raising crop yields. Government policy has also
supported increased investments in the poorer parts of China so as to
reduce geographical income disparities.   Both of the proposed project
areas have the potential for marked expansion in output: in Hetao,
through improvements in drains, canals and system management on
existing irrigated land, and in Yir.nan, through system completion and
opening up new areas to irrigated crop cultivation. Expansion in
output would lead to increased incomes and living standards for
122,000 farm families, some 23,000 of them now living in extreme
poverty in Ningxia. The major rationale for IDA involvement in the
project is to make available to the Nei Monggol and Ningxia water
resources agencies the Bank Group's experience in establishing
irrigation, drainage, and rural development schemes in other parts of
the world. In particular, IDA involvement would provide access to new
technologies available within the international community: e.g.,
setellite imagery and computerized groundwater monitoring devices used
in designing control measures for waterlogging and salinity, aerial
mapping to help in the design and layout of on-farm ditches and
drains, and VHF radio communication and remote control equipment to
improve system management. Project-sponsored training and overseas
study tours would provide opportunities for Chinese technicians to
study more efficient use of land and water resources and better
management of large irrigation areas.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1    The proposed project areas are in the Nei Monggol and Ningxia
Hui Autonomous Regions in two major irrigation areas located at the
western end of the great bend in the Yellow River: Hetao in central
Nei Monggol and Yinnan in southern Ningxia. The Hetao irrigation area,
which has a designed service area of about 730,000 ha, lies at the
river's northernmost point before it dips southeast, then makes its
long, straight run from north to south defining the Shanxi-Shaanxi
border. Yinnan commands 93,000 ha in four irrigation subareas
stretching along the river from the border with Gansu to Ningxia's
capital of Yinchuan. Both Hetao and Yinnan, the sites of ancient
irrigation systems, are alluvial flood plains, protected by mountains
from the arid wastes to the west and north and facing on the opposite
flank the vast grasslands of the Ordos Plateau. Project works to
improve and extend canals and drains in Hetao would focus on two
blocks straddling parts of four adjoining counties. The two blocks
have a gross area of 345,600 ha, a cropped area of 163,000 ha, and a
total population of 490,000. Yinnan project sites are located on the
less-developed right bank of the river. Activities to rehabilitate,
complete and extend irrigation facilites would benefit 36,000 ha--
about 40w of the 93,000 ha within the four subareas--and a population



- 6 -
of 138,000, 40% of them new settlers. Project locations are shown on
IBRD maps 20286, 20287, and 20288, and area statistics are given in
Annex 1.
B. Climate
2.2     Hetao and Yinnan share an arid continental climate, with
extreme summer and winter temperatures and low, irregtlar rainfall,
most of it concentrated in the summer months. In Hetaa, average daily
temperatures range from a January low of -11 degrees C. to 23 degrees
C in July. Winter temperatures generally stay below freezing from
November through March; a frost-free period of 130-160 days allows a
four to five month growing season. Good sunlight conditions (3,200
sunshine hours annually) are a positive factor in plant growth. Hetao
has little rainfall (130-200 mm), most of it occuring between July and
September, and high evapotranspiration (2,100-2,300 mm). Agriculture
is not possible without irrigation. High winds and sandstorms are
frequent during the winter and spring months.
2.3    Yinnan is slightly warmer and wetter than Hetao.  Although
average daily temperatures for January and July are nearly the same (-9
and 22 degrees C. respectively), April and October temperatures are
a few degrees higher and the frost-free period is longer (150-170
days). Average annual rainfall in the Yinraan area is higher than in
Hetao, ranging from 200 to 350 mm at the project sites. However, over
70% falls during June to September, evapotranspiration rates are high
(2,000 to 2,300 mm), and spring droughts are common. Like Hetao,
Yinnan experiences high winds and sandstorms during winter and spring.
C. Topography
2.4    Hetao and Yinnan are situated in broad, alluvial flood plains
built up over millennia by deposits from the Yellow River. Most of
Hetao is flat country which has an almost imperceptible (1:5000-
1:8000) south to north slope from the Yellow River towards the main
trunk drain at the base of the Yin Mountains. The mountains are
ribbed with gullies which become rushing streams during periods of
sudden rain, straining the capacity of the trunk drain to protect the
fields from flooding. Occasional dunes and some 200 marshy lakes are
scattered throughout Hetao. The largest lake is Wuliangsuhai which has
a surface area of 30,000 ha and serves as a catchment basin for
mountain floods. The average elevation of the Hetao project arer is
about 1,000 m above sea level.
2.5    Of the four project sites in Yinnan, Jinyintan in the north
consists mostly of low, flat land lying within two main diversion
channels and intersected by the Kushui River.   Directly east in
Langpiziliang, the land form changes into the rolling hills of the
Ordos Plateau. Elevation at these two sites is about 1,100 m above
sea level. The Tongxin and Guhai project sites, located further south
at the confluence of the Yellow and Qingshui Rivers, lie at altitudes
ranging between 1,200 and 1,500 m. Tongxin is on hilly terrain which
rises abruptly from the flood plain, providing good natural drainage.
Guhai is a long, narrow strip of increasing elevation running along



the Qingshui River to the mountains of southern Ningxia. The ground
slopes in Tongxin and Guhai range from 1:50 to 1:500.
D. Soils
2.6    Soils in the Hetao basin are primarily alluvial soils
differentiated on the basis of their soluble salt content into the
relatively less saline irrigated soils and the highly saline
solonchaks. The irrigated soils, which have been leached and added to
during centuries of irrigation and the natural flooding of the Yellow
River, have a low (1%) organic content and low levels of pH and N, but
are productive under conditions of careful use and maintenance. An
estimated 94,000 ha of the total 195,000 ha of irrigated soils in the
Hetao project area are becoming progressively more saline in
character. These so-called "salinized irrigated soils" are further
classified on the basis of soluble salt content into light (0.2-0.4%),
medium (0.4-0.6%) and heavy (0.6-1%), with light salinized
accounting for about 48,000 ha or half of the total. Hetao's
solonchaks, which cover an estimated 135,000 ha, are found mostly on
low-lying land at the eastern end of the project area. Half of these
highly saline areas are currently covered with scrub vegetation but
could, with adequate drainage and careful management, be developed
into fields for fodder production.
2.7   The soils at the Guhai and Tongxin project sites in Yinnan are
mainly loess and grey desert soils. These soils are deep (50-100 cm),
alkaline (pH-8.5), and relatively non-saline (0.03-0.1%). They are
generally easy to work but of low fertility. Grey desert soils are
the predominant type in Langpiziliang. These soils are highly
permeable and non-spline with a very low organic content (0.3%) and
poor fertility.  Under present conditions, the area supports little
plant cover. In Jinyintan, meadow soils are mixed with saline and
sandy soils. Because the land is low-lying, impeding natural
drainage, the soils have become highly saline--0 1-0.7%. on average
and above 1% in unreclaimed areas.
E. Farm Size, Land Use, and Population
Hetao
2.8    The Hetao project area, which covers parts of Hanghou, Linhe,
Wuyuan, and Wulateqianqi counties, has about 83,000 farm families, or
an agricultural population of 414,000. The average household farms
about 1.6 ha, 95% of it irrigated land.  Of the to-al irrigated area
of 163,000 ha, 155,000 ha are sown with grain, oil-bearing crops
(primarily sunflower), and sugar beet, and the remainder with tree
crops and pasture. Average per hectare yields vary considerably
throughout the area depending on soil salinity conditions: wheat
yields, for example, average 2.1 tons/ha with low salinity areas
producing about a third higher and high salinity areas a third lower
than this figure. Corn yields average 3.3 tons/ha and oilseeds 1.3
tons/ha with e similar range depending on salinity levels. While the
salinity problem in Hetao constrains productivity, the large farm size
and the availability of irrigation have allowed Hetao to achieve
higher per capita rural incomes than the national average--Y510 in



1986 compared to Y424--and higher than the Nei Monggol-wide figure of
Y382.   Most of this income is from crop production; only 17% is from
tree crops, animal husbandry, and sideline activities.
Yimnnan
2.9     There are about 17,000 farm families, or an agricultural
population of 83,000, presently occupying proposed project sites in
the Guhai, Jinyintan, and Tongxin irrigation subareas; Langpiziliang
is undeveloped and uninhabited. The present cultivated area at Guhai,
Jinyintan, and Tongxin consists of 22,000 ha, 80% of which is in the
first or second year of production with wheat and corn the primary
crops. The average family farm is 1.5 ha, about three times the
national standard, but water is insufficient and inefficiently used,
resulting in low productivity. Livestock raising, though a
traditional activity in the project area, at present plays a very
minor role in total farm production. Average per capita rural income
in 1986 ranged from close to the national average of Y424 in the
Jinyintan area to only Y165 in Guhai which accounts for 67% of the
present population at the three sites.
2.10    Average per capita income among farmers eligible for resettlement
under the project is less than Y80 or one-fifth the national average. An
estimated 400,000 people, half of them members of the Hui minority, exist
at this level of poverty. The majority of these poor farmers are in
upland counties in southern Ningxia, relying on rainfed agriculture in
areas where annual rainfall averages only ?00 mm. Other poor farmers are
in densely populated counties in central Ningxia where the land is low-
lying and subject to salinity and waterlogging. Beginning in 1978, the
Ningxia regional government instituted a long-range plan to resettle
about 300,000 of the poor to newly developed irrigated areas. About
130,000 have been relocated to date, most of them to areas served by the
Guhai and Tongxin lift irrigation schemes. Since 1983, Ningxia's
resettlement program has received funding from the Central Government
through the Three Xi Commission. Total expenditure for the program from
1978-86, including irrigation development and resettlement, is estimated
at Y188 million. Additional details on current and planned resettlement
activities are given in Annex 5.
F. Present Irrigation and Drainage Facilities
Hetao Irrigation Scheme
2.11     Before 1949, the centuries-old Hetao Irrigation Area was
supplied from the Yellow River through direct diversion channels which
left the area vulnerable to flooding and drought during periods of
high and low river flow. In the late 1950s the Government began a
major program to improve and expand the system of canals and control
structures. This included completion of flood-control embankments and
construction of the Sanshenggong Diversion Dam and a 230-km trurk
canal. Under the present irrigation scheme, intake from the Yellow
River, which averages 5.1 billion m3 annually, enters the trunk canal
from Sanshenggong for delivery to a six-tier network consisting of 12
main canals, 40 submain canals, 222 branch canals, and 19,700 lateral,
sublateral, and field canals totalling 16,800 km. An estimated 83% of



the planned number of canals at the branch level and above have been
built to standard design but only 18% of the laterals, sublaterals,
and field canals. On the trunk canal, there is a need to repair
embankments, improve control structures, and enlarge the cross-section
to improve efficiency of water distribution.
2.12     Programs to construct irrigation facilities for Hetao over
the last 25 years have led to an increase in total irrigated area from
310,000 ha in 1961 to the present 480,000 ha (relative to an estimated
irrigable area of 730,000 ha) and virtual elimination of flooding from
the Yellow River. However, increases in total crop output have been
constrained by worsening problems of waterlogging and salinity, the
result primarily of inadequate investment in a complementary system of
drainage works. The present drainage system consists of the 202-km
trunk drain, and 12 main drains, 40 submain drains and 222 partially
constructed branch drains. Only about 13% of the drains below the
branch level have been constructed; on-farm works are notably poor.
Water discharged into the trunk drain is pumped--except during flood
season when high water levels permit gravity flow--into Wuliangsuhai
Lake. The size of the channel and the capacity of the pumping station
are inadequate to handle present runoff, contributing to rising water
table levels and increasing salinity.
Yinnan Irrigation Scheme
2.13     The Yinnan irrigation area, which accounts for 163,000
ha of Ningxia's current total irrigated area of 295,000 ha,
includes the Weining irrigation scheme and part of Qingtongxia.
Qingtongxia, an ancient irrigation scheme, was improved during
1958-67 through the construction of a naw diversion dam and seven
main canals, four supplying water to the river's west bank and
three serving the east. Total irrigated area in Qingtongxia
increased from 128,000 ha in the 1950s to 246,000 ha at present,
including 114,000 ha in Yinnan. The east bank canals are
designed to serve about 3,800 ha of an incomplete pump irrigation
scheme in Langpiziliang and about 11,700 ha of a gravity-fed
scheme in Jinyintan. While almost all of the Jinyintan canal
network is in place, maintenance has been poor and drainage works
inadequate, resulting in steadily worsening problems of
waterlogging and salinity.
2.14     The Weining scheme, designed to irrigate narrow strips
of alluvial plain on the east bank of the Yellow River, has been
improved and expandcd from 23,000 ha in 1949 to 49,000 ha at
present. In the 1970s a program was begun to extend irrigation
to an additional 40,000 ha of higher elevation loess flatlands in
the Guhai and Tongxin irrigation subareas through construction of
multi-stage lift irrigation schemes. In some areas, the main
works have been constructed, but only a small percentage of on-
farm works are complete; in other areas, the entire network of
canals and pumping stations must be established. Conceived
primarily as a means of providing irrigated area for the
resettlement of poor farmers, the program has resulted to date in
completion of only 13,000 ha.



- 10 -
C. Regional Irrigation Agencies
Hetao
2.15    The Nei Monggol Water Resources Bureau (NMWRB) has
overall responsibility for irrigation and drainage schemes
serving the 965,000 ha of irrigated land in Nei Monggol. Headed
by a director appointed by the Regional Government, NMWRB consists
of six administrative departments and 14 divisions which handle
design, construction, research, education and training, and
management of major works (Chart 1). NMWRB's Yellow River
Management Division, for example, directs operation of the
Sanshenggong Diversion Dam, the main control point on the Yellow
River between Denkou and Hohhot. NMWRB has a staff of over
7,000, about 30% of whom have had post-secondary level technical
training. Funding for water resources development projects is
allocated by the regional planning commission on the basis of
NMWRB budget submissions. Large, inter-provincial and centrally-
funded projects require SPC and MWREP approvals on planning and
budget and the concurrence of the Yellow River Commission on
design.  Construction until recently was handled exclusively by
NMWRB's own construction units. However, in accordance with
MWRFP's current policy, which is to open construction projects to
competitive bidding by all qualified engineering companies
throughout China, NMWRB is now drawing up local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures for Nei Monggol.
2.16    Until this year, the Ba League\l/ Water Resources Bureau had
primary responsibility for construction and maintenance of the main trunk
drain and the system of trunk, main, and submain canals serving the Hetao
irrigation area. County (or banner\2/) water resources bureaus, together
with township units under their jurisdiction, managed all drains apart
from the trunk drain and all canals from the branch to farm levels. The
lack of coherence in the management system--the fact that a submain canal
and its parallel drain were managed by different entities--and the fact
that there were no revenues earmarked for upkeep of drains led to
inefficient use of resources, deterioriation of drains, worsening
salinity, and productivity well below potential.
2.17    As part of the project-supported program to rehabilitate the
Hetao scheme, in September of 1987 the Nei Monggol Regional Government
gave final approval to a plan to reorganize the structure for irrigation
management. The plan calls for establishing a new agency, the Hetao
Irrigation Area Management General Bureau, which will take over the major
engineering functions--and staff--of the Ba League WRB leaving the latter
with responsibility for research, design, and oversight over field
\l/ The Nei Monggol league is at the same administrative level as a
prefecture in other regions of China, the major difference being that the
regional government has a more direct involvement in personnel and budge-c
decisions in the case of the league.
\2/ A banner is equivalent to a county. Nei Monggol has both banners
and counties.



- 11 -
irrigation and drainage (Chart 1). As an engineering agency linked to
the NMWRB professionally, while administratively part of the Ba League,
the General Bureau will be responsible for constructing, operating, and
maintaining both canals and drains down to and including the laterals.
Under the General Bureau are seven management subbureaus to oversee major
parts of the water control network: the trunk canal, trunk drain, four
main canals, and the sluice gate near Wulateqianqi. The seven subbureaus
in turn will supervise a total of 73 canal management offices and 218
canal management sections with command areas determined on the basis of
canal length, number of control structures, and irrigated area.
The average management office will have a command area of
7,000 ha, the management section, 700-1,300 ha. Total staff, all
transferred from the Ba League WRB, will number about 3,000. Water fees,
collected by the General Bureau and its hierarchy of offices, will be
expected to cover an increasing portion of the costs of operating and
maintaining the system.
2.18    The Ba League WRB with its much reduced staff--probably no more
than 500 altogether--will continue to be responsible for water
distribution to the network of sublaterals and farm ditches. As is now
the case, the Ba WRB and its constituent agencies, the county WRBs and
township stations, will monitor selection of water users groups,
supervise basic-level watering operations, and help organize farm labor
to construct, maintain, and repair field-level canals and drains. The
costs of labor and matRrials involved in carrying out the latter
activities are routinely covered by a line item in the county or banner
budget. Land use contracts also specify that farmers are to contribute
one labor day per mu (1/15 ha) per year to maintenance and repair of the
primary canal system; however, this has become difficult to enfo,ce and
the use of supplementary wage labor is the norm. The water users groups
are the starting point in regional planning for water allocation. Their
records on crop water use provide the data for adjustments in planting
layouts and water delivery timetables made by the canal management
sections.
Yinnan
2.19    The Ningxia Water Resources Bureau (NXWRB) is the highest
management agency for the 295,000 ha of irrigated area in Ningxia. As is
the case in Nei Monggol, processing major water resources development
projects proposed by the regional WRB involves both central and regional
planning and design agencies as well as MWREP and the Yellow River
Commission. NXWRB has under its direct control design, construction,
research, education, and materials supply units along with eight major
works management subbureaus corresponding to the seven subbureaus under
the Hetao General Bureau (Chart 2). Two of the project areas,
Langpiziliang and Jinyintan, are under the administration of the Qinghan
Canal Subbureau; Guhai and Tongxin are managed by the Guhai Pump
Irrigation Subbureau. The subbureaus are further divided into 58
management offices and 116 management sections each commanding specified
segments of the canal system. The Guhai and Tongxin project areas, for
example, are under the jurisdiction of the east trunk canal management
office. Total NXWRB staff numbers about 3,800, 40% of whom are
classified as technical personnel.



- 12 -
2.20    The network directly managed by NXWRb reaches down to the level
of branch canals and drains. Irrigation and drainage from the subbranch
to field ditch level are the responsibility of prefecture, county, and
township water resources units. For the Yinnan irrigation area, the
Yinnan Prefecture Water Resources and Electric Power Bureau oversees
operations of seven county/city water resources and electric power
sections, five of them included in the project. By contrast to the
canal-based network which is concerned with engineering works, tne
prefecture-county-township structure has primarily administrative
functions: forming water user groups to regulate actual water delivery
and report on crop water requirements, helping to develop annual water
allocation plans, and organizing labor for construction/maintenance of
field channels. As in the case of Hetao, costs of building and repair at
the field level are borne by the county budget. Water fees collected by
the canal management sections are applied to expenditures incurred in
operating and maintaining the larger canals and drains. At present the
fees are inadequate for this purpose and the system is heavily
subsidized. Like Nei Monggol, Ningxia has recently instituted LCB
procedures in works procurement for the water resources sector.
H. Infrastructure and Support Services
Transport
2.21    The Yinnan and Hetao project areas lie along the major railway
running from Lanzhou through Ylnchuan, Baotou, and Hohhot to Beijing.
Rail carrying capacity is adequate to handle the present volume of
freight traffic. Planned improvements in the network, including
electrification, double-tracking, and increases in rolling stock, are
expected to enable capacity to keep pace with future demands. Rail
transport costs now average YO.3/t-km. Some freight is transported by
barge along navigable stretches of the Yellow River: from Zhongning in
southern Ningxia to the border with Nei Monggol and from Wulateqianqi at
the eastern edge of the Hetao project area to Toukotou. Water transport
is suspended from mid-December to mid-March when the river freezes. With
the exception of Langpiziliang, all project sites in Hetao and Yinnan are
served by an adequate network of rural, secondary, and main roads linking
villages, townships, county towns, and the regional capitals of Hohhot
and Yinchuan. In Langpiziliang, which is presently undeveloped, some
farm access roads would be constructed as part of the project.
Power Facilities
2.22    Electricity for the Hetao project area is supplied mainly by the
200,000 kW thermal power plant at Wulashan supplemented by mini
hydropower and thermal (2,000 kW and 3,000 kW) plants at Dengkou.
Transmission is over 110, 35, 10 and 6 kV lines through distribution
stations at Hanghouqianqi, Wuyuan, and Wulateqianqi. Additional
distribution lines would be provided by the project to supply new pumping
stations and tubewells. Electricity supply for the Yinnan project area
is generated principally by several small hydropower and thermal
stations. A distribution network supplying project area townships and
villages is in place, but some additional lines would be needed to supply
newly irrigated areas developed by the project.



- 13 -
Research. Extension and Training
2.23    Both Nei Monggol and Ningxia have in place a well-established
institutional structure for research in agriculture and water resources.
The leading agricultural research organization in each region is the
regional academy of agricultural sciences, a locally-funded branch of the
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences which is administered by MAAF.
The regional academies operate a network of prefectural (league, in the
case of Nei Honggol) institutes specializing in various aspects of crop
and livestock research and county units which typically are involved more
in extension and demonstration work than actual research. In water
resources, the Nei Monggol and Ningxia Water Resources Research
Institutes, which are administratively part of the respective regional
WRBs, head a system of prefecture and county research units and
experiment stations which investigate such topics as the use of vertical
well drainage to improve saline-alkaline soil, crop water requirements, and
microcomputer applications in water management. Additional experimental
work and data gathering are carried out by the WRB hydrology stations and
their affiliated subunits. The Nei Monggol College of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry and the Ningxia Agricultural College offer training and
sponsor field research in both water resources and agriculture.
2.24    Each of the nine counties participating in the project (four in
Hetao and five in Yinnan) has in place a system of extension and training
to channel improved technology and research results to farmers. The
focal point of this local system is the county agro-technical extension
station which operates under the county agricultural bureau. These
stations have been built within the last five years with funding from
KAAF as part of a national effort to improve extension services; they
represent a consolidation of crop protection, diagnostic, and training
activities which were handled previously by separate units. Each station
has a staff of between 75-100 people, about 60% of them graduates of
specialized secondary schools and above. While in some provinces the
agro-technical extension stations have been set up as financially self-
supporting units, in Nei Monggol and Ningxia, these stations provide free
services to farmers. Services include soil testing, weather forecasting,
monitoring of crop production, advice on pesticide and fertilizer
application, and short-term training courses. From 1981-1986, stations
in project counties in Hetao conducted week or two-week-long training
sessions for about 250,000 farmers. The stations manage demonstration
plots for testing new varieties, agricultural practices, and
technologies. They are also responsible for supervising the work of
township extension units which eventually will be set up in each
township. In the case of Hetao, only Linhe County has one unit per
township already established; coverage is about half in the other three
counties. In Yinnan, setting up township extension services is an
integral part of the planning for resettlement. Each township unit is
staffed with 2-3 technicians, some of them technical school graduates,
others farmer technicians. The goal is to provide one technical worker
per 700 ha of cultivated land; the present ratio is 1:2000.
NarketinE
2.25     In Nei Honggol and Ningxia, as elsewhere in China, sale of
agricultural products is now organized through both state and private



- 14 -
marketing systems. The state system includes state food companies which
manage bulk procurement and inter-provincial trade; supply and marketing
cooperatives (SHCs) which do business with about 80% of farmers through a
hierarchy of local agencies; and state food markets handling retail sales
at government-determined prices. Private marketing is a recent
phenomenon, taking its present form only after the 1985 reforms. A major
feature is the agricultural trade market (ATM), a permanent urban market
where merchants lease space on a long-term or daily basis at rates which
cover the cost of utilities provided by the city. ATMs are usually
divided into several sections--e.g., meat, poultry, aquatic products,
vegetables, fruit, grains, and edible oils. Prices for goods sold in the
ATMs are more flexible than those prevailing in the state food markets,
being largely determined by considerations of supply and demand.
Increases in the scale of household production and the complexity of
marketing channels have encouraged proliferation of private middlemen to
assist farmers in marketing their products. These intermediaries are
increasingly specializing in various aspects of the marketir.g process
such as procurement, transport, wholesaling or retailing.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oblectives and Relation to Sector
3.1     The main objectives of the proposed project are (a)  to
increase the efficiency and profitability of agricultural
production in Nei Monggol and (b) to alleviate absolute poverty
in Ningxia. These objectives are in line with the Government's
strategy of making more efficient use of land and water  resources
and reducing regional income differentials. The project would
contribute to increased yields and production, thus helping to
ensure high and stable grain output regionally and setting the
stage for a more diversified, profitable agriculture. It would
directly alleviate extreme poverty in Ningxia by establishing
newly irrigated land for resettlement of farmers from rainfed or
overcrowded areas who are now largely dependent on Government
welfare.
B. Project Description
3.2     The proposed project would improve and  expand  irrigated
area in Nei Monggol and Ningxia through construction,
rehabilitation, and completion of canals, drains, and associated
structures. In the Hetao area of Nei Monggol, the project would
rehabilitate and complete existing drains and canals serving
210,000 ha of presently low-yielding cropland or marginal grazing
area. In Yinnan, Ningxia, it would upgrade and complete irrigation
and drainage works on 22,000 ha and open up 14,200 ha of newly
irrigated land. By ensuring a more reliable water supply, providing
agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, plastic mulch and improved
seeds, and strengthening extension services, the project would
support increased production of wheat, corn, sugar beet, oilseed,
vegetables, fruits, fodder crops, and livestock. In Ningxia, a
resettlement component would relocate poor farmers on newly
irrigated areas and provide infrastructure and social services.
3.3     The proposed project in Nei Monggol would be carried  out
in the Hetao irrigation area in four counties under the
administrative jurisdiction of the Ba League. The Government has
selected two blocks covering parts of the four counties as the
focus of project activities. Project works would improve 210,000
ha of the total area of 345,000 ha in the two blocks.
Western Block:  Hanghou County         50,000 ha
Linhe County           70,000
Eastern Block:  Wuyuan County          50,000
Wulateqian County     40,000
Total                            210,000 ha
The  project  would focus on improving drainage works so as to
lower  water  table  levels and reduce soil salinity.  The main
features of the project are:



- 16 -
(a) improvement of irrigation and drainage facilities
serving 210,000 ha through channel excavation, canal
lining, replacement lining, replacement of bridges and
control structures, and construction of pumping stations;
(b)    improvement of system operation  and maintenance
through provision of machinery and equipment;
(c)    provision of agricultural inputs and strengthening
support services; and
(d)    a training and technical assistance program designed
to strengthen water management at all levels and to
improve salinity control techniques.
3.4    In Ningxia, the proposed project would cover parts of tue
Guhai, Tongxin, Langpiziliang, and Jinyintan irrigation subareas
which are under the jurisdiction of five counties. The project
would newly irrigate 14,200 ha for settlement by poor farm
families and would complete and upgrade existing works on anotheiv
22,000 ha. The 14,200 ha of new area would involve 12,700 ha of
lift pump irrigation at Guhai, Tongxin, and Langpiziliang and
1,500 ha of a gravity-fed scheme at Jinyintan. Improvements on
22,000 ha would include 17,100 ha of lift irrigation at Guhai
and Tongxin and 4,900 ha which are part of the gravity network at
Jinyintan.
New           Completed/Upgraded
Irrigation   Irrigation           Irrigation
Subarea     Network              Network              Total
Guhai           3,000 ha             14,700 ha          17,700  ha
Tongxin         5,900                 2,400              8,300
Langpiziliang   3,800                                    3,800
Jinyintan       1,500                 4.900              6,400
Total          14,200                22,000             36,200
The main features of the project are:
(a) construction and improvement of irrigation and drainage
works  on 36,200 ha through channel excavation  and
installation of control structures, pumping stations,
and power lines;
(b)   improvement of system operation and maintenance through
provision of machinery and equipment;
(c)     resettlement of 11,000 farm families including
provision of building materials, agricultural inputs and machinery,
water supply, electricity, and social services;
(d)   a study of irrigation and agriculture in the Yinbei area
including preparation of a development plan to improve 130,000 ha
of existing cultivated land and to extend irrigation and drainage



- 17 -
to an additional 100,000 ha; and
(e)   a  training and technical assistance  program  designed
to upgrade the technical and managerial skills of WRB and PMO
staff and to train new settlers in irrigated agriculture.
C. Project Features in Nei Monggol
Irrigation and Drainage Works
3.5    Trunk Drain.  The project would complete about 14  million
cu m of earthworks to widen and deepen 170 km of the 202 km trunk
drain which forms the northern boundary of the project area. Bed
width would be 15-30 m, top width 40-60 m, and depth of flow 2.5-
3.0 m for a normal flow capacity of 55 cu m/sec and a peak flow
of 100 cu i/sec. The water level in the trunk drain would be
maintained at 1.5 a below ground level to facilitate inflow from
the side drains. Sections of the channel subject to erosion
would be lined with concrete. About 33 bridges, 10 aqueducts, and
30 drainage end-controls would be built on the trunk drain to
facilitate communications and provide better water control. The
existing pumping station at Honghebu, which lifts drainage from
the trunk drain into Wuliangsuhai Lake, would be repaired and
refurbished so as to achieve its designed pumping capacity of 30
cu a/sec.   To provide additional capacity, the project would
construct a new pumping station about 100 m from the first,
equipped with six pumps with a designed capacity of 100 cu m/sec.
Power would be provided through the Wulateqianqi distribution
station. Given the urgent need for increased pumping capacity to
remove excess water from the drains, site preparation and
foundation works for the new station are already being carried
out so that construction might begin in early 1988.
3.6     Trunk Canal. The project would upgrade the 230-km trunk
canal which runs along the Yellow River at the southern edge of
the project area by addition of control structures and canal
lining. An energy dissipater would be added to the existing drop
structure near Sanshenggong to check present bed scouring. A new
regulator (#5) would be constructed 160 km from Sanshenggong to
provide better water control for about 80,000 ha of irrigated
area downstream. About 23 km of canal banks between regularors
#1 and #2 would be lined with concrete to stop erosion.
3.7     Main. Submain, and Branch Canals and Drains. The  project
would complete about 5.6 million cu m of earthworks on the main,
submain, and branch canals which total about 820 km in length.
This would be mostly in the form of excavation to enlarge, extend
or straighten 149 existing branch canals and 8 main canals, and
to construct one new submain canal and 27 branch canals. Spacing
between main canals is about 10-25 km with canal length of about
40-140 km, commanding about 20,000-60,000 ha. Figures for
submain canals are 5-10 km, 10-15 km, and 5000-15,000 ha, and for
brameh caals 3-5 km, 5-10 km, and 1,500-5,000 ha. The project
would install about 2,330 structures on the canal network,
including 39 aqueducts, 73 offtakes, 118 controls, 233 end-



- 18 -
controls/spillways, 43 road bridges, 135 tractor bridges, 7
pedestrian bridges, and 1,611 lateral and sublateral offtakes.
3.8    About 32 million cu m of earthworks would be carried  out,
mainly in improvement and construction of 6 main drains, 20
submain drains, and 141 branch drains with a total length of
1,365 km. About 153 km of the drainage channels would be lined
to prevent erosion and scouring. The drains would be designed to
maintain the water table level at 1.3 to 1.5 m below ground level
for areas where groundwater is fresh and 1.5 to 1.7 m where
groundwater is either partly or totally saline. Altogether 120
pumping stations with a combined capacity of 2,950 kw would be
constructed on 3 main, 12 submain and 67 branch drains where
gravity flow would be prevented by low ground levels. The
project would also install 443 bridges and 600 structures,
comprising mainly end-controls, junctions, and aqueducts.
3.9    On-farm Works. Based on surveys of soils, topography,  and
hydrogeological conditions, the Nei Monggol WRB has designed the
layout for alternative on-farm drainage systems at fourteen sample
sites in the project area. Four systems have been recommended for
the 210,000 ha to be developed by the project as follows: open
surface drainage, 156,700 ha (74%), vertical tubewell drainage,
40,400 ha (19%), subsurface drainage, 1,600 ha (1%), and biological
control system (i.e., introducing salt tolerant crops such as
rice and barley with high water requirements), 11,800 ha (6%).
3.10     In the open surface drainage system, the spacing between
field drains would be 150-300 m with the drains at closer
intervals in areas where the soils have a high clay content.
Field drains would be 1.8-2.5 m deep with side slopes ranging
from 1 in 1.5 to 1 in 3. Sub-surface drains would be installed
in areas with sandy soils. Corrugated plastic pipes 70 mm in
diameter and 200 m in length would be buried 2 m below the
surface at 200 m spacing with a gradient of 1 in 750. Collector
pipes 200-250 mm in diameter installed at a gradient of 1 in
1,500 would discharge drainage into open sublateral or lateral
drains.   Vertical  tubewells would be installed to lower water
table levels in areas where total mineralization of groundwater
exceeds 2 gm/liter with 80% harmful salts. Wells would be 35-40
m deep spaced at about 500 m. Each well, commanding about 25 ha,
would have a 4" submersible electric pump of 2.2 kW. Well casing
would be sandless concrete pipe 400 mm in diameter with wall
thickness of 50 mm. Yield from each well would be about 36-50 cu
m/hr and 500-800 cu m/16 hours of pumping. Where mineralization
of groundwater is less than 2 gm/liter, the groundwater pumped by
the wells would be used for irrigation. In this case, the wells
would be spaced at about 400 m, each commanding about 16 ha.
3.11     Land  smoothing would be required on about  147,000  ha,
mostly leveling of high spots. Cultivated area would be
organized into 0.07-0.13 ha plots to facilitate efficient water
management. Four rows of trees would be planted along the lateral
and sublateral canals with row spacing of 1-1.5 m and tree
spacing of 1.5 m. Villages would be linked by 7 m wide rural



- 19 -
roads and production teams by 4.5 m wide farm roads. Bridges
would be 4.5 m wide for rural and farm eoads and 1.5 m for
pedestrian  use.   On-farm works would be planned and designed
using aerial maps developed for the project (para. 1.9).
Machinery and Equipment
3.12    The project would provide earth moving machinery, mostly
excavators and bulldozers, to the Nei Monggol WRB and Hetao
General Bureau to be used in construction, operation and maintenance
of the primary system of canals and drains. The Hetao General Bureau
and its affiliated departments and management offices and sections
would be supplied with fuel and repair trucks, trucks for hauling
construction materials, and field vehicles to be used for on-site
inspection. VHF radio communication and remote control equipment for
operating gates would also be provided to replace the outdated network
presently used in system management. To promote efficiency in
compilation, analysis, and reporting of project data, the project would
provide microcomputers and office equipment to the Nei Monggol, Ba
League and county PMOs. Machinery and equipment lists are given in
Annex 2, Table 6.
Agricultural Inputs and Support Services
3.13    Agricultural Inputs. To remedy soil deficiencies in Hetao,
the project would provide as a single soil amendment 20,000 tons of
chemical fertilizers, principally diammonium phosphate (DAP). An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that adequate quantities
of chemical fertilizer nutrients would be procured and made available
to farmers and that an annual program for such provision would be
prepared and submitted to IDA for review prior to November 1 of each
year. The project would also provide 2,750 tons of raw materials to be
used in the manufacture of plastic mulch. The plastic mulch, applied
as a ground cover for newly planted corn and cash crops, would improve
germination rates and shorten the growing period. The county PMOs
would organize the sale of fertilizer and plastic mulch to farmers on
a revolving fund basis with funds recovered used to purchase additional
supplies. The project would support increased production of fresh milk
in the project area through domestic procurement of 400 dairy cows to
be distributed to 200 specialized households for management on a
contract basis.
3.14    Support Services.  The project --ould strengthen the extension
system by constructing and equipping 27 township agro-technical extension
stations and five village crop protection offices. Equipment would
include soil testing instruments, crop pest warning devices, and spraying
equipment for insect control. The project would expand facilities of the
Ba League Cash Crops Research Station and furnish it with laboratory
equipment and growth chambers for simple experiments and demonstrations.
The project would upgrade an existing seed station by construction of
additional storage facilities and drying yards. Nurseries would be
established in the project area to supply quality seeds for crops and
saplings for orchards and tree belts.



- 20 -
Training and Tehnical Assistance
3.15    The project would provide 84 man-months of overseas study
tours (four weeks per participant) and 35 man-months of overseas
training (four to twelve months per trainee) for staff of local water
resource and agricultural agencies and project management offices.
Study tours would familiarize staff with new technologies in drainage
and slope protection, management of large-scale irrigation systems,
and on-farm works design and with the experience of other developing
countries in implementing and monitoring Bank projects. Overseas
training would enable staff to study in some depth such areas as
construction engineering, salinity control, and groundwater assessment
(para 1.9). Provision would also be made for consulting services
(14 man-months) to address specific on-site problems in drainage and
soil improvement and assist in preparation of documents for
international competitive bidding. Local training would include
over 4,000 man-months of long- and short-term training for WRB and
PMO staff, heads of water users' groups, and water resources research
staff in courses ranging from project management, finance and
accounting to salinity control, soil improvement and equipment use.
Courses would be held at the Linb' ater Resources School, the Nei
Monggol College of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, and the Water
Resources Research Institutes at Henan and Beijing. The project would
provide 40,000 man-months of training for area farmers and herdsmen
in the form of 1-5 day sessions on cultivation techniques and animal
husbandry taught by staff of the township extension stations. The costs,
phasing, and description of training and technical assistance are given
in Annex 2, Table 14. During negotiations, the details and schedule of
the proposed training program were reviewed and agreed with IDA and an
assurance was obtained that training would be carried out in accordance
with this agreed program.
D. Proiect Features in Ninaxia
Irrigation and Drainage Works
3.16   Now Irrigation Network.  The project would complete about
24 million cu a of earthworks in construction of a new network of
canals and drains designed to expand irrigated area by 14,200 ha in
Guhai, Tongxin, Langpiziliang, and Jinyintan. In Guhai, Tongxin, and
Langpiziliang, which account for 12,700 ha of the new area, the project
would construct 6 main and 16 branch canals with a total length of 128 km
and 2,423 km of on-farm works (canals at the lateral level and below).
Eleven pumping stations would be constructed and two upgraded to convey
water to higher elevations. Pumping capacity would range from 0.2-0.5
m3/sec against a lift of 17-32 m at Guhai, 0.5-0.78 m3/se< against a
lift of 39-49 a at Tongxin, and 0.24-0.47 m3/sec against a lift of 25-41 m
at Langpiziliang. Power would be brought to the pumping stations by newly
installed transmission lines from five new substations linked to the
Ningxia regional power grid. Some 6,800 structures including regulator-,
offtakes, siphons, and bridge crossings, would be constructed as part of
the mew irrigation network. The new gravity-fed irrigation network at
Jinyintan, desiged to irrigate 1,500 ha, would involve construction of
two braneh cana1 linked to the East main canal and totaling  21 i  in
length and 18 control structures, mainly offtakes, controls, and aque _ts.



- 21 -
3.17 On-farm Works. Some 1,800 laterals and sublaterals would be
constructed or upgraded to complete the irrigation network serving
14,700 ha in Guhai and 2,400 ha in Tongxin. This would involve about
20 million m3 of earthworks and installation of about 9,000 structures,
mainly gates, bridges, and culverts. The laterals would each be designed
to irrigate about 50 ha, the sublaterals two ha.
3.18    Isproved Irrigation Network.  In Jinyintan, the project would
upgrade canals and drains serving 4,900 ha of low-lying, water-
logged crop land. This would mainly involve widening and deepening
channels and installing some 3,000 structures including gates, bridges,
and culverts, About 190 ha of fish ponds would be constructed on land
which cannot be economically reclaimed for crop production.
Machinery and Equipment
3.19    The project would provide machinery and equipment to the Ningxia
W1RB for construction, operation, and maintenance of project works.
Machinery would include excavators, shovels, desilting machines,
and lifting machines. A VHF radio system with mobile units would be
provided to improve communications between the pumping stations
and the canal management offices. The project would supply trucks to
the WRB construction units and canal departments for use in hauling
materials for construction and repair. Utility vehicles and vans
would be distributed to Lhe canal offices and sections to facilitate
works inspection. The project would provide the PMOs with microcomputers,
copiers, and video equipment for use in project monitoring. Machinery
and equipment lists are given in Annex 2, Table 12.
Resettlement
3.20    About 11,000 poor farm families (54,000 people) from the arid
hills and overcrowded lowlands of Yinnan would be relocated onto 14,200 ha
of newly irrigated land developed by the project. A family of five
would be allocated about 1.3 ha of land including a small plot for a house
and vegetable garden or fruit trees. The project would establish 117
basic villages of 90-100 families each, organized into 26 village centers
and three townships. The project would provide new settlers with building
materials, equipment, and agricultural inputs, including chemical
fertilizers. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that adequate
quantities of chemical fertilizer nutrients would be procured and made
available to farmers and that an annual program for such provision would
be prepared and submitted to IDA for review prior to November 1 of each
year. The project would establish infrastructure, including roads,
electricity and water supply, and social services, primarily health
clinics and schools. Extension stations handling a range of services
--e.g., in forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, crop protection--
and farmer training would be set up at the township level. The project
would support development of small-scale rural enterprises following
completion of infrastructure and service facilities.   Relocation costs,
including infrastructure and social services, are estimated at about
Y1,300 per person for a total of Y70 million. The resettlement program
would operate on a strictly voluntary basis; over a specified trial
period, settlers would retain the right to return to their original



- 22 -
farmland. Details of the costs and phasing of the resettlement component
are given in Annex 5. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the resettlement1component would be carried out in accordance with
the plan submitted to IDA in October 1987.
Yinbei Studies
3.21    The Yinbei irrigation area, comprising 133,000 ha of cultivated
land and an additional 100,000 ha of potentially irrigable land, lies
to the immediate north of Ningxia's capital city of Yinchuan. The
topography of the area is flat, with occasional depressions which lie
as much as 3 m below the normal water level of the Yellow River.
About 50% of the area is affected by high water tables and soil salinity.
Upgrading existing irrigation and drainage facilities and extending
facilities to the remaining 100,000 ha of irrigable land would require
comprehensive studies of the area. The project would provide Y10
million to carry out engineering, hydrogeological and agricultural
studies with a view to preparing a comprehensive agricultural
development plan for the area. Three areas of about 300 ha each in
Gaochuan, Wuxian, and Linhe counties would be established as test sites
for dLfferent engineering and agricultural techniques for controlling
water table levels and soil salinity. The project would provide
consulting services (Annex 2, Table 14) to assist the Ningxia WRB with
the studies, particularly in the use of satellite imagery in planning
and design (para. 1.9). An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that (a) a working group, assisted by suitably-qualified consultants,
would be established under the Regional Project Management Office to
study the Yinbel area with terms of reference for the study
satisfactory to IDA and (b) that a report on the said study would
be submittBd to IDA by June 30, 1991.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.22    The project would provide training to upgrade the skills
of staff of the WRB, PMOs and agricultural agencies and to introduce
them to new technology in lift pump irrigation, drainage, salinity
control, and water resources management (para. 1.9). This training
would include 56 man-mont'hLs of overseas study tours, 60 man-months
of short-term courses overseas, and 2,400 man-months of long-term
training at the Ningxia Water Resources School and other local
institutions. For farmers, the project would provide 2,500 man-months
of local training in the form of field demonstrations and short
courses organized by agricultural technicians from the agro-technical
extension network. This training would be essential for the new
settlers in Yinnan who would be converting from dryland to irrigated
agriculture and would need to learn new crop cultivation practices and
techniques of water management. Sixty-two man-months of consulting
services would be provided, primarily to assist in carrying out the
engineering and agricultural studies in Yinbei (para.3.21). The costs,
phasing, and description of training and technical assistance are given
in Annex 2, Table 15. During negotiations, the details and schedule of
the proposed training program were reviewed and agreed with IDA and an
assurance was obtained that training would be carried out in accordance
with the agreed program.



- 23 -
E. Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Hetao
3.23    Water for the Hetao irrigation area is supplied from the
Yellow River through the existing intake at the Sanshenggong Diversion
Dam. Total annual regulated flow available for the 163,000 ha of
irrigated land in the project area averages 2.44 billion m3. Project
activities, with their focus on improved drainage and better water
management, would make more efficient use of available water, thus
reducing present demand to 2.32 billion m3 while increasing irrigated
area to 210,000 ha. The irrigation season in Hetao begins in early
May and extends to early November; the period of peak demand is July-
September. Typical irrigation frequencies, periods and quantities for
various crops are shoun in Annex 1, Table 4. The quality of water
diverted from the Yellow River is generally good with mineralization
at about 0.45 gm/liter and the pH level at 8.1 during the irrigation
season from May to November. The silt content of the water at the
Sanshenggong intake is about 3.1 kg/m3 (long-term average) and in the
trunk canal about 1.9 kg/m3.
Yinnan
3.24   Water to irrigate 36,000 ha in the proposed project area
would be supplied from the Yellow River through the intake at the
Qingtongxia Diversion Dam in the case of Langpiziliang and Jinyintan
and through a pumping station at Cuanyanshan in the case of Tongxin
and Guhai. Approval to divert water to meet the needs of the project
area has already been obtained as part of earlier, incomplete irrigation
schemes (paras. 2.12 and 2.13); total annual irrigation requirements
would be on the order of 360 million m3. Guhai would also make use
of water from the Qingshui River to irrigate about 1,300 ha. This
water would be diluted with pumped water from the Yellow River to
reduce mineralization from 3.0 to 1.5 gm/liter. The irrigation season
in Yinnan is similar to Hetao with minor deviations in frequencies and
quantities. Typical figures are given in Annex 1, Table 4. Water
quality is also similar with the mineralization level at 0.4 gm/liter
and pH at 7.8.
F. Status of Design
Hetao
3.25     The project is in an advanced stage of preparation. Designs
for most of the major civil works components have been prepared by
the Nei Monggol Water Resources Bureau Design Institute and approved
by the MWREP. Detailed working drawings are being prepared.
Preparation of drawings would be sufficiently advanced for construction
to begin in 1988, especially on the trunk drain and trunk canal.
Designs for on-farm works for the 210,000 ha would be based on designs
developed for the fourteen sample areas.  Aerial photographs suitably
enlarged would be used to assist in planning the total layout. On-farm
structures would be prefabricated according to standardized designs
at central plants to be set up in each of the four project counties.
Engineering quantities for civil works are based on designs already



- 24 -
completed. Estimated costs are derived from unit costs for similar
works carried out recently in the project area, with prices adjusted
to September 1987.
Yinnan
3.26    In the case of Yinnan, designs and detailed drawings completed
earlier for the Guhai, Tongxin, and Langpiziliang pumping schemes are
being modified for project use. Designs for the main and branch
drains in Jinyintan are being prepared by the Ningxia Water Resources
Design Institute. Detailed drawings would be completed in time for
construction to begin in 1988. Design of on-farm works would be carried
out as the main works are being constructed. There is ample experience
in construction of irrigation works in other parts of Yinnan on which
to base quantities and unit prices. Layouts for settlement sites in the
four areas have been prepared and detailed designs for infrastructure
are well under way.
G. Implementation Schedule
Hetao
3.27    The project would be carried out over a period of seven years,
from July 1988 to June 1994. The main reasons for the lengthy
implementation period are the large size of the project area and the
interruption of construction activities by freezing weather between
December and March. Construction would start with the trunk drain and
the trunk canal in 1988 followed by improvements to main and branch
drains and canals. On-farm works, to be constructed mainly by contri-
buted labor, would start in the first year in the 14 sample areas.
The trunk canal 6ould be completed by the end of 1991; the trunk drain
by 1992; the main and branch drains and canals by 1992; and most
on-farm works by 1994 to allow full irrigation in 1994. A detailed
implementation schedule is given in Figure 1.
Yinnan
3.28    The project would be implamented over a period of about five
years from the start of the 1988 construction season in March to the
end of the 1992 construction season in November. Site preparation
and temporary works for Jinyintan, Langpiziliang, and Guhai would be
completed during the first half of 1988 for construction of major
works to start in July. Construction at Tongxin would begin in 1989.
New settLers--typically, adult male family members--would take up
temporary residence beginning in 1988, on the 14,200 ha to be opened
up by the project to assist in construction of laterals, sublaterals,
and on-farm structures. Relocation of other family members would
generally take place in 1991, just prior to provision of irrigation
water, when land leveling and other preparatory work would be
carried out.
H. Cost Estimates
3.29 The total project cost is estimated at US$234 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$103 million or 44% of the total.



_ 25 -
TAMS  3.1  hPOJlCS COST SUMMYR
___________._.____________________________--_------___________________________________..._..___
3ts1mze Costs to              Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreala       Total       *.1.
------(  minlLo)                   (        i------    ------(Us$ allie.)----  I
---_-_---_---_------------------------_----------_--------------_--_-_______-__-----______----
Not" Ce_esAmt
________________
Deaasee & Irrigatios lb           273.2    140.8    414.0       73.8      38.0    111.9        34
WULdILAg                           11. 3      4.8      16.1      3.0       1.3       4.4       30
Naokiae,y  equip. & materials    10. 9       61.5      72.4      2.9      16.6      19.6       65
Training end Tech. Assist.          4.3       3.3       7.6      1.2       0.9       2.1       43
2GaLc-rLn./Ksnagemat                9.2       1.0      10.2      2.5       0.3       2.8        10
Use Cost                308.9    211.4    520.3       63.5      57.1    140.6         41
Physical contingencLes            11.5       8.7     20.2       3.1       2.3       5.4
Nrice contifngefiCs               49.5      .4.2    123.7       4.4       6.6      11.0
Total Het"                369.9    294.3    664.2       91.0     66.0    157.0         42
------------- ~ ~ ~  ___ -----  -----             ----      ----    _____-_
Tiume Compenat
________________
Draiage & Irrigation lb            92.0      75.2    167.2      24.9      20.3     45.2        45
-es-ttl ent                        29.5      29.5      59.0      8.0       8.0      15.9        30
Naohinry, equip. & materials        0.0      15.0      15.0      0.0       4.1       4.1      100
Training and Tech. Asstst.          1.8       1.8       3.5      0.5       0.5       0.9       50
heimeria ng/Kansg.aat               6.6       0.7       7.3      1.8       0.2      2.0        10
TLnbeL Studies                      7.0       3.0      10.0      1.9       0.3       2.7       30
Uase Cost               136.8    125.2    262.0        37.0     33.6      70.8        46
Physical contLngeniLes             5.9       5.4      11.3      1.6       1.5       3.1
Price contingencies               18.1      27.1      45.2      1.2       1.8       3.0
Total Yjinsn              160.8    157.7    318.5        39.8     37.1      76.9        4U
Total Noject              530.7    452.0    982.7    130.7    103.2    233.9            44
la: Pt.j..t La exempt frem taxes -nd duties.
lb: Ineluies nn-fam wors and electrification.



- 26 -
The total cost of the Hetao component is estimated to be US$157 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$66 million (42% of the total)
and the Yinnan component, US$77 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$37 million (48% of the total). These costs include
no significant tax element since civil works and buildings are
essentially free of tax, and imported materials and equipment are
exempt from duties. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived
from the designs described in paras. 3.25 and 3.26 and unit prices
currently prevailing in the project area. Engineering and management
costs have been calculated at 2% of total costs of works items.
Physical contingencies are 5% of civil works for the Hetao component
and 5% of civil works and resettlement for the Yinnan component.
Price escalation for both foreign and local costs when expressed in
US dollars is based on annual international price escalation rates
for all goods and services of 1% for 1988-90 and 3.5% for 1991-94;
and when expressed in yuan, is based on price escalation rates of 6.5%
for 1988-90 and 4.5% for 1991-94. Estimated costs are summarized in
Table 3.1 and details are given in Annex 2.
I. Financing
3.30    Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 72.7
million (US$103 million equivalent) and would cover 44% of total
project costs. The balance of US$131 million equivalent would be
met from the following:
(a) Central Government, US$10.8 million, Nei Monggol Regional
Government, US$32.5 million, and Ba League, US$47.7 million (with
the latter figure including contributed labor estimated at US$34
million), for the Hetao component; and
(b) Ningxia Regional Government, Yinnan Prefecture, and
participating county governments, US$40 million, for the Yinnan
component.
J. Procurement
Hetao
3.31    Procurement of machinery and equipment for operation and
maintenance (US$7.5 million), pumps (US$1.4 million), agricultural
equipment and materials (US$6.3 million), electrical equipment
(US$1.0 million), construction materials (US$14.5 million), and
office,laboratory, training and communication equipment (US$2.7
million) would be by international competitive bidding (ICB) and
limited international bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines
(Table 3.2). Civil works (US$52 million) would be divided into ten
packages: (a) one ICB package for the trunk drain including the new
Honghebu Pumping Station estimated to cost US$19.5 million; and
(b) nine LCB packages for the trunk canal and the eight drainage
compartments. Qualified domestic contractors who bid on the ICB
package would be eligible for a 7.5% preference in bid evaluation.
The nine packages of civil works, consisting mostly of earthworks
and structures scattered over a wide area, would be too dispersed to
attract foreign contractors and would, therefore, be carried out by



- 27 -
TABLE 3.2 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Item                 ICB     LIB    LCB        Others /a  Total
Hetao Component
Civil works               19.5      -     30.3        2.5        52.3
( 9.5)         (10.0)                 (19.5)
On-farm works               -       -     18.0       38.8        56.8
( 6.0)                 ( 6.0)
Machinery, equip.         40.1      1.5     -         1.0 /b    42.6
and materials            (36.2)   (1.5)              (1.0)      (38.7)
Training &  T.A.            -       -       -         2.3         2.3
(1.5)      (1.5)
Engineering and             -                         3.0         3.0
management                                           (0.3)       (0.3)
Component Total          59.6     1.5   48.3        47.6       157.0
------              (45.7)   (1.5) (16.0)       ( 2.8)      (66.0)
Yinnan Component
Civil works                 -        -    18.7        3.5        22.2
( 7.4)     ( 1.4)      ( 8.8)
On-farm works               -        -     9l.0      22.0        31.0
( 2.7)     ( 6.5)      ( 9.2)
Settlement /c               -       -      3.4          -         3.4
( 1.1)                 ( 1.1)
Machinery, equip.         14.7     1.0      -         0.5 /b    16.2
and materials            (14.7)  ( 1.0)             ( 0.5)      (16.2)
Training & T.A. /d          -        -       -        2.0         2.0
( 1.5)      (1.5)
Engineering and             -        -       -        2.0         2.0
management                                          ( 0.2)       (0.2)
Component Total          14.7     1.0   31.1        30.0        76.8
(14.7)   (1.0) (1.1.2)     (10.1)     (37.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA Creldit.
All amounts include contingencies.
/a:   Includes consulting services, training, study tours and force account
construction for civil and on-farm works.
/b:   Prudent shopping on basis of three bid quotations
/c:   Covers construction of buildings for social services and facilities.
/d:   Includes consulting services for Yinbei studies.



- 28 -
local construction teams through contracts awarded following LCB 
On-farm works, covering lateral and sublateral canals and drains
and structures, would be carried out by force account operations
managed by the participating counties. On-farm structures would be
standardized through use of concrete components prefabricated at
central plants to be set up in each project county. This method
would ensure quality control, reduce material wastage and trans-
portation costs, and enable year round production.
Yinnan
3.32    Procurement of constrvction machinery and vehicles (US$1.3
million), construction steel (US$1.3 million), electrical equipment
and pumps (US$1.3 million), agricultural machinery and materials
(US$10 million), and office, laboratory, communication and training
equipment (US$0.9 million) would be on the basis of ICB and
limited international bidding (LIB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines (Table 3.2). Civil works, buildings, and land development
(US$48 million), mostly earthworks and small structures scattered
over a wide area in the four irrigation subareas, would not be of
interest to foxeign contractors. These works would be constructed
in part by local construction teams through contracts awarded
following LCB and in part by labor contributed by farmers or hired
under local procedures and directed by WRB units.
3.33    The following procurerent procedures would apply to both
Hetao and Yinnan. For goods procured through ICB, qualified domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a domestic preference over foreign
manufacturers of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
greater, in bid comparison. Prior IDA review of contract awards
would exclude small contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated to cover
less than 20% of the total value of all contracts. Items including
(a) a small amount of laboratory equipment and instruments; and
(b) agricultural machinery and implements costing not more than
US$50,000 per contract and aggregating not more than USt500,000,
would be procured on the basis of three price quotations under
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Items costing not more than
US$200,000 per contract and aggregating not more than US$1.5 million
for Hetao and US$1.0 million for Yinnar. would be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. The China
Machinery Corporation (CMC) and the China Chemical Import and Export
Corporation (CCIEC) would prepare the ICB documents for works and
goods on behalf of the Nei Monggol Regional Project Management Office
(PMO). The International Tendering Company (ITC) of the China National
Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would prepare ICB documents for
goods on behalf of the Ningxia Regional Project Management Office .
These agencies would be responsible for inviting bids for ICB contracts,
evaluating bids received and submitting award recommendations to IDA.
LCB procedures for civil works and buildings are being prepared by
the Nei Monggol and Ningxia WRBs based on MWREP guidelines and LCB
procedures followed in other Bank-financed projects in China
(paras. 2.15 and 2.20). These procedures would allow for competitive
bidding by all qualified :instruction and engineering enterprises,
both within and outside the region. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the LCB procedures for Nei Monggol and Ningxia as



- 29 -
well as sample documents would be submitted to IDA for review and
approval by June 30, 1988 and, in any case, prior to bid invitation.
Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines on the use of consultants. Overseas training and study
tours would be financed by the Bank and subject to the Bank's prior
review. The remaining training requirements would be contracted
for locally and financed by the Government. Procurement arrangements
are shown in Table 3.2.
K. Disbursements
3.34    Disbursements against expenditures for machinery, equipment
and materials would be 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the
imported items, 100% of the ex-factory price for locally manufactured
items or 75% of local expenditures for items procured locally.
Disbursement against the ICB contract for construction of Hetao's trunk
drain and the new Honghebu Pumping Station would be 50% of contract
expenditures; this would include disbursement at 100% against advances
for equipment purchased by contractors. Disbursements for construction
of other civil works and buildings, made against LCB contracts, would
be 30% for Hetao. Civil works, buildings, on-farm works and land
development carried out by LCB or force account in Yinnan would be
disbursed at 40%. Disbursements for overseas training, study tours,
and consulting services would at 100% of total expenditures.
Retroactive financing would be provided for expenditures made after
September 1, 1987 up to US$1.0 million for construction of lateral and
sublateral canals and structures in Yinnan and up to US$700,000 for site
preparation and construction of temporary and foundation works at the
Honghebi. Pumping Station in Hetao.
3.35    Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure
(SOEs) in the case of LCB civil works contracts, overseas training,
study tours and consulting services, and contracts for goods and
services, each costing less than US$200,000, and force account work.
SOEs for irrigation and drainage, on-farm works and land development
would be supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and
unit prices, the latter updated annually by the Regional PMOs and
reviewed by IDA. In the case of ICB contracts, disbursements would be
made against the contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
In order to provi..e for efficient disbursement, Special Accounts
(one for Nei Monggol, one for Ningxia) would be opened in US dollars
in banks acceptable to IDA with initial deposits of SDR 2.5 million
(equivalent of US$3.5 million) for Nei Monggol and SDR 1.8 million
(equivalent of US$2.5 million) for Ningxia which in each case
represents the average estimated four-month expenditures. Applications
for replenishment of each Special Account would be submitted quarterly,
or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50% of its initial
4eposit, whichever comes first.
3.36    It is astimated that the Hetao component would be completed
by December 31, 1994 and for the Yinnan component by December 31, 1992.
The closing date for the project would be December 31, 1995. The
disbursement experience in China has been very favorable and better
than regional averages. The project disbursement profile is in line
with that for specific investment loans in China. Estimated schedules



- 30 -
of expenditures and disbursements are given in Annex 2, Table 13.
L. Accounts and Audits
3.37    Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and
materials, and land development would be maintained by the PHOs in
participating counties. These records would be forwarded to the
prefectural PMOs (Ba League and Yinnan Prefecture) which would prepare
consolidated accounts including their own records of expenditures to
be submitted to the Nei Monggol and Ningxia PMOs for review. The
two Regional PMOs would be responsible for submitting reports to IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that tne Regional PMOs
would maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year. The audited accounts would include details of
withdrawals from the Credit account made on the basis of SOEs and the
auditors' opinion as to whether such withdrawals were against
expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA.
M. Environmental Effects
3.38    Salt balance studies carried out in the Hetao irrigation
area show increasing salt accumulation. Soil surveys conducted
in 1957-59 and 1981-83 revealed an increase in salinized land
from about 293,000 to 430,000 ha or nearly 60% of the entire Hetao
area. The project would reduce salinity by leaching the soils and
lowering the water table through improved drainage. This technique
has been demonstrated in two pilot areas where completion of
comprehensive on-farm drainage and irrigation works has reclaimed
the salinized soils and restored normal crop yields after two to
three years. Similar results from experimental drainage sites have
been recorded for the Jinyintan irrigation subarea in Yinnan.
Soil salinity would not be a problem for the other project sites in
Yinnan (Guhai, Langpiziliang, and Tongxin) as the water table is low
and ground elevations are high, facilitating natural drainage. In
both Hetao and Yinnan, the cropping pattern to be introduced would
integrate crops with pastures and tree crops; this would provide
additional vegetative cover which would ultimately lead to an increase
in the number and species of wildlife. The pumping schemes in Yinnan
would also provide a source of safe drinking water for the new settlers
and their livestock in contrast to existing water which is scarce and,
where available, is highly mineralized and not suitable for human
consumption. Due to the low winter temperatures, the risk of exposure
to water-borne diseases in the newly irrigated areas is minimal.
3.39     Hetao's  trunk  drain discharges into  the  Yellow  River
through Wuliangsuhai Lake, a vast (290 sq. km), marshy lake which
supports  fisheries  and  production  of  reeds  for  the   paper
industry.   Of concern to Nei Monggol project authorities is  the
possibility that higher salinity levels in the lake, as a result
of increased inflows from drains constructed by the project, would
adversely affect the lake's ecosystem in general and fish and reed
production in particular. Project authorities have, therefore,
commissioned the Environmental Hydrogeology Research Institute,



- 31 -
Ministry of Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection,
to direct an environmental impact study of the lake. The scope of
the study, the institutions involved, and the results of the initial
phase of research are summarized in Annex 4. Preliminary findings
indicate a temporary increase in salinity from the present 1.8 gm/l
to 2.3 gm/l in the first few years after completion of project works.
An increase of this magnitude is expected to have no adverse effect
either on reed production or on silver and common carp (the predominant
lake fish) which, according to experimental data, can tolerate
salinity levels of up to 6 gm/l. Moreover, there is no evidence in
data collected thus far to suggest that such a minor shift in salinity
would adversely affect any other lake organisms or migratory birds.
The study, which will include recommendations on salinity control and
measures to ensure that water quality conforms to China's environmental
standards, will be completed by June 1988. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the NMWRB and the Nei Monggol Bureau of
Environmental Protection would continuously monitor water quality in
the trunk drain, the main drains and Wuliangsuhai Lake with the results
made available to IDA annually and that project activities would be in
compliance with China's national guidelines on environmental control
and acceptable to IDA.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEN4;T
A. Project Coordinating Committees dnd Management Offices
4.1   To ensure efficient and timely execution of the proposed
project and coordination of inputs of concerned government departments
and agencies, the Nei Monggol and Ningxia Regional Governments have
set up project management structures with offices at the regional,
prefectural, and county levels (Charts 3 and 4). Within each regional
government, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) has been appointed
to monitor overall construction progress and to resolve any procedural
or legal issues that might arise related to contracts, materials
procurement, funding arrangements, and land use. Each PCC is headed
by a deputy govenior and comprises senior officials from regional
agriculture, planning, irrigation, finance, and materials supply
agencies and major banks. The Nei Monggol PCC also includes
representatives from the urban construction and environmental
protection office and the head of the Ba League.
4.2    Under the PCC a Project Management Office (PMO) has been set
up to handle the day-to-day aspects of project execution in the
prefectures and counties participating in the project. PMO staff
consists of a Project Director appointed by the regional water
resources bureau and about fifteen professionals, including irrigation
engineers, agronomists, accountants, and economists, drawn principally
from the water resources and agriculture agencies. The Ningxia PMO,
in addition, plans to augment staff as necessary with retired personnel
retained on a contract basis. Specialists from various social service
and research units--e.g., the Ningxia Academy of Social Sciences--
would also be hired to staff a special unit concerned with planning
und implementing the resettlement activities.



- 32 -
4.3   The PMOs would coordinate and supervise project implementation
in the participating prefectures and counties; review technical
standards for design, construction, operation and maintenance of
project works; disburse funds to executing units; administer project
technical assistance and training programs; ensure prompt delivery of
project inputs; and serve as the regions' liaison with IDA and MWREP
on project matters. In procurement of equipment, machinery, and
materials, the regional PMOs would review equipment lists, prepare
technical specifications and evaluate bids. The International
Tendering Company (ITC) of the China National Technical Import
Corporation (CNTIC) would handle bid invitation and award of contracts
on behalf of the Ningxia Regional PMO; the China Machinery Corporation
(CMC) and the China Chemical Import and Export Corporation (CCIEC)
would undertake similar work for the Nei Monggol Regional PMO.
The PMOs would also maintain project accounts, file disbursement
applications, and prepare for submission to IDA twice yearly reports
on project progress as well as a project completion report.
4.4     A similar structure of PCCs and PMOs would be established
for the prefectures and counties in the project. In Nei Monggol,
these units would be organized by the Ba League and Hanghou, Linhe,
Wulateqianqi, and Wuyuan counties; in Ningxia, by Yinnan Prefecture
and Guyuan, Haiyuan, Lingwu, Tongxin, and Zhongning counties. The
principal functions of the prefectural management units would be
(1) to coordinate use of equipment and transfers of funds, materials,
and labor among counties, and (2) to arrange for on-site inspections
before final payments to civil works contractors. The Yinnan PMO
would also play a key role in coordinating the resettlement activities
carried out by the participating counties. Prefectural-level PMOs
would be set up in the Hetao General Bureau (Nei Monggol) and Yinnan
Bureau of Water Resources and Electric Power (Ningxia); staff of these
agencies would be made available to the project on a part-time basi&
to assist, as needed, in the various aspects of project execution.
4.5    At the county level, the PCCs would review work schedules,
construction contracts, and annual budgets prepared by the PMOs which
would be responsible for supervising day-to-day activities of project
execution. Each PMO would be headed by a deputy county chief and
staffed with about 10-15 people with specific responsibilities for
planning and finance, engineering management, agricultural technology,
materials supply, training, monitoring and evaluation, and, in the case
of the Yinnan component, resettlement. Major functions of the county
PMOs would be contract management and supervision of local units
involved in construction of project works, including the water resources
bureaus' own construction units and other construction and engineering
companies specializing in civil works, installation of power facilities,
and road building. The county PMOs would also coordinate with local
technical departments, including agriculture, on provision of fertilizer
and other agricultural inputs. In Yinnan, the county PMOs would be
responsible for organizing and carrying out all aspects of resettlement
in accordance with layouts and schedtuling drawn up by the resettlement
unit within the regional PM0 and approved by the Ningxia Agricultural
Construction Commission (Annex 5). An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that the regional, prefectural, and county PCCs and PMOs



- 33 -
would be maintained during project implementation with staff, functions
and responsibilities acceptable to IDA.
B. Financial Arrangements
Flow of Funds
4.6    The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against expenditures
for equipment, materials, earthworks in construction and rehabilitation
of canals, drains, and structures, and overseas training, study tours,
and consulting services. In line with current budgetary practice,
proceeds of the Credit would be passed internally by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) to the Nei Monggol and Ningxia Regional Governments at
an interest rate of 4% with repayment over 20 years including a five-
year grace period. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Regional Governments. Most IDA funds would be disbursed directly to
vendors under standard ICB arrangements. An additional portion would
be used by the regional governments to cover the costs of technical
assistance and training. The remaining IDA funds would be onlent by
the regional governments to the governments of the Ba League and Yinnan
Prefecture and by the latter, in turn, to the project counties, for
activities under their respective administrations.
4.7    Project Agreements incorporating the above terms and conditions
would be signed between IDA and the Governments of the Nei Monggol
and Ningxia Hui Atutonomous Regions. State Council approval of the two
Project Agreements as well as the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit. The DCA would give
separate treatment to project activities in the two regions by
specifying Part A for Nei Monggol and Part B for Ningxia in tne Project
Description and Schedule for Allocation of the Credit and by providing
for establishment of two Special Accounts.
4.8     Domestic funds, which account for about 46% of project costs,
would come from contributions from the Central Government in the form
of special budgetary allocations and the resources of the regional,
prefectural (league), county, and township governments. In the case
of the Hetao 'component, Central Government grants would be from two
sources: (i) capital construction funds channeled through MWREP and
(ii) funds supplied directly to the Ba League for small-scale water
conservancy works. Additional contributions to the project would come
from the regional government's grain base development fund, the Ba
League's own budget, and labor supplied by area farmers. For the
Yinnan component, the Ningxia regional government would contribute to
the project a portion of special grant moneys allocated by the
Central Government for development of poverty areas. Other
contributions would be from county budgetary allocations and labor
levies on benefiting households. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the regional and other local governments would
provide in timely fashion the required contributions.
Recovery of Project Investments
4.9    Local branches of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) and
the People's Construction Bank of China (PC3C) would serve as



- 34 -
agents of the county and prefecture PHOs in both disbursement and
recovery of project funds for a service charge to be agreed between
the parties. Full recovery of the IDA portion of total project
funding would be guaranteed by the bureaus of finance in the counties
and prefectures participating in the project. Counties would repay
prefectures and regions which, in turn, would repay MOF for the use
of the IDA Credit. Domestic funds would be recovered on terms and
conditions determined by the local governments. Recovery of funds
from project beneficiaries would be achieved in Hetao through
contributed labor and payments received from purchase of fertilizer
and other agricultural inputs and in Yinnan, through repayments of
long-term, interest-free loans extended to benefiting households
and loans to township enterprises which would be based on prevailing
ABC terms and conditions. Details of cost and rent recovery indices
are given in Chapter 6.
C. Execution of Project Works
4.10    Construction of the project's canals, drains, and control
structures would, in large part, be contracted to local construction
companies under local competitive bidding procedures now being drawn
up by the Nei Monggol and Ningxia WRBs (para. 3.33). Contracts would
be signed between the construction companies and local WRBs; the PMOs
would be responsible for contract management. County governments
would organize local farm labor to carry out earthworks, erection of
small structures, and land leveling. The project resettlement
program would  be directed by   resettlement  units  established
within the regional, prefectural, and county PMOs. These units would
work closely with offices under the agricultural commissions which have
managed region-wide resettlement over the past ten years (Annex 5).
Infrastructure development, including water, power, and roads, would
be carried out by the appropriate line agencies of the local governments.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Regional PMOs
would submit an annual budget and program of works for new construction
and operation and maintenance of existing project areas to IDA for review
by November 1 of each year in respect of work to be carried out in the
following year.
D. Operation and Maintenance
Operation and Maintenance Costs
4.11    Operation and maintenance costs for the Hetao and Yinnan
irrigation schemes would be met by a combination of water use fees
and some form--either free or partial wage--of contributed labor.
Both Nei Monggol and Ningxia, in accordance with current MWREP
guidelines, are adjusting water rates upward to encourage more
efficient water use and to make available at the local level funds
for management, maintenance and repair of canals, drains, and
structures. Water fees are collected from farmers by water users
groups, each representing about 20 families, and transferred to the
finance units within the appropriate canal management offices
(Charts 1 and 2). Steps are being taken not only to adjust rates



- 35 -
upward, but to institute new methods of assessment; that is, to shift
from the fixed per mu assessment in force until now to volumetric
measurement.
4.12    In Hetao,  current water charges average YO.002/cu m which
is sufficient to cover only about a quarter of total 0 & M costs.
The NMWRB plans to increase water fees in the project area to
YO.009/cu m in 1988 and to YO.013 three years after project completion.
These levels would guarantee 100% recovery of O&M costs and allow for
accumulation of funds for equipment replacement and other capital
investments. Farmers in Yinnan would be liable for contributed labor;
but, in the case of the new lift irrigation areas, would be exempt
from water charges during the first three years of the project.
The fee schedule introduced from the fourth year on would be geared to
achieving recovery of O&M costs in accordance with the following
schedule: (i) for the lift irrigation subareas, 40% recovery in years
4-5, 60% in years 6-7, 80% in years 8-9, and 100% beginning in year 10
and (ii) for the gravity irrigation subareas, full recovery two years
after completion of proiect works in the case of existing areas and,
in the case of new areas, full recovery beginning in the fourth year.
The main reason for this extended scheduie is the limited repayment
capacity of Yinnan's farmers during the frcit ten years of the project
(para. 6.4).  An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
Regional Governments would collect water fees, at rates to be raised
progressively, to meet full operation and maintenance costs within
three years after project completion in Hetao and, in Yinnan, by the
fourth year after project completion for gravity-supply irrigation and
by the tenth year for lift-supply irrigation.
Operation and Maintenance Manual
4.13    As part of the reorganization of the water management structure
in Hetao, the NMWRB would prepare an operation and maintenance manual
(ONM) defining design standards, specifying the dimensions and capacity
of existing works, and outlining the procedures for system operation,
maintenance and repair and the specific responsibilities of each
management unit within the Hetao General Bureau and the Ba WRB. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that (a) the Nei Monggol
Regional Government would maintain the Hetao General Bureau in
accordance with national guidelines for management of large-scale
irrigation areas and (b) NMWRB would submit a draft OMK to IDA for
review and approval by June 1990 and the final version by December 1992.
The final OMK would be distributed to all management departments,
offices and sections of the General Bureau and the Ba WRB.
E. ManaRement of Production Activities
4.14    Departments of agriculture, animal husbandry, and forestry at
the regional, prefectural and county levels would be responsible for
overseeing production activities throughout the life of the project.
Seed companies, organized as independent accounting units under local
agricultare departments, would supply farmers with seeds of improved
crop varieties; fruit tree seedlings would be provided by specialized
households under contract with the local agriculture and forestr-



- 36 -
departments. Fertilizers and pesticides would be available for
purchase primarily through supply and marketing cooperatives (SMCs)
which manage supply of inputs at the grassroots level in accordance
with allocation plans drawn up by the agriculture departments. The
SMCs also sell other production items, such as farm tools and
equipment, and arrange for purchase and processing of farm output.
The agriculture and animal husbandry departments would provide
technical extension and training to project area farmers. Credit,
mainly loans to purchase fertilizer, small tractors, and farm tools,
would be available through existing ABC offices and rural credit
cooperatives.
F. Project Launch Workshop
4.15   To initiate the implementation phase of the proposed project,
Bank and local staff would conduct a project launch workshop in
either Nei Monggol or Ningxia for staff of the regional, prefectural,
and county PMOs. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the
total process of implementation and to clarify individual tasks and
responsibilities at each level. Topics to be covered would include:
procurement and disbursement procedures, project financial management,
and project monitoring and evaluation.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.16    The regional, prefectural, and county PMOs would monitor
project progress and evaluate the project's economic benefits and
overall impact.  The county PMOs would keep a .urrent account of
physical and financial progress of the project. Physical indicators
would include such items as km of canals and drains constructed,
ha of land leveled, and tons of fertilizer procured. Financial
reports would track project expenditures and claims for disbursement
against Credit proceeds. Information on financial and physical
progress would be submitted semi-annually to the prefectural PMOs
which would prepare a progress report to be forwarded to the regional
PMOs.  Routine monitoring of physical and financial progress would
enable project management to identify problems and make whatever
adjustments might be required in institutional arrangements, procurement
schedules, and resource flows. As part of the process of project
evaluation, early in the implementation period the prefectural PMOs
would survey the project areas to determine, inter alia, current
levels of inputs and production, crop yields, salinity levels, and
farm incomes. These surveys would form the base line from which to
measure changes resulting from the project. An on-going evaluation
of the project would be included in semi-annual progress reports
which would be prepared by the regional PMOs for submission to IDA
within one month of the end of each half year. The final, broad
assessment of the project's impact would be the substance of the
Project Completion Report to be submitted to IDA not later than six
months following completion of Credit disbursements. A list of key
monitoring indicators is given in Annex 2.



- 37 -
V. PRODUCTION MARKETS, AND PRICES
A. Production
5.1       The project would bring about only moderate change to
existing cropping patterns in Hetao and Jinyintan, the two areas
where irrigation and drainage works would be improved or extended,
but would generate large increases in yields and output of annual
and permanent crops and livestock products. Since little change
would be expected in these two project areas in the absence of new
investment, current cropping patterns, yields, and production are
considered representative of the future "without" project situation.
Irrigated agriculture would be expanded or greatly improved in the
lift irrigation areas of Yinnan, supporting a large increase in crop
and livestock production on these previously uncropped or low
productivity lands. Current and with project cropping patterns,
average yields, and production are summarized in Table 5,1.
Cropping Patterns
5.2       In Hetao, it is expected that the project would bring
about some change in the area planted to individual annual crops,
slightly increase the multiple cropping index, and significantly
expand permanent crops' share of total cultivated area. Wheat
would continue to be the most important crop, but would decline
from over 40% of the annual crop area at present to just over 30%
of the expanded annual crop area at full development. In order
to support the large planned increases in animal numbers and
livestock productivity, it is expected that corn and fodder crops
would increase from about 20% of annual crop area at present to
one third at full development. The area planted to other annual
crops, including sunflower, linseed, sugarbeet, and vegetables,
would not be expected to change significantly with the project.
The growing season is generally too short to allow for double
cropping, though farmers would expand the small area of follow-on
melon at full development. Permanent crops would increase from
6% of Hetao's cultivated land area at present to more than 15% at
full development. Increases in area planted to windbreaks and
improved pasture would account for nearly all of this increase.
Windbreaks, mostly poplars, are common in China's northern irrigation
areas and are harvested for construction poles beginning in the
sixth year after establishment.
5.3       In Yinnan, the project would bring about no significant
change in the cropping patterns of the 4900 ha to be rehabilitated
in Jinyintan but would establish a new wheat-based cropping pattern
on 31,350 ha to be serviced by lift irrigation. Due to suitability
of the soils and long standing tradition, rice is the dominant crop
in the Jinyintan area. All other annual and permanent crops,
including wheat, corn, sunflower, vegetables, windbreaks, and tree
fruits, together occupy about 70% of cultivated area. In the area
to be serviced by lift irrigation, wheat is expected to occupy about
30% of the cultivated land area at full development. Wheat's dominant
position in the cropping pattern reflects the fact that it is the
staple food in Ningxia's upland areas and is well suited to growing



- 38 -
Table Ms  CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRDUCTION
Present                At FuLt Devatopent        Change
in
Area    Yietd   Output      Area    Yietd   Output   Output
Project Area                          he     Vho       '000       ha     t/ha      '000     '000
Hetec
AnnuaL Crops
-wheat                      73,000      2.50      183   e8,000      4.13      273        90
-corn\a/                    28,000      3.25       91   39,000      6.00      234       145
-sunftcer                   21D000      1.50       32   23,000      2.50       56        26
tLinseed                     7,000      1.10        a    7,000      1.65       12         4
-sugerboat                  15,W0      20.00      300   15,000    30.00       450       150
-vgotabtes                  11,000    18.00       19    15,000    25.00       375       177
-foddor\b/                   9,000      2.00       16   31,000      3.75      t11       100
subtotal (cultivated)   163,000                      196,000
-_eLon (foLLowon)            7,000    12.50        88   i4,000    20.00       260      i1
aubtotot (sown)          170,000                     210,000
Permanent Crops
-timber (poles)             10,000    255\c/    2550   28,000    255\c/    7140        4580
-improved posturo\b/            -         -        -    14,000       2.0        29       29
Totl (cultivated)         173,000                     238,000
Anim,L Huobandry
-Large aniaLs (1'0001                              98                          107
-sheep ('000)                                     591                        1500
moat (tonsl                                    2069                       1270      102
skin  (1'000)                                   148                          75       227
wooL (tons)                                     709                        2700      1991
Yinnon (Lift irrigation)
AnnuaL Crops
-wheat                          -         -        -      9U000     4.50        41       41
corn\W/                        -         -        -     4,000      6.75       27        27
-1titet                         -         -        -     2,0J0      3.75         a        a
-sunfLmowr                      -         -        -     2,000      2.50         5        5
-Linseed                        -         -        -     1,000      2.25         2        2
-vegetabtes                     -         -        -     1,000    22.50         23       23
subtotoL (cuLtivated)         -                       1S,000
Permanent Crops
-timber (poLes)                 -         -        -     3,850    255\c/       962 
-orchard                        -         -        -     3,800      15.0        57       57
-parenniaL posture\b/           -         -        -     4,700       4.1       1S        1S
Totat (cultivated)                                     31,350
AnimaL Husbandry
-Large animlts ('000)                              -                           24
-sheep ('000)                                      -                           70
meat (tons)                                      -                         1445      1445
skins ('W0)                                      -                           43        43
wooL (tons)                                      -                          300       300
\W/ IncLudes barley and other coarse grains.
\b/ Yietd expressed as hay equivelent.
\o/ Yiotd figure Ie 255 polso par ha per annum.



- 39 -
conditions in Tongxin, Guhai, and Langpiziliang. Corn, millet, and
perennial pasture (alfalfa) would occupy another 30% of the land area
and would support the planned development of livestock production.
The remaining land area would be planted to annual crops, including
sunflower, linseed, melons and vegetables, and to windbreaks and orchard.
Crop Yields and Production
5.4       The project would increase existing yields in Hetao and
Jinyintan primarily by leaching salt from the snil, reducing
waterlogging, and increasing the use of improved farm inputs. At
present, yield levels vary significantly within these two project
areas in accordance with differences in salinity levels and extent
of waterlogging, ranging from less than 50% to more than 75% of
expected average full development yields. Based on average yields
attained on land in or near the project area with adequate drainage
and little salinity, it is expected that average wheat yields wcould
increase by about 65%, from 2.5 tons/ha at present to 4.1 tons/ha
at full development. Despite a reduction in area sown to wheat of
7,000 ha, this expected yield increase would be sufficient to
increase wheat production at full development by 90,000 tons.
Average corn yields are expected to increase by 85%, from 3.25 tons/ha
at present to 6.0 tons/ha at full development. In combination with
increased area sown to corn, this expected yield increase would result
in an increase in corn production at full development of more than
140,000 tons. Reflecting somewhat better soils and drainage, expected
yields for wheat and corn in the lift irrigation area are expected to
be slightly higher than in Hetao and Jinyintan, reaching 4.5 tons/ha
and 6.75 tons/ha respectively at full development. Current and full
development yields and production levels for other annual and
permanent crops are detailed in Table 5.1. It is expected that, with
the exception of the area planted to fruit trees, it will require 9 to
10 years to achieve these yield and output levels throughout all of
the project areas.
Livestock
5.5       Livestock production in the project areas is based upon
small ruminants, mostly sheep, with some draft animals and a small
but increasing dairy herd. Currently, sheep feed on browse, which
is limited by the short growing season and overgrazing, crop residues,
and some natural pasture located on saline lands within Hetao and
Jinyintan. With the project, livestock production will be more
closely integrated into crop production with fodder crops, permanent
pasture, and improved grassland becoming the new primary feed resources.
These feeds will be supplemented by crop residues and browse and,
during critical periods of animal development, be complemented by
concentrate feeding of corn or other coarse grains. Sheep numbers
are expected to increase from 0.59 million at present to 1.5 million
at full development in Hetao and to reach 0.17 million at full
development in Yinnan. Reflecting greatly improved nutrition and
management practices, average annual offtake per animal is expected
to increase from 3.5 kg of meat and 1.2 kg of wool at present to 8.5 kg
of meat and 1.8 kg of wool at full development.



- 40 
B. Markets
5.6       The project will produce commodities which are in short
supply at the regional or national levels and, consequently, market
prospects for the project's incremental output of these goods are
excellent.   Incremental production of four of the project's eight
principal outputs -- wheat and other grains, sugar, wool, and timber
-- will serve to partially offset large and growing regional and/or
national imports of these goods. China is a net exporter of the other
four principal project outputs -- edible vegetable oil, lamb, fruits
and vegetables, and animal hides. Domestic demand for these products
is very strong and is continuing to expand in response to rapid income
growth in both urban and rural areas. It is expected that the bulk of
incremental output of these products will be consumed in the project
areas or in nearby urban areas with only limited quantities available
for export outside the regions or the country.
Wheat and Other Grains
5.7       In 1985-86, when the volume of grain exports equalled or
exceeded imports, China achieved self-sufficiency in grain production
for the first time in over two decades. This was accomplished through
a large increase in coarse grain exports in 1985 and a more modest
decrease in fine grain imports. However, as shown in Table 5.2,
China and the regions remain large net importers of wheat and other
fine grains.\l/ Annual net imports of wheat, at 0.78 and 5.38 million
tons, account for about 75% and 100% of Nei Monggol's and national net
fine grain imports respectively. Consequently, there would be no
difficulty in selling incremental project wheat production, which would
account for 42% of incremental grain output, to established regional
markets which now rely on other provinces for a portion of their
supply. Since Nei Monggol imports a small portion of its wheat
directly from foreign suppliers, incremental wheat production will
also help reduce international wheat imports. Corn, rice, and millet
are expected to account for the remaining 58% of project incremental
grain production.  Although China is now a net exporter of these grains,
Nei Monggol currently imports over 250,000 tons of rice and about
250,000 tons of corn and other coarse grains so that, together, the
regions remain net importers of these grains. Consequently, it is
expected that incremental project output of corn, rice, and millet
will partially offset there growing regional imports and provide a
portion of the feedgrain necessary for continued expansion of
livestock production.
\l/ Ningxia has also achieved basic grain self-sufficiency in
recent years. However, since grain trade data disaggregated by
grain are not available for Ningxia, the Regional balance of fine
and coarse grain trade is not known.



- 41 -
Table 5.2: REGIONAL AND NATIONAL *'.j'5AL NET TRADE
IN PRINCIPAL PROJECT OUMPUTS
Nei Monggol      Ningxia           China
Net  Annual     Net  Annual      Net  Annual
Trade     Net   Trade     Net   Trade      Net
Coimodity        Unit  Status   Trade  Status   Trade  Status   Trade
Importer at
National Level
Wheat         '000 tons      M     780     \a/      \a/       M   5,380
Sugar        '000 tons       X      51       X        4       M   1,726
Wool          '000 tons      X      16       M        1       M     111
Timber        '000 cum       X    1756       M      209       M   9,710
Exporter at
Fational Level
Edible oil   '000 tons       X      18       N        2       X     407
Lamb         '000 tons       X       4       M        6       X      na
Hides       '000 skins       X    1571       M       37       X  17,790
Fruits &
vegetables  '000 tons      na      na      na       na       X   1,001
Source:   Nei Monggol and Ningxia Regional Agricultural Commissions
for regional data and 1986 Chinese Statistical Yearbook (Beijing:
SSB, 1986) for national data.
\a/ Ningxia has achieved basic self-sufficiency in grain production.
Data are not available for net trade in wheat.
Note:     Regional data are annual averages for 1981-85 (Sixth Five
Year Plan) and national figures are for 1985. "Ml indicates net
importer, "X" indicates net exporter, and "na" indicates not
available. Edible oil includes oilseeds expressed in oil equivalent.
Wool includes cashmere. Hides include sheep, goat and cattle skins.
Sugar, Wool and Timber
5.8       As shown in Table 5.2, China imports large quantities
of sugar, wool, and timber. The 1985 import value of these goods
was over US$ 1.4 billion, accounting for nearly 4% of China's
total imports in that year. Driven by rapid income growth and
increasing exports of processed woolen goods, growing domestic
demand for these goods has not been adequately matched by growth
in production. Nei Monggol is a significant surplus producer of
these goods. Ningxia now produces a small surplus of sugar but
is a net importer of wool and timber. Thus, while a portion of
incrementel output of these three products will be sold within
the regions, it is expected that the majority will be sold to ready
markets in other provinces -- helping to offset China's growing
imports of these goods.



- 42 -
Edible Oil, Lamb, Fruits and Vegetables, and Hides
5.9       In response to rapid rural and urban income growth in
recent years, domestic demand for vegetable oil, lamb, fruits and
vegetables, and animal skins has increased substantially. Despite
relatively tight supplies of these products, China manages to export
large quantities of vegetable oil, animal hides, and fruits and
vegetables and lesser quantities of lamb. Nei Monggol is a
significant surplus producer of animal skins, supplying almost 1.6
million hides to the national market annually, and sells lesser
quantities of vegetable oil and lamb to other provinces. Ningxia,
by comparison, has a small trade deficit in each of these three goods.
No data are available for regional trade in fruits and vegetables,
but it is known that the regions export some specialty fruits and
vegetables -- including Chinese wolfberry and "facai" -- and that
limited quantities of these high value fruits and vegetables are
sold abroad. It is expected that a portion of incremental project
output of oilseeds, lamb, fruits and vegetables, and especially hides
would contribute to China's efforts to sustain or increase current
export levels of these goods. It is likely, however, that most
of the output would be sold on the regional and national markets
in order to satisfy rapidly growing domestic demand.
C. Prices
5.10      In recent years, China has implemented a number of reforms
intended to expand the role of markets and prices in directing the
production and trade of most agricultural commodities. In 1984,
the quota procurement system was replaced by a contractual procurement
system under which the Government sets contract prices annually in
response to changing market conditions. Although the new contract
procurement system has not been uniformly implemented in all regions
or for all products, the overall effect has been to bring contract
prices for most crops more closely in line with market prices and to
allow most farmers somewhat greater autonomy in establishing cropping
patterns. In 1985, wholesale and retail prices and marketing of fruits,
vegetables, livestock products, and a range of other commodities were
decontrolled. In response, prices of these products rose by 20 to 40%
in the first half of 1985 and the bulk of commercial production of
these goods is now traded on the free market. As a result of these
reforms, project farmers now face prices which closely approximate
world or free market prices in the case of inputs and outputs which
are actlively traded in the free market, but which differ, sometimes
greatly, from world market prices in the case of products which are
not traded outside the state-run marketing system. The state-run
marketing system's "procurement" prices are compared with free market
and world prices (adjusted for international and domestic transport
costs) for selected project inputs and outputs in Table 5.3.



- 43 -
Table 53: PRICES FOR SELECTED INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
(yuan per ton)
Sugar      Greasy Nitrogen
Price          Wheat  Corn  Oilseeds   beet  Lamb  Wool   (31%)   DAP
Domestic
Contract         442   328       910      90  3400  6060       360  700
Negotiated       600   500       840     110  3000  6000
Free market      620   500       900          4600  6000
share procured
at contract
prices:         90%   15%       95%    100%    6%   75%      100% 100%
World
1987             764   240       502      78  4167 12783       440  872
1995             875   393       699     149                   691 1071
Source:   Nei Monggol Agricultural Commission for domestic prices and
EPD ("Half Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts," September,
1987) for world prices.
Note:     World prices have been adjusted for international and
domestic transport costs and are expressed in 1987 constant yuan.
See Annex 3 for commodity definitions. Percentage figures are share
of commercial output procured at contract prices.
Input Prices
5.11      Farm inputs, which are mostly distributed through the
state-run marketing system or whose allocation is otherwise controlled
by the state, have been underpriced in the project area and throughout
China for many years. Since several recent agricultural reforms have
focussed on increasing input prices, however, these distortions are
now in most cases limited and on the decline. Recent reforms, for
instance, have promoted the financial and managerial independence of
China's seed companies. Most seed companies in the project area are
now profit-making enterprises, selling their seed to project farmers
at prices sufficient to maintain adequate profit margins. Chemical
fertilizer prices, by comparison, understate the cost of imported
fertilizer by an estimated 22% and 25% in the case of nitrogenous and
phosphatic products respectively. Further, the state-run marketing
system uses its near complete monopoly of high quality fertilizer
supplies to influence cropping patterns and marketing rates -- farmers
agreeing to sell grain to the state at low "procurement" prices are
guaranteed chemical fertilizer at low "planned" prices. However,
current reforms call for increasing fertilizer prices to levels which
w.ould adequately cover production and marketing costs and pilot
programs are now underway to expand free market trade of fertilizer.
Water supply has also been heavily subsidized, but this problem will
be corrected through marked increases in water charges under the



- 44 -
project (para 4.12). In stm, most farm inputs are now underpriced
but these subsidies are being reduced and the related distortions in
application rates and cropping patterns rapidly eliminated.
Output Prices
5.12      Project farmers receive free market prices for products,
including lamb, hides, fruits and vegetables, and timber (poles),
which are traded mostly or at least ir. large part outside the state-
run marketing system. These free market prices are sufficient to
make production of these products profitable and, in the case of goods
which are traded internationally, closely approximate world market
prices. By comparison, project farmers receive contract or negotiated
contract pr'.ces for products which are procured by the state-run
marketing system, including wheat, corn and other grains, sugar, wool,
and oilseeds. Contract prices for these products closely approximate
loc.- free market prices (with the exception of wheat), but differ
sha.-i.y from international prices.
5.13      As shown in Table 5.3, roughly 90% of commercial wheat in
Hetao is procured by the state-run marketing system at contract prices
which are 30% below the free market price and 40% below the current
international price. Similarly, 75% of commercial wool is procured
at contract prices which are less than half the international price.
By comparison, the state-run marketing system procures about 85%, 100%,
and 95% of dommercial corn, sugar beet, and oilseed production at
negotiated prices which exceed the international price by 155%, 40%,
and 90% respectively. The effect of these distortions is somewhat
muted by the low proportion of commercialized production -- farmers
market 30-40% of their crops in Hetao and 20-30% in Yinnan. Further,
as shown in Table 5.3, expected increases in future international
prices would indicate that the current distortions in domestic prices
of corn, sugar beet, and oilsesds will decline sharply in the near
future. Although the government has called for a one or two year
hiatus in agricultural pricing reform, pilot programs to eliminate
the differentials between procurement, free market, and world prices
are planned for various parts of the country.
Financial and Economic Analysis
5.14      The project financial analysis has been conducted using
1987 procurement or negotiated prices for those inputs and outputs
traded primarily within the state-run marketing system and free
market prices for those traded primarily outside that system. Future
financial price trends for individual commodities remain uncertain,
but it is unlikely that administered producer prices will suffer
significant declines (at least in local currency terms) since the
government is committed to maintaining agricultural production
incentives, and free market prices will generally reflect buoyant
demand prospects. For the economic analysis, farm input and output
values are based upon current international prices and Bank Group
commodity price forecasts, adjusted for international and domestic
transpo t costs, and expressed in 1987 constant yuan. Conversion
factors are. used to derive economic prices for items which do not
enter international trade. The current financial wage rate ranges



- 45 -
between Y4.0 per workday in Hetao and Y3.0 per workday in Yinnan.
Given the severe underemployment in Yinnan and the fact that current
wages in Hetao overstate labor's marginal product by an amount roughly
equal to the imputed rental "alue of farmland, the economic value
of unskilled labor has been estimated at about 50% of these financial
wage rates multiplied by the consumption conversion factor of 1.35.
The shadow wage rates adopted in the economic analysis are thlus Y2.7
and Y2.0 in Hetao and Yinnan respectively. Current and projected
financial and economic prices and conversion factors are summarized
in Annex 3.
VI. PRODUCTION, BENEFITS, AND RISKS
A. Production and Benefits
6.1       The project would improve irrigation and drainage on
214,900 ha in Hetao and Jinyintan and expand or complete irrigation
for an additional 31,350 ha in Yinnan. At full development, annual
incremental output is expected to include 133,000 tons of wheat,
181,000 tons of corn and other grains, 38,000 tons of oilseeds,
over 600,000 tons of sugar beet, fruits and vegetables, over 12,000
tons of lamb and other meats, 2300 tons of wool, and additional
quantities of timber and animal hides. Expressed in 1987 constant
dollars, the value of incremental output will be about US$ 93 million
annually. Additionally, the project would provide produtctive
employment, improved living conditions and safe drinking water for
54,150 settlers in Yinnan.
B.  Farm Incomes
6.2       The project wov.ld improve income levels and living
standards for about 122,630 households, including 96,300 and 15,500
families currently residing in Hetao and Yinnan respectively and an
additional 10,833 families yet to resettle to the Yinnan project area.
Including off-farm income, annual average per capita income within
the project areas ranges from about Y510 in Hetao to Y325 in Jinyintan,
with farm income accounting for Y420 and Y310 respectively. Average
per capita income in Hetao exceeds 1986 national average rural income
(Y424) by 20% and Nei Nonggol Regional average rural income by about
30g. Income levels in Jinyintan are more than 20% below the national
average but roughly equal Ningxia average rural income -- somewhat
below the levels achieved in more productive irrigated agricultural
areas but well above the levels of upland rainfed areas. With average
per capita income levels falling below Y80, settler families currently
residing in the upland areas outside the Yinnan project area are amongst
China's poorest. Government transfers in cash and kind are currently
sufficient to raise income levels to about Y200 per year in these areas.
6.3       An analysis of farm incomes has been undertaken for each
of these three groups: model A tracks annual income for a representative
household with 4.3 family members currently farming 1.7 ha, increasing
to 2.2 ha at full development, in the Hetao area; model B for a family
of 5 farming 1.4 ha in the Jinyintan area; and model C for a family of
5 farming 1.35 ha in the Yinnan lift irrigation area. Model A shows



- 46 -
that total household income, at about Y2200, is little changed in the
first three years of the Hetao subproject, then increases sharply
during years 4 through 8, and reaches its full development level of
Y3910 in year 13. The trend in model B is much the same except that,
since farm size in Jinyintan is significantly less than in Hetao, full
development total income is expected to be about Y3220.' By comparison,
farm income in model C increases quite steadily in all years until
reaching a peak of Y2760 in year 11. Total income is constant at
Y1000 in years 1 through 4, however, since government transfers and
project related employment (to be compensated at the rate of Y1.4 per
workday during the first years of project construction) will be
tailored to maintain annual household income at this level. At full
development, rural per capita income in constant terms for the three
populations is expected to reach Y910, Y645, and Y568, representing
increases of 80%, 100%, and 185% over current levels respectively.
Farm budgets and models used in the analysis are detailed in Annex 3.
6.4       Poverty Alleviation.  Ningxia authorities estimate that
some 400,000 people, or 10% of the Regional total, have annual income
levels below the national poverty line of Y200. Poverty in Ningxia
is extreme by Chinese standards -- average annual income for these
400,000 as a whole is only about Y80 per capita, or less than one-fifth
the national average for rural areas -- and poverty alleviation in the
Region is a national priority. The project would increase income
levels above the poverty line for some 100,000 of these poor, or about
one-quarter of the Regional total. About half of the beneficiaries
would be members of households to be resettled under the project.
The analysis of farm incomes indicates that the income of these new
settlers would surpass the poverty line in the fifth year after
resettlement and reach a peak of about Y570 per capita beginning in
year 11. In addition to adequate supplies of safe drinking water and
fuel for cooking and heating, which are currently nonexistent or in
short supply for many of these poor, new settlers will receive partial
funding for first year housing and farm inputs and enjoy greater access
to health, education, and other social service infrastructure. The
other half of the beneficiaries would be recent settlers, now erngaging
ir. their first or second year of irrigated crop production, who would
benefit from improvement and completion of existing lift irrigation
facilities. These recent settlers would surpass the poverty line and
achieve full development income levels one or two years prior to new
settlers. housing and most social service infrastructure for these
recent settlers is already in place.
C. Cost and Rent Recovery
6.5       Recovery of project costs and rents would come in the
form of (i) contributed labor during project construction, (ii)
payments received from beneficiaries for the purchase of chemical
fertilizer, planting materials, animal stock and other farm inputs,
(iii) increased water charges, and (iv) contributed labor for project
OEM. In addition, the completion of the Yinnan subproject will
eliminate the need for public outlays, amounting to nearly Y7 million
annually, as welfare payments to some 22,830 households in and around
the project area. Public sector outlays are defined as project
investment costs, including settlement, and O&M costs, but exclude



- 47 -
the Yinbei studies and those farm development costs which will be
recovered through sales to farmers, fees for service, or loan repayment.
Cost recovery includes reduced public outlays for welfare assistance.
On this basis, the project's cost recovery index is estimated to be 27%.
Rent recovery at full development avezages 12%, ranging from 4% for
Jinyintan to 24% for Yinnan's lift irrigation subcomponent. Rent
recovery is greatest for Yinnan's lift irrigation subcomponent since
all water charges and contributed labor for O&H are incremental.
Rent recovery for Hetao and Jinyintan are comparatively less since
only a portion of future water charges and contributed labor can be
considered to be incremental. Discounted over the life of the project,
the rent recovery index is 20% for the project as a whole and ranges
from 8% for Jinyintan to 76% for Yinnan's lift irrigation subcomponent.
These levels of cost and rent recovery are considered adequate since
(i) procurement prices for wheat, the project's most important output,
are below market prices (para 5.12) and (ii) there would be full
recovery of O&H costs (para 4.12). Details of the estimates of cost
ani rent recovery are presented in Annex 3.
D. Economic Analysis
6.6       The economic analysis was carried out for the project
as a whole, for each of the investments in rehabilitation of existing
irrigation and drainage works in Hetao and in Yinnan, and for the
expansion and completion of lift irrigation in Yinnan. The total
economic investment cost used in the analysis, Y796 million, includes
physical contingencies plus the economic value of contributed labor
in project construction and excludes price contingencies. The
economic investment cost for Hetao, at Y622 million, excludes the
purchase costs of O&M machinery and equipment and of agricultural
machinery and materials since appropriate operating and capital
recovery costs have been entered into the estimated budgets for O&M
and agricultural production. Similarly, the economic investment cost
for Yinnan, at Y174 million, excludes settlement costs since, in the
case of agricultural inputs, these costs are fully covered in the
agricultural production operating costs and, in the case of first
year housing and construction of roads, clinics, schools and other
social infrastructure, the unquantified social benefits would at
laast equal costs. The cost of the Yinbei Studies has also been
excluded since it is not immediately related to agricultural
production in Yinnan.   The analysis includes recovery of economic
O&M costs in full throughout the life of the project. Economic O&M
costs include electricity valued at the estimated long run marginal
cost of thermal power of YO.07 per kWh (instead of the subsidized
rate of YO.03 per kWh currently in use in the Yinnan lift irrigation
area), contributed labor valued at shadow wage rates (para 5.14),
as well other labor, management, maintenance, repair and replacement
costs expressed as economic values. All economic values were
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate expected
to prevail at negotiations of Y3.71 - US$1.00. Cost benefit streams
for Hetao, Jinyintan, and Yinnan's lift irrigation area are presented
in Annex 3.



- 48 -
6.7       Using these assumptions and discounting costs and benefits
over 30 years, the project's oveiall economic rate of return (ERR) is
20%, ranging from 17% for YinnanNs lift irrigation component to 21%
for rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage in both Hetao and
Jinyintan (Table 6.1). At a discount rate of 12%, which is considered
to approximate the opportunity cost of capital in China, the net
present value of the project is Y422 million (US$114 equivalent).
Sensitivity of the ERRs for each of the project areas was tested for
cost overruns, increased O&M costs, shortfalls from projected yields
or prices, elimination of tree crops, animal husbandry or fishponds
from the analysis, increased economic cost of labor, and a combination
of cost overruns and a shortfall in projected yields. None of these
variants to the analysis was sufficient to reduce the ERR of the
project or any of its subcomponents below acceptable levels. Switching
values (value of the variable tested at which the NPV of the project,
with benefits and costs discounted at 12%, is reduced to zero) were
calculated and are presented in Annex 3.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
Economic
Net
Economic Economic Present
Value of   Rate of    Value
Investment    Return   at 12%
Subarea or Variation                    (Y mln)        (%)  (Y mln)
Base Case
Hetao
-Rehabilitation                        622        21       347
Yinnan
-Expansion                             158        17        63
-Rehabilitation                         16        21        12
of which: fishponds                     4        20         2
-Total                                 174        17        75
Total Project                            796         20      422
Variations from Base Case
(Total Project)
-Investment costs up 20%                            17       317
-O&M costs up 50%                                   18       334
-Full development yields down 10%                   17       213
-Field crop prices down 20%                         15       129
-No tree crops in analysis                          19       326
-No animal husbandry in analysis                    18       323
-No fishponds in analysis                           20       418
-Shadow wage up 50%                                 18       328
-Investment costs up 20% plus
full development yields down 10%                    14      108
-- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -



- 49 -
E. Project Risks
6.8       The project faces no significant management or technical
risks. The project management structure is already in place at the
regional level and a parallel structure is being established at the
prefectural and county levels. The NMWRB and NXWRB, the leading
agencies involved in planning and construction of project works,
are adequately staffed with qualified engineers and managers and have
had decades of experience in construction, operation and maintenance
of large-scale irrigation schemes. Further, the reorganization of
the Hetao water resource agencies (paras. 2.17 and 2.18) has been
designed to correct for previous deficiencies in management of
drainage operations and project-financed programs of overseas and
local training would upgrade the management and technical skills of
staff at all levels. Of concern to Nei Monggol project authorities
is the possibility that higher salinity levels in the Wuliangsuhai
Lake would adversely affect the ecosystem in general and fish and reed
production in particular. However, project authorities have commissioned
a detailed environmental impact study and preliminary findings indicate
that the project would bring about only minor changes in salinity levels.
Project authorities will arrange for continuous monitoring of salinity
levels and will provide detailed summaries to the Bank annually.
Lastly, market prospects for the project's incremental output are
excellent and, should the profitability of any individual crop or
product decrease to unattractive levels, project farmers would have
ample latitude to shift production toward more profitable alternatives.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEATION
7.1     At  negotiations,  assurances were obtained from  the
Regional Governments that:
(a)   adequate quantities of chemical  fertilizer  nutrients
would be procured and made available to farmers and that an
annual program for such provision would be prepared and submitted
to IDA for review prior to November 1 of each year (paras. 3.13
and 3.20);
(b)   training would be carried out in accordance with a training
program which was agreed with IDA at negotiations (paras. 3.15 and 3.22);
(c)   the resettlement component would be carried out in
accordance with the plan submitted to IDA in October 1987 and
agreed at negotiations;
(d)   in Ningxia, (i) a working group  assisted by suitably-
qualified consultants, would be established under the Regional
Project Management Office to study the Yinbei area with terms of
reference for the study satisfactory to IDA and (ii) a report on
the study would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1991 (para. 3.21);
(e)i LCB procedures for Nei Monggol and Ningxia as well as
sample documenta would  be submitted to IDA for review and apnrnval
by June 30, 1988 and, in any case, prior to bid invitation (para. 3.33);



- 50 -
(f) Regional PMOs would maintain the consolidated accounts
for auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that
the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the close of each financial year (para. 3.37);
(g) in Nei Monggol, the NMWRB and the Nei Monggol Bureau of
Environmental Protection would continuously monitor salinity
levels in the trunk drain, the main drains and Wuliangsuhai Lake
with the results made available to IDA annually and that project
activities   would be  in  compliance  with   China's   national
guidelines on environmental control and acceptable to IDA (para. 3.39);
(h) the regional, prefectural, and county PCCs and PMOs
would be maintained during project implementation with staff,
functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.5);
(i) the regional and other local governments would provide
in a timely fashion the required contributions (para. 4.8);
(j)  the regional PMOs would submit an annual budget and
program of works for new construction and operation and
maintenance of existing project areas to IDA for review by
November 1 of each year in respect of work to be carried out in
the following year (para. 4.10);
(k)   water fees would be collected, at rates to be raised
progresively, to meet full operation and maintenance costs within
three years after project completion in Hetao and, in Yinnan, by
the fourth year after project completion for gravity-supply
irrigation and by the tenth year for lift-supply irrigation
(para. 4.12); and
(1)   in Nei Monggol, (i) the the Regional Government would
maintain the Hetao General Bureau in accordance with national
guidelines on mangement of large irrigation systems and (ii) the
NMWRB would submit a draft operation and maintenance manual
to IDA for review and approval by June 1990 and a final version
by December 1992 (para. 4.13).
7.2     The conditions of effectiveness would be approval by the
State Council of the Development Credit Agreement and the
execution of Project Agreements with the Nei Monggol and Ningxia
Hui Autonomous Regional Governments.
7.3    Subject to the above conditions,  the Northern Ir:igation
Project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Cre,iit of
SDR 72.7 (US$103 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with
a maturity of 35 years including five years of grace, to the
People's Republic of China.



- 51 -
Annex 1
Table 1
NTfH ZUXIATTON P0JET
stmea  Deals tatistiom  Iin
Administrative oar            Projct Area
go L"us                     (parts ot
(sm"    emtieel /a             rour co  tiea /b
Area (sq km)                           641                          346
Popelatian lOOW]                        1410                         410
AgricuLturat poPULation              $010                         414
Farm Lbor ftrea                       4U                          1a
Effective Irrigated area VOOD he)          i g/a                     173
Area soo  to emwel crope              406                          13
Posture                                 S 
Boded areseorchards                    40                           9
Soo  area crops ('00  hal                4                           1a
Wheat                                 1                            .78
Corn                                    1                          $
&nf tlr                                4                           31
Fla (ftor oI a)                                                     4
Sgar bet                               41                         1l
Other *rest                            U a
elons and veltales                                                 U
Fodder
Livestock  VOOO hbad/d                   8                           677
Large animates inclzuding             347                          U
Donkes                              a 
fMtes                              108                          3
CattLe                                                          1
ftreassU4
bOll  nivlse, inoltudinog            03 
Sep                               1458                         4W
/a  Counties area Hosqheu  Li1ms bysant Qinqi, Ooakwg  Zhengq. and osuqi.
/s  Inol*udx  port of tour  ettimoe  Neoghes, Linhoe Udlumaa Bhonqi.
/c  Etctiweo Irrigaetd aoe within the eatire hte  Irrigation area toutLs
U0,000 ha sinese it eslnsludea 11,600 he In Yikezho Logue (to the
oeth of Deagkoul and  Uatou   niipa"   (it  (to the set of Saleteqinqi).
/d Figures include Livest1ek Inside and owuside the irrigatoed area, Outside
the irrigated area, tetel Livestok (in '00 heudl14081 Large annea0Lo
cattLoeNl; hbreoroo0  smL  n100to  =1Uhg *heep*lO.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 2-
ANNEX 1
Table2
Ylreen Co1p0t1et00el.  etlttes ("a)
Prefet"re         Pretwolvre
(tive ometlee,  (six Goeslotls
two citie)/V
Aren (e    I km)                       13S4              3u
PNLB%1    V 1'                       1467              14
A10iotweL pepuLetlen                 13 
Pam U         f mg                    43               8
Effetive iur1esd ar  (l'o00 he)          57                4
Annse    too cp                        77 
poetere                                 a                a
Ue"  orseorsherds                      1                1
Oropped cc.. ['D0Ub.)                   US
Oett                                  731
Ni..                                   1                 O
Cm                                                       I
el ore a r1
vger Met .
Livetook (|       heed)                UE 
beSs                                 473               145
P_*                                  13                I
/a Yt.... Proefectre tecLudeui ma&'Mq se 210tueapais odttas sad WSM
oseusele  of Zetegl, Ze_nl.g. Li_gue Yeehl ed Tlheop.
/b  hlye. Prefecture imeLuiss  leysce  Iblen. X1JI1 Losnub  J1ven
md Pnys  sooetl.



allwo   aqua   tom    os Ja omen    elm ~**&aoamummg .au~pesa   ua
*  seu    Sow       sega    0's.   iuss   *U          esm    gem        too"    aues   e',ia   V'in   6055                   ,ub
*  3oU   2I'm    35618   IW'a Set             to338  5  aUa96    gem6    vose   Iowa   58a   201 aii rus oa
*     $'guM   usia sUia   i'm. *sia       a *3    Sus   rsa   g,em    SM            soma   SUNa   ro ia    s.ia               usu_u
0      aLI    5Soma  sliai  9oUaa   vsa:3  301,    r1Su    isow    Seats   r'SIi   rou    30515   *I1 in               15         UUI1.
'-                                                                                                                                UU A SD  sowI on  *A a*    alu  Oi  L  elm  Va   20Ia A98_
*     gOs      p0g. *-&         ale      SQS    1ola    55         il      #0a0a 1oc  5061    303    g*.    *...
X U*  30gI'    *-9-    So&      VIS      est    ,015    saia    VW         Seat    eofe    s'           -     Sol-    ,    _    3
usius&u     s       to-    0l0       Los      feet   3ss       .0a8  -0.        Seat    Sol$    Ve           -- s1s- rt-
a     ISo *I'S-    I'S-    tote5         e'll    toga a'll         Via     Sea      06 ss            Cot9- 305-  i0-9I nbUUi
o a   #U       16-    SO-    set         cl9o    1'Ii a Olg        W'5     soot    a's      t-0    Got-    900S-                  011!4
,    .e   too    9l's-    90S-    VeL        8et&    0'ta    P-8    iloa    I's&    3l           60e-     gle-     011.                MAUbRA
9Bli-9ilS t      coo -    tl&     se       al2     2069 B-  @a8    alga    BOB        e'ss    900      2o-       IS@-          lbaint^@ 1
*     ,,Ii"i .'6       Best    v881    v51        'Soia   riea   5o0oe    9066   rm    31es                   109               il-ubo-l
*  331   ISo&       38S      rSId    8'UI    i'M      o'ssc    1.166   Van    60638   5501    I'lL        S63W                $016
a|i^F|Z; 60   elm        el"-        au    res    Soma9  6a    e sa    a-ae   row    rav    v,g Co     a@z      elOO-          l*"@|W
*     CSIt              a,"     LI M    togn    tem    a698    8S38a el     5ISi   3'"i   &INS   U'85         9*w             UWlU3tU5t'
*         aSum    o'n  Olga    *iSl 0-0Ek   $100a    O-i68   S0m           s-ea6   1o' 0a 00938    0'LU       set         lbUUiimo ULUU
. e        C-eo w reu  u'e  C'1S    8,3    Cub    s'ea s    a        a ua    a'o  1-oua   suaa    nw.   ru e    oe tb u.k.,.
z-ow    111C    Sos-     awa6      @Soo    s-oa    splic    el cc            alw6sta   so- aWs   see   Sol                 040 wuo
*     a-_0   Cua       9#      Cesa&   Vwl   ruga   aesg           tome   6s0       *-Ia    5,       81 *-n   o-a                 MA
Not-0    fo        tont    clU      alwt   elM|    -0aia   come   c-@9e   $Om    a-ua    SOM    9492    9goo                     lbuiblo
*   1055                                                                                                             (Ml' 'l CP  '  '9 5U 30  '1 *  i S  WlUp.MV
*     *    * 0         go       s  t;a"em  s'    069      I'      00.      *'0      *'1      33      0'1     0-0              uu,sib
Viua    -*       al      loest    *-9t    g-"      SON      -ea    @902      els    ale       -a       Lot                 las
*Om        z  I'    Ol       see     ton 2a     8      sow9     Wat    011S    tt    Set          go9t    9 0                istAutr
miesel  s'Ue    101         #I       Sto$    Ilia    a.    alsos    Csl   e051    s"1a    a*i             VI1     300o         bSwe1,dawl
840"SA
*  06    810     61&     -fa tga    LOW            Son      331    spo       6It      ell     #00      101          6    buo Sbqg
*     6631o   *-       tS'      I'm     58a    tPw        Lots    So       $Is      aC      a-a      go      Sl                  U161
*  *om    O'        co       a*&     Solo    *1u       1602    00 "     Sea     ale      ca      set      to                  N"
M&-G1S   Mona   i's        not     Seu&    i'Me    u.se    OILS    C0u         too     V's      ale     Va       I"s'11
0s15                                                                                                                Ir)  Wim
PSIJOd us"          Me      me       Soo     due      6W       lr      Vq'W    A"        mdw     JWS      p   -1
- IL        1MN
- ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     M



-    1       91  ^            ll         .                 -9tX 
n fl          ..e    l  l  f        .fIlfl-flfl.  Z- I 
U-    U    ........              0    6    O     U     U
a.       **       9  .       a           a* .  .   .  .    . a  a
*  |    |  |a  IS                      'too 2a |       -0 SO '%  .
.J        * .   mu                       .                . & U U U  
!   .       ....    ...   .   ...........           .b..      ...     .
g                               9.    a sssI                         t  
A.   a3i3    3i  i  i              *8 in .  .4 i  %     i  a          .a
,~~~ n    ..f ........   . .
I   Xt    I                                                             II I } 
i | | | -l | | | :: "l1
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~*44b                            4             WI ii   !
U SI S                                                                  S        -
| |   |             I        i!i |                            [6'| |     
to ~ ~ ~ S
33            33__              .4.4____   ________ _._.4        *_
00             ..     .        ....
to_        lam_
.4.4  .....4 .4.4 .4 .4.......4.4.4.....
I X0                 U         0         U    C        m



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Hotaot Cost Summary
It"                LocoL  Foreign    TotaL    Locat Foreign    Total         F.EE
-(Y mi Llion)-    -(USS miLLion]-
CiviL Works:
Trunk drain                   35.0     35.0     70.0       9.5      9.5     19.9        50
Trunk conal                    3.8      5.8      9.6      1.0       1.8      2.6       a0
OrinagWe/rrigetion
Ntmork improvments          56.2     56.2    112.3     15.2      15.2     30.4       50
Subtotat              95.0      96.S    191.9     25,7      26.2     51.9       51
On-termO Dovelopments
Let. & SubLet, conals         15.1      0.0     15.1       4.1      0.0      4.1         0
Lat. & Subtot. drains         52.1      0.0     52.1     14.1       0.0     14.1        0
Field ditchedraiens           63.1      0.0     83.1      17.1      0.0     17.1         0
ftrucures                    16.4      24.5     40.9       4.4      8.6     11.1       s0
Land tovetling/soothing       14.7      0.0     14.7       4.0      0.0      4.0        0
TubweLL drainage               8.5      8.5     17.0       2.3      2.3      4.8        SO
Sub-surface drainage           4.1      4.1      9.2       1.1      1.1      2.2        50
subtotat             174.0      37.1    211.1     47.0     10.0      57.1       18
Electrification                  3.3      7.7     11.0       0.9      2.1      3.0        70
8uiLdings                       11.3      4.8     18.1       3.0      1.3      4.4        30
0  ItN achinery & equip.         0.0     26.3     26.3       0.0      7.1      7.1      100
Agricutturat machinery          11.8     22.8     34.6       3.2      5.2      9.4        68
and mgteriaLs
Office/Lob. equip.               0.0     11.5     11.5       0.0      3.1      3.1      100
Training and Tech. Assist.       3.8      3.8      7.6       1.0      1.0      2.1        50
EnginseringAanagment            9.2       1.0     10.2      2.5       0.3      2.8       10
8ese Cost                  308.3    212.0    520.3      93.3      57.3    140.8       41
Physical contingencies      11.5       8.7     20.2      3.1       2.3      5.4
Price contingencies          49.5     74.2    123.7       4.4      6.8     11.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST         389.2    294.9    664.2      S0.8    86.2    157.1         42



- 56 -
ANNZX 2
Table 2
CHDM
NOTHEM  IMNIATION       CT
Hat a Ebpmditur. Usheuta
(Y mittienI
Itm               136        1      131      131      im 1              1364  Totdl
Clvit nrkgl
Trunk Drain                5.0    10.0    a0.0    to.o    15.0                           70.0
Trunk Cmet                 1.0      3.I      3.0      3.l                                 3.3
0. a I m""k 1mpr,.    10.0    11.0         20.0    30.0    30.0    15.0   1.5   11.
on-fre  hveltep.et        10.0     15.0    20.0    45.0       Sl.0    45.0    16.1      3t .1
mbtott              "36.0    40.0     63.0    67.3      6.0    60.0    36.4  4AI.0
Elestri?lsetien              3.0      4.0      5.0                                         11.0
Ne1 Idtgo                    2.0      3.0      4.0      4.0      l.1                       16.1
NwhimerI, equipment I
inOPe1ns                     2.0      5.0    10.0    30.0       W.0    15.4                73.4
SUuinmesfio/1nenaeSnt        0.5      1.5      2.0      2.0      2.0      1.5      0.7    10.1
Tr?"ebln  a Toch. Assit.               1.0     1.5      1.5      2.0      1.0      L0.      7.6
sase Cost            33.5    5.1      655    115.1   112.1    77n.        36.1    1.S
Poysi100 cost.            .       3.3 2   3.2      4.4       4.8      3.0     1.S      0.3
Price fotingenoies        1.0       .0    15.1      26.3     31.4    27.5    13.4   133.7
TOTAL PROET COOT          34.8     u.8    103.7   145.3    147.3   106.4    57.4   65.3
-~                                        -                    



- - - - - - - -
isa9i   n@|t    Be"     C"      9S"     CIU    r*i    US 'Be    u   ml amS smI'ddl mim
01      0em    bVs      V's    O.       C'l0    goo   0co            IUSd* 61d4 pme.m*
8$1o    vVe     Moo   wesu         oo o96000    =00 0 J@l|llsi  esme m
eg    see    mre    ws*         as    =w*s    mls            -l1d   1'sein Isom
BOO     960     V-0     *@n       la    Va0     @@ tol    e             "i  ml| so" 
CMl  toU&       U'a    VI, is   BS      VUb    gob       U'1          nmm MI  pisO lUsU
i Ile   "I 'slWe U      i'    i'SS    emi    fro            "|'ai OlU  $335 Weg
SUi ntCb        NotL   ls ov    llof    see    u"        n'b          emI -WWN pIOWA
t'          PSS       e     m'  ta *s sin"   is" rwe             1@A 'smmS
ca      ban     so"     VIM1b    '      CU      VbS    run               (".1  A) '.f "OS-
_"twou astd P"sv so"
Iud   UWmM  UMLMSN
 *rq'j
- LS -



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
CHINA
NORTHERN TRRIGATIOK PROJECT
Nctant Cost Estimtes For Trunk Drain & Conat
ITEM                             TRUNK DRAIN                 TRUNK CANAL
DE9CRIPTION         Unit        Qty.   U.P.  Amount         Oty.   U.P.  Amount
(Y'000) tY MLn1            (Y'OOO  (Y ntn)
Mln.
Earth,ork Excavation      Cu.o.         14.2    1400  19.9                           0
Slops protection          xi1oo        214.MS       0  12.9          6.2     0.6   3.4
Cu.o.
Honghapok Pumping Stn.   *um                           20.7                        0.0
Structurass
Bridges                  no.             33     250   9.3                         0.0
FLume/aqueduct           no.             10     495   4.9                         0.0
End controLs             no.             30     120   3.6                         0.0
CanaL ReguLator          no.                           0.0            1    3130   3.1
Repair to Canal Drop    sun                            0.0                        3.0
TOTAL                                       70,1                         9.6



hsT.AD Cut Esfti.t.s for D S I Nrimt Lep,wmmans   C 0-faja Wmk
Orm            miLt :3rd Plin Dir. Systr   a"1.* 8ds, WxW& S:4th MbILa Dr. Sys.   A211* S8bhi Dr. Sys:7th IbJzn Dr. Sys.   :itaw Mbain Dr. Sys..   8h minh* De. Sys.    9th IbmA De. Sys.          Total
Qt"  ISP.   Am.   Qty  U.P.   Am.    Qty  U.P.   Am.  :Qty  U.?.   Am.   Qty  U.P.   Am.   QtY  US.P.   Am.   QtY  U.?.   Am.   (sty  U.?.   Am.    otp   U.?.  Am.
taavt I,:             :100                       .                                          .
M&Ln 4 Sub-ginz    ;mmf.  4520  1.08 4881.6  2520  1.44A  363.8  2761  1.05 2899.1  1380  1.11  1531.8   897  1. 28  1148.2  10NS  1.2  1.257.6   630  1.29  812.7  1950  1.29 2515.5  15706  1.19 18.468
Br. 1, & Sub-branch    *    '000  1.04  4243.2  1620  1.29 2139.8  2843  1.05 298.2   120  1.11  133.2  1547  1.28  1980.2  257`0  1.00 2570.0  2650   t.29 3418.5  1030  1.29  1320 7  1644    1.14 18.75
Haut:. Su.6-.wmlz    km   10.7 375.00  5012.5    IS 345.00 2475.0    19 315.00D 5985.0                    0.0 :7.3 146.00D 1065.8  20.4 148.50  3029.4  29.5 146.00 4897.0    18 163 00 29540  119.9 203.49  24. 40
Bram r1 & Sab-b      In h                        3.4 1.2000  408.0                   0.0  10.5 193.00 20.26.5   7.9 12A.0 W    79.6   8.7 107.00  930.9     6 130.0 W   80.0    1.1 127.00  139 7   17.6 140.02   5.26
PaNPix4 sn l.M. drain  Wa.                  0.0    20 15.00  300 0                    0.0      6 130.00   780.0     7 14.40  100.8       6 36.00  336.0       2 97.00D  184 0                   3 0     4 1 41 73  2.fn
I-p.* st.1b,.drainnos.          6 8135.00   810.0:    4 1400    56.0    19 83.50  1SM.65       1 14.00    42.0   12222.80   273.6:   20 17.00i  340.1     1132.00   352.0         4132.00   1200       79 4542   3.59
Cnot,i/. urctions    gma.   241 11.00  2651.0:  176  2.60   457.6    55 16.50   9075.   57  3460  2D5.2:    2 23.00    46.0:    1 29.00    29.0:   22  7.30   140.6:   43  3 80   163,    597  7.74   4 62
Brid#e  IbiS.road     oma.    12 28.00  456.0:    524-00   120 0         19 50.00   950.0-    4 2500   100.0:   22 45.00   990.0:    8 45.00   360.0:   10 45.00)  450.0:   21 5130O10815    101  44.61   4.51
Tractow       Mo.    40 22.00  880.0    18 20.00  360.0 .81 33.00 2673.0    30 18.40   552.0    41 1.5.00  615.0    55 19.50  1072.5    5824.80  967.2    33 20 70  483.1    337 23 1S  7.890
Padeatrim    cm.:    110.00    10.0:    3  6.00   18.0:   1I9.00    9.0:                           0.0:                 D.0:                 0.0:                 0.0:                 0.0       5  740   0.04
JRIUZAL              :17944.3 :9913.2 :                                      7995.2               5370.7 :7199.1                            9925.4              12032. 0              8973.9                89.35      U
11  110 CATI00       .      ...                                                                                                        
acat i:              :xlOQO                                          ..
Kam  I S11-ginn    :wi.m: 231  1.87  412.0:                    0.0   481  1.07  514.7:  35  1.10   18.5                        0.0    3.4  1.42    4.8    I 18   1.54  277.2                  0.0  9V  4  1.36  1.27
Bcao*h & Sab-branch:        547  2.00  1094.    SW55   1.42   M8.0 : 521.07 168. 5 :214  1.10  235.4   377  1.43   539.1 :363  1.42  515.5 : 866  1.51  1507.7   216  1.44   111.0   .Us3   1.58  6.41
Aq-d..-          nos.:    9 57.00)  533.0:   2  9.20)   18.4.    51100    65.0:                       0.0:    5 22.80   114.0:   13 15.40   200.2:    2035.00    70.0:        3 120      75I.0.    38 2707   1.06
C-ta-: bLUVS-binC.: no. :10 55.00   550.0:                       0.0      1254.00   254.0:    3  5.00   15.0:    1 63.80   63.8:    2  3.00)    6.0:    4 11.00   44.0:    1 20.0              20a0     22 43.63   08 6
Brmth C.        m3.:   15 27.00   405.0:   33  3.00   99.0:106 1146012296               4  9.20    36.8:   60  4.50   270.0:   58  5.30  307.4:   82  5.50   506.0:   4   5.70  273.6    416   7.52   3.13:
1.at.ISubkIat. C,Ms.:  217  4.00)  64.0:  141   3.30   493.5.11911.3013447:  104   3.50   364.0:  242  2.40   580.8:  171  2.50  427.5:  419  2.21)  811.8155   3.20  496.0   1368   3.51  5. 50:
I1r.d Paz: Min xad  :me. t 2 24.00   48.0:    2  8.00    16.0           528.00   140.0:    1 25.00    25.0:    9 23.00   207.0:    9133.40   300.6:    534.00)  170.0:   10 24.00   240.0.   43 26.67   1.15:
Tractor   :me. :15 11.00   143.0:   8  5.00    40.0   11.5 18.70 2150.5-   42 19850  819.0:   17  7.00   119.0:    3 3I.SC   -A.5:                              0.0:    7  9.40   65.8.   205 16.74   3.45:
Pmduaiteinme.:    5  2.40    13.0:                     0.0:    28.40    16.8:                    0.0:                 0.0:                 0.0:                 0.0:                 0.0       7  426   0.03.
7.8IM&L                            4066.0 :1447.9 :7343.8 :                                        533.7 :1893.7 :1856.5 :3296.7 :                                                    3404 .22 95
M1M -3FMR88EVULjC.
L.at.lMAxt. canassi     Mo  :6164    2.50  4,110.0: 632  2.10 158.0: 1213  2.50  3032.5:  224.  2.50   560.0:  506  2.50  1265.0  562  2.50  1405.0:  781  2.50  1952.5:  470  21   1115.IS0 :  032  2.50  15.08
Lat IS..,iAt. drains    km  M:107 10.00 15070.0 :  02  10.00 502.0O   713 10.00  7150.0: 329 10.00  329. 0 :4.69 10.00 469. 0    518  10.00 5160.0    M 2  10.00  726.0   448 10.00 44600 :  21.2 10.00  32.12
F..Id dLtchw,ldrl.ags   ha4 :43730   0.3 13119.0 :19340   0.3 5608.0 :43330   0.3 12999.0 :13760   0.3 4128.0 :17600   0.3 528. 0:24870   0.3  7461.0 :20870   0.3 8641.0 :14670   0.3 5601.0 .230150   0.30 43.06
St " t, m Smos. : 4042  2.50 10105.0 : 227   1.80  4116.6 ; 2070  1. 90  3933.0 : 14,47  1.80  2604.6 : 2501  1.70  4251.7 : 3487   1.150  5230.5 : 4601  1. 50  901. 5 ; 248   1.30) 3732.0 : 2292    1.76 40827
L-asc WaLitingmoohn: he  :3000   0.10  3000.0 :I00   0.10  1200.0 :30W00   0.10 300.0 :loooo   0.10  iooo.o :12000   0.10  1200. 0:20000  0.10  2000.0 :20000  0.10  2000.  .13000  0.10 3100.0 :147000  0.10 147U
Wa ..LI&t ra&in.aalls. ma. :220  9.90 2378.0:t                    0.0:118    7.10 8910.0:                   0.0:                 0.0:  302  1.70 23254:  391  7.80  3049.8.  100   S. 70  570.0: 2201   7 74  17~05          0
~A, sz r    pie7kdraim: ba  :37 23.60   880.6:  280  7.8D2212.0:  140  14.20 2272.0:                        0.0:  176  9.00  1384.0:  130   3.60D  494.0:   37  7.80  2M.4    50  S.460  430 0.  80   9.3   0 16 
0*11241       :                   4844.6 :19936.6 :41276.5 :                                     1582.6                IW182707 :24095.9 :30113.4                                     I JSAN. 0 :          21 03    IJa 
704728 S            31297.7 .            64615.5 :147                               27363.5 :3671                             45442.0 .            27k):333



_Ats Istimte  nets fw Hadd1mq, ,       d42 m ad NtAdas
RAIM nA                           ttL  MZUY      WOOLga  QMP 34Mlat   LfmLedra M Z M  3idi          b     Is                a
Ut2              A    t    U Fi  -    L. ps    i  U. _et   A            25
CwAtr., 0 & N mitn.y.p & equip.                                      ()   *  er1.)
2                                                  430.00       mo-o~~~~~~~~~~~2   
Xulu    tr   1.2-1.5 m3 lr 0ys                 .    a                  8 st50.00   6300.0                        :.
aio b ~                 ae, 0.61 -           no. 5           30  t     370.00  11100.0
hs11lez  120D Na          '                  ao.    :         4  .       0.00      122.0                             -                   s              2
wD  U  Llldo  1M5 Iw                   3D.    :         'a        370.00     230.0                                                 :
1.Sl =                          D'    2         2          f5.00      190.0
0miinp rp~ iqlr  ~Szu              ID.     2        1  2                             p25.00       MO. :0
ftEbLcpat           t                        m.    :          1  :                                                                       2 o
teel              1I0.                                                                                                  la 2 :.5    3.0
Itmi br             '                        V.               1  2                                                      10.0       10.0
iJdat     e                                 I.               522.5                                                                12.5
Vu-siM plinr. UMC~U~Dno.    *                                 1  :                                                      1.0        10.0
9tra1~ s   tma0                                                 2210 2                      53.0                  304.0 .20 2-
plamirninhizu  ~~~~~~~~~~        IrD.             I  a                                                       2.0        2D02
h*tIOdUZ3ZUUn o:.                                            21                                                         6 .0      1810.0
Iress. Fd tl_, it~                 ID.    .         1 2  .0.0                                                             300
SnAP                                                         5                                                           2.0:      100
Sub-tntal                                                       2 2 : 70.                 925.0                  3040    6523.40
$Sbed 1,1.5-2.r 60 t, 282                    .o               1        107 .00      107.0
trak, 10,000-1iters                     am.              2         M:800       162.0
9q,elxlsexyioe tmz~k       ID.              2   *      30.00      260.0
no.    :        1          45 : 00    4:95.
5 .m).         13          50 300     650.0
Fllm pr,1                                    IDo.            20                                   10       200.0
TwThcslb p1,1.5-2.0 tams                     ni.             10         2 00        260.
Fiald                 go )m.                                 8          35 00       220.0
Va, 1A :.                                                    2          50 .0       100.0
Sub-total                                                        2314.0                  25.0                                   2.51
Project O:f                                                      2:s                                                                      0:
1yIz81ku                                      D. xt          7                                 12.00        84.0 g
no:             6                                 3 0.00      180.0
Coauza                                       a               2                                                           4.0        0.
TeaIml for ~~~~~~~*er             am~~n           1                                                         15.0        I 50
Sli    ret                                   am      :       2                                                          2.0        1.0
Film      10.01                              am              2                                                          2.0         4.0
FzmJIshJQaJmse typwritD                                       1                                                          4.5 ::5
LS add p aot-.    =-tota    Xt    .         1  .       4960      400.0                   264.0                    35.5          0.30
SO aL  a'ie rm                                                        ::9
A510Y     1 "d-"                             no ,                                                                        3
;6      .                       ' qx  *be 1mostur Sme  set   3                                                         37.0       111 0
SoIl.p;=Usai  mdf  mersat                   sMt              1                                                         56.0        56.0
L        S                                   salintt         2                                                           3.7        7:4
nrozatet                                                                                                            26. *   .001626.  .0  .   01       
Partile aim distrib ut,   :P rat.0s Mt                      2.
M11L-IDUZ1S iZ25tZ2w                         sOt             1                                                          31.0       3110
Soil. water  sicmwter                        set             1                                                          15.0       15.0
mae                       ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~sat  . 1  .10.0                                                           10.0
soilsnfr                                     sat            20                                                          0.1         2.0
Fa  MP, Mmst                                               5                                                          0.0         0.2
Ioisture h1UIdz cqapclty qapezmae            st              2                                                          26.0       52.0
water quaaity I -tan                         set             3                                                          3.5        10.5
Automatic Level                              ID)             2                                                           5.0       10.0                                             C
vlectamc sal  (0.01-i an  Medkw             rID              2                                                         30.0        60.0
Sub-total                                         ~~~~~~~~0.0             0.0                  481.9           0.49 
12caumlVW =ts             stam  1zmlaa us
moile and pxotablo sets ad acceseories.      set             14900                 4900.0                    0.0                    0.0           4.90                           1
Pints control systmmWtaPm.O=te qaeCMtiaa:
5-tam (89 sets). 10-tam (116 sets)
>10-tam (13 sets) Inel'ArMk wirIxw, cmtzoks
ad  ccessories.                            SMm                         3160      3160.0                    0.0                    0.0           3.16
Pinot. -wn    systm for soil sai0Y
water mxitoc?ng at 13 xtetli,  zmsja.M
all mqaorL% equiana and so1 rV a             mm              10.0                                163       163.0                    0.0           0.18
Theodolit.                                   no.    2        8                                  18.0       144.0 



-~~ ~ ~ ~   ~ -                                                      ZW -
awn
bin: Eutmtd Owat s  ltdzy,    :             an :tdas
t U.    s                U. PNIa          1    U. Pric     A.Pd:
m2'14  b      IC                          110. o          8  *                              15.0      120.0                        : 
1bt  ll                                     :             36 :                               5.0       110.0                        :
68    _iz             m IIM. :                            36  2                              6.0       216.0
_'htar inar1z~ d1n6S~ stamls           saM.         216                                 2.2      475.2
Other     . 1nthmts                        OW:         1     :                               20.0       20.0                        :
! 1otl                         :          :0.0                                    1155.2                     0          1.16
*iazl&wsJ t4 , t2tI    ats_tU              nt    :          S:                                                     60.0      300.0 
JI.s1tutm  u.1n1 m y m   td               gm       1       .                          : S.0                                 500.0
lr.p At piutactiux gq'ipi.                 g. I :                                                                 2.10.0     120.0
am     2       2l t                                                   140.0      140.0
OR             L                       :                              410.0      410.0
11a                                                      :                                                   20:0       20.0  2
9b-total                          2          2                    0.0                   0.0                1490.0          1.49
E.ctrkal eft:                                        :                                                                               2
TSo                                        no.      :      9 :       50.00      450.0
Sd.aslax cdtar ts                                        800 :        3.80     3040.0
ISutd ss                                   2.    2        23                                                       8.00      184.0
Ialtoms                                    n.o         23100  :                                                    0.01      231.0
canoc poles                                 no.         6200                                                       0.2      1240.0  :
AUAWL g       i             Pm                     :       I :                                                   600.00      600.0
tw*tota.                                                       3490.0                   0.0                2Z55.0          5.75
aMIMD2'  t :                                         :          :                                                                    :             :
Dintam     wpi   c/v astor.                 Mt           243          2.60      631.8
subsible. a. c/v mors                set    :    212:           0.65     1383.2
Tronam s                                   no.    :      250  2       2.50      625.0
L.T. 4I t        b                          .           1000          2.10     2100.0
Sb-total                                                        740.0                   0.0                   0.0  .       4.74
= M*/LLftU-4                               Mt    ;    8983           0.23     2066.1                                              ;'
CtUM   (Cast ix, steel am)                  Mt          8983  *       0.86     7725.4                                                     .         *                          '
Sb-totaL                                                       9791.5                   0.0                   0.0  :       9.79 :
M t J:                                               . s::
Caut2n/ibm. /b
Ce    .                                    tcn        105000          0.19    19950.0
Steel pnO: ts                      20   2                             1.03    22866.0
I   6 pole                                 m3           4200  :       0.28     U176.0
S2'' ir3                                                     13400:   0.45     6030.0
tAotal*                                                      50022.0                    0.0                   0.0         50.02
4d     l:                                            :          :                                                                    ::
FtiLimsr                                   ta      :   20000          0.74    14800.0
nc re vaterial  for plastic  b_ets         ta n         2750 :        2.70     7425.0
Sub-total                                                                               0.0         0         0.0    2   22.23
TotS        Caa t                    .          * s.5                                   2707.2                4572.4        130.09
W2'__:  :                          33192.6                 731.7                 125.8  :      35.16
/a: pazlu  dqaips blused a tn us bid p;tats.                                                                                                                      - 
lb: ant of iddi axe kmlidW in thm xl.t rates foc tim respctivw cLva woi itwa.                                            V 
Ita: Tm itm a1d t)lz qmt4tSas *     shA   w b   awcly estimts awd  ill be finalzed prior to pro_um.                                                                   X
0
Ha
O4



- 62 -
Annex 2
Tabl  7
MOTM8   IXATIOI PROJECT
YTian: Cost S umary
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------
It _               Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign    Total        P.R.
------(Y Tmillon) ------   ------ (US million)----       (t)
-__---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Civil Works:
GubaL                         7.9      7.9    15.8       2.1      2.1      4.3       50
TonaxLn                       9.8      9.8    19.6       2.6      2.6      5.3       50
Langpiziliang                 5.5      5.5    10.9       1.5      1.5      2.9       50
JLnyJntan                     5.1      5.1    10.1       1.4      1.4      2.7       50
Subtotal              28.2    28.2    56.4        7.6      7.6    15.2        50
On-farm Der0lopmnt:
Ouhal                        26.9    17.9    44.8        7.3      4.8    12.1        40
Tongxin                      14.3      9.5    23.8       3.9      2.6      6.4       40
LangpLiLlang                  8.4      5.6    14.0       2.3      1.5      3.8       40
Jinyintan                    12.1      8.1    20.2       3.3      2.2      5.5       40
subtotal              61.7    41.1   102 8       16.7    11.1    27.8         40
Electrification                 2.4      5.6      8.0      0.6      1.5      2.2       70
Rasettlemont  /a               29.5    29.5    59.0        8.0      8.0    15.9        50
Machinery L equLpmcnt           0.0    15.0    15.0        0.0      4.1      4.1      100
Training and Tech. Assist.      1.8      1.8      3.5      0.5      0.5      0.9       50
agBineorlnglManagement          6.6      0.7      7.3      1.8      0.2      2.0       10
YinbeL Studies                  7.0      3.0       10      1.9      0.8      2.7       30
Base Cost                  137.1   124.9   262.0    37.1    33.8    70.8            48
Physioal contingencies       5.9      5.4    11.3       1.6      1.5      3.1
Price contlngencLs         18.1    27.1    45.2        1.2      1.8      3.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST         161.1   157.4   318.6    39.9    37.0    76.8            48
/as Includes relocation cost, housing and  agricultural materials and equipmnt,
infrstructures and social facilLties. Detailed estLiates Ln Annex 2 Table 11.



- 63 -
Annex 2
Table 8
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Yinnan: Expenditure Schedule
(Y mLIlLon)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__
ltem               1988     1989      1990     1991     1992   Total
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__
Civil vorks
Guhai                        2.6      3.4      4.0      3.0       2.8     15.8
Tongxin                               3.0      5.0      5.8       5.8     19.6
LangpizilLang                1.5      2.5      3.0      3.0       0.9     10.9
Jinyinten                    1.5      2.0      2.5      2.5       1.6     10.1
Subtotal              5.6     11.0      14.5     14.3     11.1      56.4
On-farm Development           15.5     18.7     25.3     23.3      20.0    102.8
Electification                 1.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       1.0      8.0
Resettlement                   3.3     16.8     17.3     16.5       5.2     59.1
Machinery & equipment          2.0      6.0      5.0      2.0       0.0     15.0
Engineering/Managament         0.6      2.0      2.0      2.0       0.5      7.1
Training & Tech. Assist.       0.5      1.0      1.0      1.0       0.0      3.5
Yinbei studies                 1.0      2.0      3.0      3.0       1.0     10.0
Bease Cost           29.5      59.5     70.1     64.1     38.8    261.9
Physical contingenc es        1.3      2.4      3.0      2.8       1.9     11.3
I'rice contingencies       U.9       6.2     12.4     14.7      11.0     45.2
TOTAL PROJECT uOoT        31.6      68.1     85.5     81.6     51.6    318.4
_________________         ----     ----     ----     ----      -- -_--



- 64 -
Annex 2
Table 9
CHINA
NORTHER  IIRGATION PROJECT
Yinnans Expected Price Increases
Item                  1988      1989      1990     1991      1992   Total
Sase Cost (Y m1n.)                  29.5      59.5      70.1     64.1      38.8    261.9
Physical ccntinsency                 1.3       2.4       3.0      2.8       1.9      11.3
Annual escalation rate              6.5X      6.31      6.5X      4.52     4.52
Price cont. multiplier              0.03       0.1      0.17      0.22     0.27
Expeted price lncreases              0.9       6.2      12.4     14.7      11.0      45.2
Total project cost (Y mln.)        31.6      68.1      85.5     81.6      51.6    318.4
Base Cost (USS m)                    8.0      16.1      18.9      17.3     10.5    ;#u.8
Physical contLngency                 0.3       0.7       0.8       0.8      0.5       3.1
Annual escalation rate              1.02      1.02      1.02      3.52     3.5X
Price cont. multiplLer             0.005    0.015    0.025    0.061    0.098
Expected price increases             0.0       0.3       0.5       1.1      1.1       3.0
Total project cost (USS mln.)       8.3      17.0      20.2     19.2      12.1      76.8



YThu: CGeat Estimaa fcw Civil and O-fam W=ks
Ztaa            UnIit  a          Qisi                     Tuwln           a        LmLLliw          :                         :           Otal
aQay.    U.P.    Am.  aQty.    U.P.    hAm.  :Qty.    U.P.    hAm.  :Qty.    i.P.    hAm.  :Qtr.    0.P.    hAm.
bzutlmik awavat1*c   :a                   -(T000)-:                 -(Y'000)-t                -(YIOO0)-:                -(Y'0 0)-:                (Y'000) aY nil):
)bla col             a  d0O         700     8.7  6090.0:   91.3       6.5   593.5:t  459.5        4  283.0                        0.0 :  25.8    6.81       8.5
su3c mini            :  AL..       30.6    3.48   106.5 :  83.7    6.23  5007.1         am80      4  3212.0       260       6  1560.0   189.3    5.21.    9.9 
mbnain Uml                                           0.0:                     0.0:                       0.0:    365        3  109.0:  365.0    3.00        1.1 :
3rochdmn                       a                     0.0:                      0.0:                      0.0:    850        3  2550.0:  850.0    3.00       2.6 :
.z1O.
owet. lbinh            a a.s. a18.66          174  3246.8      15.5     190  2945.0      1-3.7    191  2616.7 a 66.6         47  3130.2 a114.5  104.30    11.9
Ptnpizasatatimas          nom.  a       4     650  2600.0 :       3    2850  8550.0 :      2    1320  2640.0 :0.0 a                          9.0 153. 72   l13.8
Structs: 
nu~a,aa~   a                         16     167  2672.0:       14    62.5   875.0:        0       0     0.0:       47      16   752.0:   77.0   55.83       4.3:
PA" bcidp                9      2       11    22.0:       0       0      0.0:       3       8    24.0:       49       16   784.0:   54.0   15.37       0.8:
Tractor bridbe       :        ; a    U     26.4   290.4:       23     7.7   177.1:       75     4.5   337.5:       24       7   168.0:  133.0    7.32       1.0:
OALwert                  no~.   a    26    27.7   72D.2:       1.3     30   390.0:        0       0     0.0:       10      10   100.0    49.0   24.70       1.2:
Cat"a                                 0       0      0.0:      10    14.5   145.0:       38       6   228.0:        1      45    45.0:
OffrAka:                             11     6.5    71.5:        6      91   546.0:        9     4.5    40.5:        0       0     0.0:
DLcp                       ~ ~~~~0  0      0.0:      42       9   378.0:        5      4.5    22.5:       4    12.6    50.4:
Eomtr2.              :                0       0     0.0:        0       0     0.0:       0        0     0.0:       9    15.6   140.4:
Sabtotal  :   a                 ~~~~~1.5819.4:            19606.6:                  10959.2:                  10139.2:                     55.1:
Qn-iam Dav1alq t:      a
Lat.J1ab1.at. ewls    a aOQO  s   187       2.6  4864.6 :    383      2.4   919.2 .   2700      2.5  6750.0 : 3835        2.6  9971.0   SM78.0    2.56    22.5:
lat. IS61st. drairgs    : aa.M. a                   0.0 :                     0.0:I                      0.0:      0        0     0.0:    0.0        M      0.0:
C1A llnzsa                        131.3     160 21008.0 :      42     172  7224.0 :   21.5      170  2955.0 : 10.5        150  1575.0 :195.3  162.63    31.8
stzaiwe              :    .        9240     0.5  462.0 :   2725       2.7  7357.5 a   289       0.5  1445.0 : 3030    0.85  2575.5 :1785.0    0.89    16.0
Aces" zmul               km a    700        2.8  1960.0 :    173    4.95   856.4 %    144       4.5   648.0 :     270       2   540.0 a128.0    3.U1        4.0 
FWeA 1avs1ll             he Ia    17600     0.7 1 22.0 :   8310       0.9  7479.0 a   3800    0.85  3230.0 :    550       0.3   465.0 a3126.0    0.75    23.5 
FLdxppe4                 ha be                                                                                    1  87    27.2  5066.4 :5.1 
Uatntal   a   a                ~~~~~~44772.6 a             33.1 :14M.0                                        20212.9 :                    02.8
U*octrlLlmat4ma        :
110 Mr ins           a 0  sa                         0.0:      5       80   400.0:                      0.0:                               5.0   30.0       0.4 :
SbIFLiann             ba ha         is       40   720.0:      17       40   680.0 :      9       40   360.0:                          .    4.    40.00      1.3:
6blW u               :hm  a    ;    21       25  525.0:        9       28   252.0:      11       30  330.0:                               41.0   27.00      1.1 :
ihutatlin                m           2      300   600.0:       3    133   399.0:         1      100   100.0:                               6.0  7M.17       4.7 
*ita*al.       a        a284.0:                                      5331.0:                    79.0:                                                  .0:
a  a                4~~~~~~2437.0 a4877.7 :2577.2:                                                30352.1 a                   16.9:          
I  I        --a                       - a                        -a                       -a                               :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



cHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
innan: Cost Estimates for Rasetlement
Item                              Unit    Rate  Quantity Amount            Estimated F. E.
(Yuen)           (Y gln.)   (1)    (YM)   (USSM)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-------------------
Relocation:                                  (Yuan)
Transport                         Person        50
Houi ng                           Person       200
Subtotal              Person        250   54150      13.5       20      2.7      0.7
Farm Inputs a Machinery:
Production Inputs                 Person       100   54150       5.4       20      1.1      0.3
Machinery and equip.              family      2000    11000     22.0       90    19.8       5.4
Electricity & Water Supply:
Water Supply                      Person        50    54150      2.7       20      0.5      0.1                                                  I
Rural electrification la            km       22330      150      3.3       50      1.7      0.5                                                  0%
0%
Social Services & Facilities:                                                                                                                      I
Administrative buildings;
Township                         no.       40000        3      0.1
Village centers                   no.      12000       26      0.3
Health centers/clinecs:
Township                         no.      180000        3      0.5
Village centers                   no.      15000       26      0.4
Schools:
Secondary                        no.      400000        3      1.2
Primary                          no.      100000       30      3.0
Cultural centers                   no.      200000        3      0.6
Agri-tech. extension centers        no.      80000        3      0.2
Animal husbandry station            no.      25000        3      0.1
Shops/rqral enterprises:
Township                         no.    800000          3      2.4
Village centers                  no.    120000         26      3.1
Subtotal                                            12.0       30       3.6     1.0
Total Base Cost                                        59.0       50    29.4        7.9
la: including 189 sets of transformers.



1"4
0
01s _00                                         01? e000                                                           0001? o  .g6                          lsBin op 90                    tp
S. P                 ,00                                .sa           '0 a'c O                                                           ,                                  .                        i
("* .                                                                z        oez                                                  .                                           mt .S  .    
0-*                                           000        00I1
80  1        0000 9       0smTl
O'f        OZI                                                                                      i ,  aIzi , W
t                     s            :                                                                   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~O9  Ii                    _wased wzl ca
c09      o09ot                                                     1
U'8   ' SC I                     U'{        ' ~~~~0-0               0-                     -S1't
~~~~~~~~~ot   3 u                                                                                                                              Iiu     ulIe  ew
01K        0
901  000                                                      001                                               o                                                 e!  U s 1 jUo 00 o
91    cOsN        Wat                            c                                                                   p      -      qw
9? tz      *ls                                                                   :a u 
O's1K     O's                                                      t             5'                                   94rq
*  9~~~~~~  111                                     1             5'~ ~ ~~31~~W"
*          01K~~~O'   09T                                                      5              *1h1O SZ11p~
OlS       90                                                    3 6               aU      Zdtain5daain
olot  0        01K0?                                       '0               so
vs                                                                            33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  :~C s  I              91    3      5'1                        m    S
'0                                                     a,       ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogo  aU'  ~ Wl
10' T  0010      WI           C'S"                  9,669                                                                                    pn~~~~~~~~~39-~r~   IT
001o      00111                                                  :1ttm    I3001                                      j JU
03o       090                                                                    au
3  3                                             3                                                3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in -W. m5'
IL?  000                      3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  3~~- 00            00                   aals!co
3 110  0391  095   3                                                                                '1 ~~~~~~~~~ 120WI"  - 
St                                                                                                   ONTS~~li  61 30  1'P1
00: &  O'  ~         ~          000?       OW9
0 St  oll~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  (I0PS3m)pp
9t0  031?  0311                  3~~~~~~~~01              0                                            1               '                        US1 *Z
010       0:001                                                                                                                                                          MOT"   '    10I5~0~
a OK06          0109                                                                                         19              5'ai'p Sua  v'i.p
0009c     00r            9      :     5'u-Tp  StI11 'MA
3                                    09111      0*03          9             5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   :4  U 0     91 PIqla    31iin3
-- ;---                                                                    3         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------
'~  U~1~d 0         ~                 WId 0 ,~DIE~            11d      3EOL      5'lJd 
ST a  *,on                                                                                   t             au     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -.aDJ MLUWt
0S'    100 Lm,p  0J00 :wjpuii  aq
mwi wu9azwx ~~~~~~~CU=M= 
Wloin O'                            a.



-- ------ -- -- -- -----
Yiam: FstSmtud Cost for Pbddznq. Iqdt ad Ibtsl*1
____________________ ____t _t                                     -__---- --------                        ------_____c :A _d___--               Total
Itaii                    Unit           t t bit'    . U                                               to __ ___ _ ___ _ ___ TOW   ____ ____                   __ ad
:   U. WL""". A.'4   'Uprion"  . FCL ------ llow.tPrice    Allure                        Tota         omat le
AlIaultt :=w=           tov                                                                            
rute   s lo           attadgt              set          3500           4.0    22800.0
Ape-tab te.aUtUiaelt   69*iLtp             amm                                                                      50.0       30.0
vemigtt O*dP=                                                                                                       20.0       20.0
Sub-tta                                                        2200.0                                         70.0         22.87                                 0.08         22.07
?z_aiam                                     m.             23          67.5     1552.5
Th.a"1  GAitM                               u4 430                      4.0  1720.0
tm~~~p1atea         o.12                                                                                                           1301
5.b-t@ttl                                                       272                      0.070.38
O* twiw  butt   1- -Lt                      no             16                                                                        *'                    5f.e       8          e3
AauIzu           t '0 5                                                                                                                                    15.0       7so.o       0.75
Sub-total                    3M.5                     0.0                   0.0          3.27                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.  080  .00.1
=0* oodptl sm se                                                                                                         5n
= *fte       v Ibt                         p elw          _t 52                                                                                                     3.1    0.532
b-total                                                             0                      0                     0          0.e                                 118            1.1 i
tutm      n: : lb
ejttnt b                                               110 .e                                                                                               0.1    leao.0       1U.52
Stmi n1n    ;                                                            '108:: 1.5  6.0.8
S.   = o",                                    MOO 3                                                                       .0.5                           4000.0       4.08
A-total                                                        443.o                     0.0                   8.0          4.65                               28.52         25.17
3WtIkIm                                     eat    I   10008  s         0.7     7408.8
PC  _       1*2f_tte   _Pui1   iin         tU:           2008           2.7     5400.8
ab-tatai                   i3o0.g                     0.0                   0.0         12.00                                0.0o         12.0e
mm  IM       !300.                                                                       63.0                  12.9           52.2                                24.8772
ex~~~~~~~M '?7                                                                                                              a ,s8 5m       522g2         n 
---- -  -- - -------- - - - -------- -- -- -__-- -- -- -- -- -- -- .- - -- -- - - -......- -- -- -_- -- -- -- -- - ---- -- -- -- - - _
Ipb   _M    *d  bt,^Wl . t_ s btid   I .                    t 
Ic, part of th eatC    = eS foe .teitw                           t
fte: So  >   Ite, ad K_ig _ ntits.w a,         y uicative ad witl be fimliwd at tim  of p_m.Oit
0
FoX
O



CHINA
NORTHERN IRRZATIZO PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IJRDAID                       Disburaement                        DLabursa  nt                            Disbursment                   DLsbutre mnt Profile /a
Fiscal   Year       ----------------      ---      --   ---------- -----------------------      ---------------------------------       ---  ----- ---- ---- ---
end S mster        S8mestral  Cumlative  Cu,ulative   Semestral  Cumulative  Cumulative        Semestral  Cu aultive  Cu olative          Year      Cul1ative
----(US$ million)----      (2)      ----(US$ m*illon)----      (2)          ----(US$ milLon)----       (2)           Semester        (2)
<--------------ETAO------------>   < --------------YINNAN------------>    <------ TOTAL PROJECT ------------>
1989                                                                                                                                  Year 1
lst               0.6         0.6           1         1.0         1.0           3             1.6         1.6           2               lst           0
2nd               2.0         2.6           4         1.6         2.6           7             3.6         5.2           5               2nd          12
1990                                                                                                                                  Year 2
lst               4.8         7.A          11         3.9         6.5          18             8.7        13.9         13                Ist         25
2nd               5.6        13.0          20         4.5        11.0          30            10.1        24.0          23               2nd          38
1991                                                                                                                                 Year 3
Ist               6.3        19.3          29         5.8        16.8          45            12.1        36.1         35                1st          50
2nd               8.4        27.7          42         5.8        22.6          61            14.2        50.3          49               2nd          63
1992                                                                                                                                 Year 4
lst               7.5        35.2          53         4.6       27.2           74            12.2        62.4         61                1st         73 '0
2nd               8.6        43.8          66        5.1         32.3          87            13.7        76.1          74               2nd         80
1993                                                                                                                                 Year S
lst               7.0        50.8          77        2.4         34.7          94             9.4        85.5         83                lst         87
2nd               7.6        58.4          88        2.3         37.0         100             9.9        95.4         93               2nd           92
1994                                                                                                                                 Year 6
Ist               3.4        61.8          94                                                 3.4       98.8           96              1st          95
2nd               3.0        64.8          98                                                 3.0       101.8          99              2nd           98
1995                                                                                                                                 Year 7
lit               1.2        66.0         100                                                 1.2      103.0         100                lst        100
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----------------------------------------------_------_--------------__------__---
Co letion date: _             December 31, 1994                  December 31, 1992                       December 31, 1994
ClosLng date-                                                                                             December 31, 1995
1-: Disburseamnt profile for 11 agricultural projects in China analyzed by CODMD                                 *



MEOW MrATICE PFMIJ
------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -- - ---------  - -- -          - - -                 -------- -       ----------- -          --- -  -- - --------------
_______                                MtacBoqamt:  Tesnz ad Teulal AsfstE
i~sclptl                                 sTotal                                    asIin of m-kt
Dascr4ytL=l                  TOW  mon-         ew~cot                     by calanda  Year                    Prqposd content aid loestimi
mmiths            (US000)
i9S     19S9     1990     1991     199
O,ersaa, Tru1n1z
A. Study tours
1. Rgonul        Ai ric. Bra  staffIs        14                91        5        5        iDeslem of a-fam  vmuks, mai salwy:;= ine, ard
2. Rag1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~ ~Lrriatimi and draing t                                                               nt-               lpna   A
2. ReLarL Wtr  Remm
Design lust. staff /b                     14                91        7        7                                     W       e       
struturs, drainad si-e protection-U.S.,
MeLOn.
3. Ba Lasm W1M staff                          9                59        5        4                                     Irriation an  drs a s           pt. I- ectL
4. BeiaL aidaamit--sp. .Imest
tackimcal mid     g t staff               13                85        7        6                                     tc,!r   (utin    al         p)oll scnc      p,
staff                                    34               221        8        8        8        6        4          Pctr        be     c    mtorng 1. trvlunts-
Subtotal                                  84               546       32       30       12        6        4
B. Advned (4-12 n) training 
for WR.   staff                              35               140       20       15                                     CaostrutLcn argm-rbig, Irrigation   ww        .
CustIaU SeiYeS
A. Water .A solL iuhro,nt                        4                52        2        2                                     U.S., CKuda, W. GCy, P          .dStA, TuCkGy.
B. 1IC bid doawnt prtw*tLcn                     10               130        6        4
Subtosl                                      14               182        8        6
Subtotla oversaw Trainin & 
CAiltlu  Sevie                  133               868       60       51       12        6        4
local Trdn
A. Ibh d'qlsunlrmrs for ruseil,
1iS1U  35a  cuty.M                           90                15       30       30       30                            TrsiuIr  in pmj.  i          , fin  ad tzia
J.    1s-tm  training for In staff            4Q                  650      am      8am       800      800      800             ar pn_  t the lld lol rolLge
of Agr   tum      AuL-l Busbuida, LLriw Water
C. Short-tem  training for hld  of
water Uers,' am                             500                65      100      100      100      100      100          Sowa1l ows1at tlHai               lric. & M College,
D. Short-tem training for Neis aoIL
md 3. LAm   ler reszuces %zuaa.dc
staff                                       27                  9        9        9        9                                14uth-lm c amzse  In salinity cantol soil
I~~w,ad  edqoit WM at the i t ad  e
E. Umnt-taum training for staff of
1.005 tPSnin  tamia.                       500                 82      100      100      100     100       10          Trainlr In slinity omtrL mid I ragtian 9 driain
F. TednusaL tlrd  for f*=wn   &                                                                                             t.chnins--Lh        o  Agrlc. &M  CLlleg
hI.din                                    42O0                400     840      800       400    8400      8400                                         for a-  fas  In
cuttLvatlcn   . fodmalatiomi. meLe Ibumculatlmt-
C. 3Srt-tam  trainn  for sgrlcule-                                                                                          at ta.mip e2tUUIstatl..
h_lul  bwdry cares                          33                 22       9        6        6        6        6          1-5 day training inwses at the couty agro-tedualcal
SubtotaL                                 471.2               1243    9348    9445    9445    9306    9406                                                                                   -  :
Total                         47256              2111     9408    9496    9457    9312    9410                                                                                  fll
I- S
____                                            __________                        ____                  _ __ _                _________ _                    _                tI 
12 TM  pOCN _           ft  tiA  UM's CEMtnMtl, plamim  ad maaltune dqm_rnts, to at 1aw", ad six fro tlw fI bouz  h ma.
lb TM cr thr_e fra  the follwin _artts: inotztmtlIa, slle, irrlptgicn, draiza., ad erosLan prevtlo.n



yTIzMmi_M-:__Yminiznad_Tedutcakl_Msi.stme                                      ____   ___
TotalITOW                      "alahe                                ft'    I cantad locati'mi
tlu-  ( 000)            ---                -yWW
____    is"_    1990    1991    1992
1.'~IsenLOI?   war                14       92        7        7                                    DIinaof arid zesi... lift pimpi tSW, c@ocdimtad
2. : =stricatuni                                                         ~~~~~~plmmlw for wtr zecrsadalriLdtu-U.S., Mloo.
2. Smla asrlcultaj
10      84        3        5                                    Dm1:t of xaalL-seals, famiy fand-Om,ay.  Pblid
3.  U  tsdugclm                    10      84                 5        5                           Draldag  tedIdlqm- Pakistan. T-&w.
'. SoU tsdmlans,W0
==WV=                          14       92                7        7                           Project  .a        wd soil salinity owtrllqsruvt
5. mane                             8      52        4        A                                    Irzjatl  q tmn systm          mg-. telmterja  eqant.
3. a      nt-tena (4-6  s
tmlhIu cws                       60      210      12       12       12       22      12          No.          a     tedmiqLis--U.S., 1. Gen , ComWa
Sbtotal                        116      614      28       40       24       12      12
Camilti   Sevicesla
A. Ovrsa ansdt: its
aurs, q           _ueia            2       25       2                                             Sail  _vovmnit, project __it, ttstdi  t                                          I
11.   I  o dt                         80      25       20       20       20       20                         /aedvisory servLca vv1%ided by _         of other iJ-a1m zwk projects
inUzrners Iram vi           d a*sd N1sl.
SeMotol                         82      50       22       20       20      20        0
dca Tra1h
A. Cast, O   staff ad temhpl 
vUL*l_ 'wtar    ns               120       81        0                       80300                    o 3e 300  naLsdol (NItke %la r        r
oM="s in qevatian ad rnix of Wmps, miztamu  of
1.   M Staff ad CtrLure, mIur maazraAnt et.
tadmicl.nu                      1200     108        0      200      4w0     400      200          pot-saomlazy  Lw-tm  tra1nizg in  tar
e i   uarz  A ssrlmldUnal tediuolo
C. r        tra1n.a                  2500     200      500      500      500     500      500         T*-k mwea   in a*ltivatien p tactis irrlastlc  teduiqs. d
busise  ad escounti--to assist In shit frca drylad to Lrrigated
D.  7k r tedmJ.ciul{ui ers            20       76       50       50       50      50                   El-teechical trainin. caxurs within ad ou*side Nitsal
SWtotal                         5100     465    51        1050    1250    1250    1000
Total                           529 8   1129      550    1110    12         282    1012
Iabmlids ommulting services for the Ylnbei. stul  (A.e  2, Table 16).
I __ __
1^--                                                                                                                               g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Table 16
CHINA
NOKTHI IrAZSATION PHOJET
Ylnnans Cost Eatlutss and Expenditure ScheduLe foa Y1nbul Studies
-         Cost  Estimtes --I    Expendi tun re 
Itm_              LocaL   FOreign   TotaL   S F.E. S         tm     1ow      1360     1n       13 
----Y  miLionl       i-       MI                       (Y eLm.) 
hUinmfl_g _urveyi 
4 _min aonsto 538.7 km                                           S
7 bromIh conato 270.5 km                                         I
6 min dren  5 234 km
6 branch drains m1.5 km                                          ,
Itratures                                                                                                        
Swb-totaL               0.7       0.0     0.7        0  a      0.2      0.4      0.1 i
HydroegotLaglcL Surveys
& Data ColectIon                  1.2      0.0      1.2        0  *      0.2       0.4     0.6 '
SoiL r,veys                       0.4       0.0     0.4        0  3      0.2      0.2                             3
P1 let Arom  Cons tructlani 
b_ua_n 305 he                                                    I 
Waxuis 257 he                                                     S 
Lihe ISO he                                                      a                                               a
Sub-total               3.3       0.0      3.3       0                            1.3    2.0           S
Equlpmmntlnetreantsa A Not.       0.4      1.0      1.4       71  a      0.4      0.3      0.5                    3
Conaultenoy Services                                               a                                              a
1S0 _mn-months)                   1.0      2..0       0       07                  0.5      0.5      1.0      1.0 
Total Bae Cost             7.0      8.0    10.0        30 s       1.0       2.0     3.0      3.0      1.0  5
=         _                -   a        -                                      
3



73 -                                Annex 2
CHINA                            Tabl* 17
UOTUM IUXGAT!OU FROJCT
Noteos Cost Estimates for Agricultureal Coepoment
______________________________________________-_-_-------____________________________________________--
It"                                  Unit    Rate  Quantity  Amount             atLaeted W. 5.
(Yuan)            (Y000)    (2)    (YOOO) (US$'OO0)
-------------__--------------------__-------_--__-------------_______________________________________-
SulIdias
-------_--
as Leagu Cah Crop 3.e amch Sta.           *2      200      1500      300
Sod atore mnd dryin  yards                a2      233      3000      699
Townshlp Agro-tech Eat. Centers           E2      200      8100     1620
Crop protection offLeLa                   .2      200      2500      500
She" and p<e for dairy  4va la            *2      171    10000      1710
Subtotal                                              4829        30     1449      392
Machinery & Equipment lb
____________________
Seed station *qulp_mnt                   set      su1         1      300
Agrcultural iuplmnts                     aot       sum        1      500
Crop protection equipocnt                aet       sum        1      120
Caeh Crop RlStatlon equipment            set       sum        1      140
Agro-tech. ZEt. Center equlp.            set       sum        1      410
Veterinary eqUlp. for dairy cows         act       sum        1       so
Subtotal                                               1550       70     1065      293
Production Xaterials
DAP fcrtiliurr                           ton       745    20000    14900      100    14900     4027
PVC rv materials for plestic mulch       ton     2650      2750     7288      100     7286     1970
Dairy cova tc                          head       3000      400     1200        0        0        0
Saplings for fruitltUiber trees     d . no.  258000          26     6708        0        0        0
Seds for crops                                                      4400        0        0        0
Subtotal                                              34496             22168     5997
Tr ainng & Technical hest.
__________________________
Iarer training                      a-days    1250000         1     1250        0        0        0
Staff training                      a-days       1000        80       sO        0        0        0
Study toursS Local                  m-tripa         40     3000      120        0        0        0
Overseas               a-trips        15    10000       t50      100      150       41
Subtotal                                               1300               150       41
TOTAL SASS COST                                           42475             24871     6722
/at Includes silos for silage.
lbs Llsts of equipmet are Ln the project file.
lc: Imported species but brad locally.



Annex 2
-  74 -                                       Table  18
CIINA
WOS?3 IGAT_ iU P1S.lkWCt
Skta.: Key Monitoring Indlcators              (a)  Planned
(b):  Actual
.___ ___-.------_- ..----------------___---_---__-__-_----------------...........------......-..---...-._______  .-------....   ___---_____________.________----------------...........------.......---...---_. 
Indieator                         UnLt           ---------------------------Year------------------------
19J        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993       1994
Land Dvelopment I Iprvea_mnt                      (a)     (b) (a)      (b) (a)      (b) (a)      (b) (a)       r. (a)      (b)  (a)   (b)
ow ltrrigation areA devoloped la    ha
Zaisitog irrigation area Lproaved   ha
On-fgrm Facities: lb
Newly provided                      ha
Mutating Lmprowed                   he
LOad Levelling                      ha
Agricultural Inputs
Pertillser used                       ton
Plastic mALch used                    ton
Ag. machineryloquipoent               no.
Seeds/Seedlings used                  kglno.
Agricultural Productlon
heat : Area cultivated                  ha
Average yield                    ton/ha
total Production                  ton
Corn, Area cultivated                   ha
Average yield                    tonlha
Total Production                  ton
(To repeat for other crops)
Training
armeros                               a-month
Project Staff:
Local trainig                       rn-month
Overseas training                   a-month
Study tours                         n-month
Consultants services                  a-month
Soclo-economlc /c
Income from sales of produce          Yuan
Income from  off-farm                 Yuan
Total gross Lacom                     Yuan
Total household expendLtures          Yuan
Per capita Income                     Yuan
/at Includes reclamation of sallne waste land.
lb: Covers construction of lateral and sublater-l canals azd structures by contribution labor.
lc: Based on scnplLng of pro-dtternaned areos selected for monltoring.



- 75  -                                       Annex  2
Table 19
CEINA
""~TOM  IUZGATIOU PJROCT
tanant Key HoetatiLng Indicators Id         (a): Planned
(b): Actual
_._____.__-__-__------_----_--_-- --_------.-----------_----------_________________---------------------------
Indictetr                           Uitt                 ------------------------Year------------g---__-_
it"         Ing          1990         1991         1992
_____________.__----____-__- ---------- -------  -- - -- --  - -- -- - --  -- - -- -- - --  -- - -- --  - -- -- - -- -- -
Lend Dsel.p_t   Impreovent                                (a)      (b) (t)      (b) (a)      (b) (a)      (b) (a)     (b)
VW  ir  srtcion area developed la    ha
KnisitnS irrigation area Improved   ha
On-farm facilities: lb
Newly provided                      ha
EIsting improevd                    ha
Land Levelling                      ha
R settle.ont
go. of families relocated             no.
No. of persons relocated              no.
Housing completed                     no.
Schools completed.
Primary                             no.
Secondary                           no.
Health conterslcltnics                no.
Rural roads                           km
Electricity provided                  bouseholds
Water supply provided                 households
Rural shops/enterprises               no.
Agricultural Inputs
FertilLs1r used                       ton
PLastic *ulch used                    ton
AS. machinerylequipment               no.
Seeds Seed1Lngs used                  kglno.
Agricultural Production
Wheat: Area cultivated                  ha
Average yield                    toniha
Total Production                  ton
Corn: Area cultivated                   ha
Average yleld                    toniha
Total Production                  ton
(To ropeat for other crops)
Training
Farers                                a-month
Project Staff:
Local training                       -month
Overseas training                   a-rnth
Study tours                         a-month
Consu.tsnts services                  a-month
Socio-econoaic lc
Income from sales of produce          Yuan
Income from off-facm                  Yuan
Total gross inceme                    Yuan
Total household expenditures          Yuan
Per capita itowa                      Yuan
la: Includes reclamation of waterlogged area
lb: Covets construction of lateral end sublateral canals and structures by contribution labor.
Ic: Based on Lampling of pre-deterinned arge   selected for montoring.
1d: To be used separately for GuhaL, Tongxln, LwapLSilLang ed Jlnyltt-n areas.



- 76 -                                        mA
Tabte I
anw1
Fran te Prtas for Tra    Ziuts  od -m la
(1967 Y'M)
__ __ _   _--- -_                                                -   --    -    _ -----_
VOItaINCR'                  Grin.Y
*Iet    Corn       OL    suar    Lmb         Whoi    Unea   U A?
Lb      /c       Id       Ic       If       L        Ih       Li
Net Trade Status                          N        X        X        m       X        H        14 
1987 Prices
Iztp   Price ()                        133                        146    1726                115     169
Oc  Freiht (S)                         46                         34      473                34       34
CWF or FM Qt       _wd   ()            179       SO      306      180    1250    3151        149      203
CIF or FM Qizbumgdo (Y)                663      298     1L3.      666    4638   11690        55       751
Port cases&      distrhxo'm  an%ji   85                 -127       85    -442      1077       75       93
T    ta:port  Port to  holasalerWkk     22       22      -22       22      -22       22       22       22
Trsport   Fan to *t,lsl eril/           -6       -6       -6       -6       -6       -6        6        6
Prie e-cdLIl                           764      314      979      769    4167   12783        657      o72
processig or   t    adjusumtw                           0.40    0.13                        0.67
Net po 4esaz  owt                                       -110       22
Ecmnc price (Y)                        764      314      502       78    4167   127U         440     82
Fnancial pride CY)
N*L Mw4
-prouCt   t                       4h2      328      910       90    3400    6060
-neotted pro-wt                   dO0      500      840      110    3000    6000       3*0      700
-fre  am*at                       620      500      900              4600    6000
2000 Price
wt Prie ()                             175                        303    172                219      263
Freight CS)                            46                         34      478                34       34
C=  or FM Qi*       o  )               221      133      Slt      337    1250    3151        253     297
C1F or FM QLzhwsdwo tY)                821      495    1921    120        4638   11690       99    1102
Port dhaes 6 distrLbutor's uanninj/  99                 -198      138    -442      10"       110     124
Trmpart: Port to whalelrWk              22       22      -22       22      -22       22       22      22
Twwpart: F   to holeaLer\l/             -6       -6       -6       -6       -6       -6        6       6
Price eu-Mil                           936      511    1695    1404    4167   127           1077    1254
Processing or  watet aedJus=xtW                         0.40    0.13                        0.67
Net prceess    cot                                      -110       22
Sco    price (Y)                      936    Sl        7U       160    4167   12783        721    1254
/a  Warld  BJk projectLos  for 1987 a  2000 in 1947 o.tm    wLu, frn   MD, "MINCT u a            lnd wia
Asaptimis  -d Half-Yarly NAvUim  of Cxtdity Price Foeaet ." Sneml M 1nur.m, Sqtmer 197
wd  195 QChinin   iport or    rt pric    fa    1986 Ciese Statistical    r              (3eljIz: State
StatLticel Burem. 1986) an  S= Km Tzr  Statistic 1ff6 (a t1 : Camzs  I   Statistics
_mruat. 1987).
lb   CwdLm, No. 1   Qstem RHd SpriMg  St. Im_m.
Tc  US, No. 2 Yellw, EU US Gulf ports. adjusted by a facto  of 1.005 to apmte e>        w     hirme a1mr
w1-.
/t  Dtch saybim olL. crx,. FM ax-mLll. adjusted by a factor of 0.94 to *_ro te the sewge QUine
PM a ost pric  for a  sx of rapeseed, cottoweod, penut. a  se_a  ois.
Ic  PM, tAd   at greater Caribbe.i prs
IA   N_ Zeelnl. fn, 4he *ereass, C, S&AL Aable, a-sA.d c             t.
LL  UX, clam 56's, adjstd   by   factor 0.74 to cavrt to geay    wl. asamd cst.
/   loegd (463 N), PU WVt Dope.
/1  D       _m pbp l      Im (RN, 46X P25). bilk. FM US Iulf.
LI  Port dsrmn of YI/tce plus 9X distrlbtor's mrln.
k  *Ama   rai fcaijhr ch-   (YO-016l/tce Ioz) to caj=U*  ar  (1420 In) mIltilLed by the ral
trout         nnie fat    of 0.94.
Ib  Arcgs truk trapot dtmn  (YO.2lton 1) to cweudz  am  (37 im) .uLtLpLisd by the rad teipat
coiniu  fator of 0.81.
Le   Mjusmt  finE  iw  aterial to pzeassd prduct might.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs /
Conversion Factor
Rail Transport                                 0.94
Road transport                                 0.81
Construction  b                                1.23
Equipment                                      1.14
Consumption conversion factor /c               1.35
Farm labor /d                                  0.68
/a   Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S.
Ichishima and A. Wood, "Economic Analysis of Aluminum
Milling in Shanghai" (mimeo, May 1982). The update used the
exchange rate at negotiations of Y3.71/US$1.00; 1987
domestic and international prices; and 1985 Chinese import
or export prices from 1986 Chinese Statistical Yearbook
(Beijing: State Statistical Bureau, 1986) and Honr
Kong Trade Statistics 1986 (Hong Kong: Census and Statistics
Department, 1987).
/b   Based on 1987 conversion rates for unskilled, technical and
supervisory labor, steel, timber, cement, machinery, and
other nontraded goods or services of 0.68, 2.71, 1.35, 1.16,
2.59, 1.06, 1.14, and 1.35 respectively (see note /a).
/c   Weighted average of ratios of projected 1987 economic to
financial prices for rice, wheat, corn, vegetable oil, pork
and other animal products, sugar, and beverages. The
weights are based on 1983 household consumption survey data
for Ningxia.
/d   Fifty percent of the market wage times the consumption
conversion factor.



kteoo  Crop Uudlet at Full D0lo_pnt (Tuenlth)
Iwat                Corn              S tfL r             Sugarbet              *etsbli;            ioblenae            Linseed             F4doeribf
ubit    Pete        ha.      Value       At.     n lue      AcV. Vlu               t.     J_         dt.     Value       dt.    Value          Wt.     Vlue       A. nt       lu
ithout Prcojet
I_yt Coat.
See.                                                233       13                    I13       -                              6 13 te  7.3      2235     22.5        133        So        If
~I_t     I:*    hI~~                    6.36       300 ~r 3  l         US ft e31                                 0         0          0 2to             330        62        s00        36
= Z 1.-f"1-e             -                              sI'  s    ON        61                           100        10         -i                   -         0        -
mm    tetuetue                       60         7.3         33       7.3         30                            6        3                    3         .          3        - 
ras  t,.                                                                                                               GO~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  fl9  1202
Itg,    leo                              00        6273       111      63M        III       3630       Id       6373        '       3600        GI      3900          2      1006        Si
VACht  n?  19                    e                     3        33                  13         1         s        12       t1o          I        I's       -          0
mu1l                              1.3          33        60                  St        36        33        33        6          23        26        2         26,       3          33
Drift                we~~~~A i               Igo                 21233                                    203        3         3 40                173                I133
Othet                                                          73                    O                  90                 ISO                 'ss                  ISO                  is
_ittbtxl  " 6      604                 s5                  so0                  7"                  $26 200
1104                         Vtem,                2.30                  .3                  .5                20.00       '0      16.701.S                                  ii.1
Pr1_ o110
Ft L'                          At25                            2       3Ueo Tia            X 6o 0             2e" o         li     e           I5      12O 5        175                 9 o ff    
value                          V                          1300                1300                12tO                2200                 2700                2166                1012
-- -- -                                  - -- - ---                                                                      ----3D
lIt Value                           V                           61                    96                 973                1300                1932                 1336                 133
lqet Costs
3e36                 2         7         270       100        32        33       I"         7                    S2. 720  270       13 S
Seeda                               233       flj~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                            IC,1 S 213           22                   33 
t:1Z6r3ttboov  1$t                              130 t 00   2  2S                                   al        13        90         H         00        135       90        -.         S          -         0
erti-  loo   e            o        6'*0                            1 5t36    10 e3                'z      e 1370     e lOS                1          9         630   103o          73e       130       103
FtXr                              V                             6 '                                      2                  GO                 I"                   120                   2                  --
ear       0.02      303"       15        6         19       32            5     646Il                30                   00          3      1336         G1      S63-i
Ctl"t~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                              51          IG       502                            III      goof        It       "on75                                    
is r   00         61        063                            3        3         16       270                                        0         3        41I                  4
1:13         36        33        1         131       33        36        so        63        I5         II        I5        10         4        3                      
Otint                               26,        75       215       ISO        too732130ISO 1                           20       163       l          161       I7Ois3                          0
oubtotel                      V                            619                 563                 333                10"                 1093                  6235                *33                  310
value of  .tut 
Yilod                           tu                  .36.06                                 2.30       O       30.00        t       23.00               20.O06O              1.63                 3.73
Prtce                          Ito.                           5320                300                 660s 11                                                                  U        20         7
value                         T                          2133                 2300                2130                3300                 I73                 3300                1316
net Value                       t                          1326                1317                1697                2214                 2637                26U                 1063
i;t  i- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   -------w-
bl      'OL$bt_
WIW



-mu
RSA
Yumi-: Czp  Jdt at  ull Dewlqpmt (Yimua)
PervmilI Pasture
Iuat             Gagm               unflamr           Iilet           Linseed           Vegetables      YVsr I       Years 2-4      Year 5
Unit     -- - - ----- -- - -                                                       - ---  -_ --    -_ -- --  --__-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
thlt    Price     ht.    Value      Amt.    Value      Amt.   Value    Jrnt.   Value    ARt.   Value    Aht.   Value  hut.  Value  hit, Valur   St.  Value
With ProJct
lwut costs
Seea                          kg                300      179       38       61       IS       21        90       41       90      126        8      225     15     45     --      0      --     0
C.lcal fextLl.zar (N)         kg     0.36       335      i2       545      19      340      122       200       72      240       86      300      108    34    12    --         0      --      0
Omelcal fertilizer (P)        V4      0.70      135       95      150      105      128       89       113       79    112.5       79      150      105    150    105    215    151      75    5D
1eUw                         ton      6.00        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0     --      0     -             --      0
Plt pzrtectten                 Y                           6                 3                  9                 0                 0               120            30            30             30
Irr4igtln                   aim      0.09      6525      555     5925      504     4800      408     4350       370     4800      as      6000      510    00    408   4800    408   4600    40
ewtmr7                      bxar    15.00         6       90        6       90        6       90         6       90        6       90        6       90      6     90     --      0      --     0
Draft  umls              wmykday      1.13       53       60       36       41        30       34       33       37       44       50       35       39    15      17     15     17      15     17
Labor                    iAY                    150               240               162                105               120               255             110            60            60
O(ker                          Y                          75               170                 80                50                60               175            60            20             20
a                           Ytal  V                  1180              1169               853                739               a99              1372           767           625           52?
Value of DAtput
YIeld                        ton               4.50              6.75              2.50               3.75              2.25             22.50            2.50%aI       5.00%al       3.DO%aI
Price                      Y/tmn                         520               400               860                400               920               150
value.                      Y                        2340              2700              2150               1500              2070              3375
Net Value                        Y                        1160              1531              1297                761              1171              2003
%at Dry wi&ut.



Yian: Fr:uit Tree Budget (YuanIba)
Year 1           Years 2-3         Yeas 4-5          Years 6-7         Year 8-9           Year 10
Unit                                                                              --------  ----_--- - _
unit   Price      hit.    Value    hAt.   Value    Amt.   Value    Ant.   Value    hnt.   Value    Amt.    UaLue
with Project
Seed                          kg               300      240       15       12       --        0       --        0       --        0        --       0
a al fertilizer (N)           kg     0.36       40       14       75       27       75       27      100       36      100        36      100      36
Qmscal fertilizer (P)         kg     0.70      120       84       65       46       65       46       85       60       85       60       85       60
taze                         ton     6.00       --        0       -         0       --        0       --        0        --        0       --       0
Plant potectim                 *                         30               150               200               250                300              300
Irrmtihn                    cu al    0.09     3150      268     3150      268     4725      402     6300      536     6300      536    6300       536                                     1
llhinery                    hrm   15.00          6       90        3       45        3       45        3       45         3       45        3       45                                   00
Draft arnals            iwoHday      1.13       15       17       15       17       15       17       15       17        15       17       15      17                                    0
Lar                      workday               150               170               170               175               190                190                                             1
Othr                           Y                         -                 30                60                90                120              150
satotal                     Y                        743               594               796              1033              1113              1143
Value of Ospt
Yield                        ton              0.00              0.00              3.00              6.00             12.00              15.00
Prleo                       Y/ttu                       400               400               400               400               400               400
value                       Y                          0                 0              120               2400               48W              6000
met Value                        Y                       -743              -594               404              1367              3687              4857



0|1F
mt le liATI66 PawEd
Farm bilefi
(Ytuan OIousehn1d )
PROJECT  YEAR
t        2        3         4        5         S                            g a  9  10        II       iP    i3-3
INIL As  IAU\%,
grow Val " of Prod..  Sn        277       2727    2gm        321      26         q6 411427                   426      4U        4464     440       44
hdmi husba.dry                                               I w       N        r                             0       47        47       47        477
letatl                     2265      2J0      3137      35I      316       4900     4=11      bile     Sil       5215     5V37      GM6      G
pettm E_lmttC c
"Fl    are" c                   12U       1212     1305   1*SO        1373      1440      1440     1440      144      1440      1440     14"       1440
free e                             a 10  lOt        36       4a        34        30       SO        so       50        bo Oo  5 bO                  be
A,imetebendryl                   Go        so       6a       16S       240      m        224       35       a3        304       364      24        21
_atetat                    l2        141"    i4n         i       i6so      1737     1614      1642    164       1674  U674    174          iS74
541 Fern Income                 111       lo6      11        g61        m2?     2563     3117      3272      3363     3341      3362     2366      2466
Total Ibugehld lncome           2115      2056               2561     2627      36       3817      3773     3263      31141     36       36        36
Labor Aq.l  rest                 41        427      416       412      431       432      450       418       487      460       460      466       466
"M1t el JIn,intn\b/
Gre_ Volvo of Production
Field crop                     2427      2440     2440      2697     er6       31       3413 322            355      3062      3079    32         31613
F Ip                              O         O        O       n         240      no 324  46                     o 0 a   o6        760     m         KI
Anleel l.sbsndry                136       13       141       1a        114      111       165      171       177      163      1I"       162       le7
,ebt7tel                   257          1    Om         a35      3346      3624     a         41       4322      4425     46a        -       416 
Preduction Empnitlure.
Field crepe                      523      on       m         on       1216     1662      1o62     lo6       1662     1062      1062     1662      lo62
Fi1_n                              o        a         6      1la       142      170       224      216       m1       316       316      "I        316
Animal huedry                     59       62        65       6         70       73        76       71        el                 u        as        a
miblegel                   1012      1216     1623      116       23       136      1362      1457     1451      1462      146      1467     146
not Fer Ince.                   1544     1565      1569     1671      2126     2319      2877     273      e26       g         326      212       2142
Total Iecrn                      WAS4    INS       16s    1967        2206      2396      26517    Om        e4       264U    32143      216       33
Lmtor _e.i    eSt                 326      326       321      330       331      333       333     a2        236  33     6       336      341       346
MWEL Cs Yln   Lift IrrletioAnc/
ree. Velee of Prodution
Field crep                       46      16        son      2272      2423     2575      2721     3aI       36       362      32        2616 
a        a         6        6       16i      403       In       an          S      36       116      11m       11
125       13        25       00        SO      123       le7      224       26       436       425      45        45
emibtotet                   525      1962     le4       2336     276       3161      3460     3653      467      4495      4=60     4150      46
Prodcmtln Eape_iturn
Flied cre"                       166     1121      1129     1200      1225     1271      1306     1377      1377      1377     1377     1277      1277
Fl td 'cesery                      S0     276       153      162       114      223       274      274       2Z7      217       En       go
'A=lr%d.ndry                      25       O S               113       147      176      11       201       m 2m               m        a"i  I
eubLotet                    125      1472     1373      1475      151C     1672      17el    1Me        166         S      16       1ow       166
Net Fern Inm                      466      510        n2      a2       1113     1436      1720     164       24D1     266       2716     2766      27t                                - .
ToteS Iscm                       10DO     1066      10D0     1000      1163     1510      1no0    2074       2461     2646      2U0      260       2346
Laebr ReqIreaset                  166      261       2C5      217       270      272       27t      270       204      26         -       2n        2a 6                                X
\aW The ewerepe houneeld he_ 4.3 rfilll _ sbers en  ranie 1.7 he in year I   ce                    1 hel ho                      eld Inc_m  include
VS"6 of off-formoe mam.                                                           I~t   .   eb   erS              oa   osmdlcmlcu
\1w  Lochb heb__d rfere 1.36 he en  he 5 really eshre.  toet  hw_etod incm  Include  Y6  of off-fare Inee
\W/  Eech hocw_ld  are.  .35 he ais  km 5 feiel  m_rber .   o0l, omeelotd lucene Includee paverneL _ifere maletence ed  projectpld
as-fern utoweel In yets, 1-4 IV4             . 1, V 7*    1126 reegptivet,l W e   W  in off-fer   ncome in lvetr  5-30.



- 82 -                                           ANNEX  3
cam                                                Table 7
naRS8Xm  tZRICAT!UIOh*lJCWT
Rent nd Cost Recovery
Yianan                          Total
8ta-e           ---------------------------              Project
----------        Jinyintan    Lift Irrigation         -----------
96.300 hbs        3,500 hhs          22,830 hhs        122,630 bas
--------   Yuan per household   -----------        -Y million-
At Full Development%&/
Incremental Not Inco e\b/                                 1811               1651               2127                229
Less incremental:
Family labor (Laputed value)\cl                          176                 42                558                 30
Management services (Liputed value)\dl                    91                 Ss                106                 11
Return to own capital (Lputed)\e/                        91                 83                 43                 10
subtotal                                              357                207                707                 51
Equals
Project Rent                                            1454               1444               1420                178
Incremental Project Charges:
Water charges                                             98                 53                287                 16
OK obligations%fl                                        30                 --                 61                  4
subtotal                                              128                 53                348                 20
Rent Recovery Index (Z)\ra                                    9                 4                 24                 12
Over Proje.3t's Life\hl
-Projct Rent                                              5099               5431               2648                570
Project Charges
Water charges                                            509                422               1529                 85
OM oblLationsafI                                       184                 --                491                 29
subtotal                                              693                422               2020                114
Rant Recovery Index (W)\oI                                  14                  8                 76                 20
Projoct Costs%L                                                                                                      576
Reduced Public SubsidiesUjI                                   --                 --               1918                 44
Cost Recovery Index (M)WkI                                                                                             27
%aI  Year 2000 incremental income expressed Li constant 1967 values.
\bl  Before water charges.
WcI flmily labor, excludLng O) obligations, valued at Y4.Olvorkday in hetao end Y3.01workday in Ylnnan.
Id/  live percent of net increaental income.
oI  flive percent of not incremental incom  in HEtao end Jinyintan and 2S ln Ytinan lift irrigation.
fl Flifteen workdays per ha valued at the financial wage rate (see footnote c).
WgI Total charges (excluding reduced public subsidies) an a percent of project rent.
\hl  Exprossed as present values discounted at 122 over the 30 year project life.
UiJ  Not present value of totaL incremental public outlays, Lcluding settlement and OU costs, but excluding
Yinbei studies and those rural development costs which will be recovered from sales to fagmers, foes for
service, or loan repayment.
%jJ Reductions Ln food, water, and fuel subsidies.
\kl Project charges, icludLng reduced public expenditures, as percent of project costs.



CHINA
NORTHERN IRRICATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benfits (Hetao)
(Yuan  mill on)
PROJ  E C T  Y f A A
I       e        3        4       5        *        7        8        9      1       11       12   13-tS   16-20   21-30
NET WAIE
Fl-ld cra                        -        -     93.3   127.6   187.1   195.1   2O5.6   256.0   256.0   259.0   259.0   259.0   273.4   273.4   273.4
Tr  crops                        -      -3.4    -4.0    -4.5    -4.7    -6.0        2.2      6.6    10.9    14.9    18.9    18.S    18.9    16.6    16.9
Animl tubmaded                   -        -      0.S      2.7      5.5    11.3    15.8    16.9    10.9    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3
1T0AL                         0.0    -3.4    90.2   120.0   167.9   201.5   253.6   292.5   206.4   215.?   299.2   20.2   313.6    313.6   313.6
Civil usA.                    21.1    37.0    56.6    56.2       46.2    19.6    16.2        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
on-for  developmet            13.2    16.S    26.4    56.4    20.0    56.4    34.5           -        -        -
Electrifiaelon                 2.6      5.3     8.C                                           -           -   -
tuiuqserlgm *adm manement      6.7      2.0     2.6      2.6      2.6      2.0      0.6                    -       -        -            -        -        -
kercb  _  *tra"Im"9\W          3.5      7.6     6.5 6     .5      6.1      1.0       -       --       -        -                 -       --       -
Phpaical centimpaalem          1.7      2.8      4.2     5.8      5.6      4.0      2.5      -        -        -            -        -            -        -
aat.tel                     42.g    74.5   105.1   In.6   126.          20.1    54.1 t
40ratli  ai lintenumes
LabeorW                         -       0.8     2.2      4.1      6.0      6.9    10.5    11.5    11.5    11.5    11.5    11.5    11.5    11.6    11.5
__nr                            -       6.1      0.3     0.7      1.0      1.4      1.7     1.8      1.8      1.6      1.8     1.8      1.6      1.6      1.S
E-Pgy\cl                        -       0.3      O.5     0.S      1.1      1.3      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4
bi tance                        -       6.2     6.6      1.1      1.8      2.4      2.6     3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1      3.1     3.1      3.1      3.1 '
_peir ae  replac_*.nW           -       0.2      0.5     1.0      1.5      2.1      2.4     2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7    17.3       2.7                    0o
mbtetsl                      0.0      1.6     4.1       7.6    12.0    16.1    16.6    20.5    20.5    20.5    26.5    20.5    20.5    S5.1    26.5
TOAL CIIIITS                  42.8    76.0   109.2   140.2   136.5   102.2    73.0    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.6    36.1    20.5
UlaUTEAL MET mUnEFITS
me value                         -      -3.4    90.2   126.0   1U7.9   20M.5   253.0   202.5   20.4   295.2   299.2   290.2   313.6   313.0   313.6
Total Costs                    42.      76.0   10.2   146.2   136.5   110.2    73.0    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    35.1               ".5
Vithout Project Net value        -        -      01.0    94.4    97.1   101.1   104.4   107.7   107.7   107.7   107.7   107.7   129.2   166.2   190.2
With Project lncrantel
Not fettt                    -42.3   -76.5  -110.0  -10O.6    -M.4    -1.9    70.2   154.2   190.2   167.0   170.6   170.9   164.9   170.3   114.9
El = tLt      WV =   347.2
\aW  Includes bulldtnge  atul_ant an materials for taretatrle  nd  atofiea, s.rainin mgid technical eeathtnce.
W    Includes mannal _ee (VI!I0 of 140 moter _merce Suram  StfF mad coautrilted tabor at 3.1  ilttlion weolkeys (15 eaakdoWe par hel.
\c/ 20.1 OK% of *tlctrlc pfanr.
\IV  Inctude. rvplc_mnt Of mtlt p.Ue. electric motors, Vud otLhr aqulpsat In Veers 16 to 20.
a-f'



CHINA
NORTIERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits (Jinyintan, Yinnan)
(Yuan million)
PSOJECT   VEAF
I       2        3        4        5        0        7        a        9       10       11       12   13-9
UT 114UE
Field on                         -       4.7      4.0      0.0      e.g      3.3      Y.7      0.1      0.1      8.1      0.1      0.1      6.4
F     _dwas,                     -        -        -       0.2      0.3      0.4      0.5      0.6      1.0      1.3      1.0      1.0      1.7
Tom                           0.0      4.7      4.7      0.0      0.0      7.3      0.p      0.7      9.1      9.4      9.7      9.0   1.$
CivSl mre                      0.0       .1      1.4      1.p       -        -        -        -                 _        _        _
l-fore velep.mt                1.0      1.0      3.0      0.4       -        -        -        -        --                -        -        -
beitlervMOuqpmest              0.2       0.7     0.7      0.0      0.2    -1.2        -        -        _        _        __        _       _
_asere  md  wee_mmnt           0.1      0.       0.2      0.2      0.1       -        -        --       -        -        --       -        -
lraining mg TA                 0.1      6.1      0.1      0.1       -        -        -        --       -_                                  __
Flutb                            -        -       -       1.S      2.2                                                     -       --
Physical conthWcoasi.           0.1      0.1     0.2      0.2      0.1       .
subtoeal                     3.2       3.9     5.7      4.0      P.0    -1.2        -        --       -
117T41 IIET  NEFITS                                                                                                                                                                      c
lb  Vta.                         -       4.7       4.?     5.0      0.0       7.3     0.2      0.7      0.1      0.4      0.7      0.0    10.1
r t" rats                       3.2      3.0      S.?      4.0      e.0    -t.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
VItUta  PtFrJu   Not Volvo       -       4.8      4.0      4.0       4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.6      4.0      4.1
"Miss rje   mr..e
1t1  _flto                     -3.2    -3.0    -5.7    -3.0    -0.          3.9       .0      4.1      4.5      4.0      5.1      5.1      5.5
EM    211     M  =      13.0
\W1 ETcluiss cco Uof Setttnunt sW  VttaoI Studios. I10,1 of Weratime me mainteanne costs are recovered rre meter roe charged to
project or" t _fers.
.0



CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Econimic Cost and Benfits (Lift Irrigation, Yinnan)
(Yuan  million)
. .. _ ... . ... .. ... .. . _ . .... ~~~~~. . . .  .. .         .    . . . _.__________
P040ECl YYEAR
I       2        3       4        5       6        7        a       6       10       11      12       12      14   15-20
631 WAISE
Field cdpe                      -       3.8     6.0    11.6    10.9    06.2    30.2    33.6    34.4    35.1    36.5    36.6    37.4    27.4    37.4
Orc*rd                         -      4.5    -4.3    -1.7    -.7    -1.6          0.3      1.9     5.1      7.4    11.1    13.9    I6.6    17.1       1.j
1Timr                           -      -6.5   -4.       -t.o    -4.1    -1.0       0.3     i.e    P2.        3.?     4.1      4.1      4.1     4.1      4.1
Animal iwebe_ry                 -      -1.1    -1.3    -0.6    -0.6    -0..       -0.3      0.5      . e     4.3      4.3     4.2      4.3     4.3      4.3
101TO                        0.0      0.6      2.3     6.3    15.1    22.9    30.4    37.0    4P.7    bO.0    55.3    5S.0    6.6    63.7    64.6
0l6\.#
Invmt_mnt,
Civitl riks                   4.p      9.3    12.2    11.6    16.2        - 
ei-fmu   dewmiopmt            12.1    11.6    21.5    1.2    15.6          - 
Eletrifi                      1.6      1.       1.6     1.6      1.0      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
lmil*isery  _a eqiapmt         1.7     5.1      5.1     4.2      1.4    -0.7                         -       -        -            - 
E.ugimerSng mu munsoemmt      0.5      1.7      1.7     1.7  o.            -       -        -        -       -        -       --       -        -       -
Ire1iim En TA                 0.4      0       0.0 6    0.6       -                -        - ---                     _       _ 
PS'el3cI cstimuaglme          0.6       .       1 t.6            1.        -       -            -        - _          __
mlt*tet                    21.6    31.6    4S.0   32.2    30.1    -0.7           =        _        _       _        _        _       _        _       __
Operation WAcag
L.W                            -       0.1     0.3      0.5      0.6     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.6      1.6      1.6     1.6
Riummmnt                       -       0.4      6.6     1.6      2.2      2.6     2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6      2.P     2.     2.6       1.1    2P.
tU6f61/                        -       1.6      1.S     2.5      5.1      6.3     6.2      6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3     6.3       .3
linuwAot_                      -       0.2      0.4     0.0      1.1      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3     1.3
st.imt                      6.0      1.6      3.5     6.4      6.2    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1
1MAL CO61                    21.6    33.2    46.5    44.6    36.3        2.4    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1
INCNE0AL NET        ITSfl
et; wee"                         -      0.6      3.3     6.3    15.1    22.8    30.4    37.0    42.7    5.0    565.3    56.0    90.1    63.7    64.6
Totat 1mo ne2.6    33.2    46.5    44.6    36.3                            2.4    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1    11.1
tmmgmmt.s Ui 6.fNtot          41.6   -22.3   -.2   -26.4    44.3    60.4    16.2    25.6    2a.             36.6    44.2    47.6    61.4    53.1    W3.5
rn-S      N-        W6.m
%a9 Incuemmmis mo ofmItImemImed NWViuaio ltgod$m.
W    Vglv. mf 0.47 mUll.n mm*d"em of cmutribated Sber 115 moridaps per blam.                                                                                                  i
\.cv W6.7s of mimctric Power required to pwo 13 Ellismn cob. micora or woatr et an ovareq e .ighted lift of 156 mat.rm.
r . sn " ".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
NORTHERN IPRIGATION PROJECT
SensLtivity AnalysLs
Base     SvitchLng                         Base     Svitching                         Base      SvLtching
Case     Values la      Change             Case     Values la      Changi             Case     Values la       Change
(Y mln)     (Y mln)        (2)               (2)         (2)           (X)            (Y mln)      (Y mln)        (2)
Betao
-rehabilLtation               622         1175        +88X              100X          88X         -17X              2.7         10.0        +270X             Oo
Yinnan
-expanslon                    158          250        +55Z              l0OX          81X         -18X              2.0          4.3        +11O
-rehabilitation                16           23        +88X              lOO1          802         -202              2.0           tb           lb
-total                        174          283        +80X              1002          812         -192              2.0          4.7        +130X
Total Project                   796         1441         +80X             100l          822         -182               Ic           Ic        +230X
la: Percentage change In variable being tested at vhlch NPV of project economic costs and benefits,
discoumted at 12X, ls reduced to zero.
lb: ERR is not sensitive to changes in the value of this varlable.
Ic: Absolute value of thls varlable dlffers between project areas.
Ii



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Environmental Impact Study
of Wuliangsuhai Lake
Hetao, Nei Monggol
Introduction:
1.        Almost all of the drainage water from the Hetao
Irrigation Area flows into Wuliangsuhai Lake (the Lake) before
being discharged into the Yellow River. The Lake, a 300 sq km
marsh with the water level controlled by a gate, is primarily
used for production of fish and reeds, the latter used as raw
material for paper production. Completion of the project's
drainage works would increase drainage inflows into the Lake and
would result in a temporary increase in salinity in the Lake due
to leaching of the salinized soils. To assess the effects of
increased salinity  on the ecology of the Lake, the project
authorities have commissioned the Environmental Hydrogeology
Research Institute /a, Ministry of Urban, Rural Construction and
Environmental Protection, to carry out an environmental impact
study. The study, which began in May 1987, is expected to be
completed by June 1988 with an interim report made available in
December 1987 and the draft final report scheduled in March
1988. Initial findings based on existing data suggest that
project activities would have no significant adverse environmental
effects on Wuliangsuhai Lake. On the contrary, the environment
in the long run would be expected to be enhanced as a consequence
of (a) the increased volume and circulation of water in the Lake
resulting from increased inflows, (b) the substantial reduction
of present salinized soil areas, and (c) the increase in area
under vegetative cover that would support a larger number of species
of flora and fauna.
Scope of Study
2.        The study covers the following fields:
i)   Water  pollution  by  industrial  effluents  and  urban
discharges from the drainage area of HIA;
ii) Present and future water salinity level in the Trunk
Drain and the Lake and its effect on fish;
iii) An assessment of the effect of agro-chemicals on the
water quality;
iv) An assessment of residue of heavy metals in fish;
v)   Hydrogeology of the Lake and effect of salinity intrusion
into the Lake's surrounding area; and
vi) Proposals for water quality management.
/a The Institute is assisted in the study by:
The China Environmental Research Academy
Changchun College of Geology
Taiyuan Industrial College
Nei Monggol Water Resources Design Institute
Ba League Environmental Monitoring Unit



- 88 -
Initial Findings
3.   Water Pollution:  The environmental study team has conducted
surveys of industrial effluents from some 15 major factories (food
processing, tannery, paper mill, brewery, etc) and urban discharges
from major townships in the project area. The surveys included
samplings, estimation of effluent volumes, mode of dicharge and
analysis of pollutants. Industrial effluents were estimated at 1.9
million m3/year and urban discharges at 2.7 million m3. Since the
factories and urban centers are dispersed and located some distance
(150-160 km) from the Lake, most of the pollutants are substantially
degraded and diluted as they move through the system of drainage
channel. Water samples collected at Dengkou for the Trunk Canal and
at Honghebu for the Trunk Drain have been analyzed for 14 parameters
(Table 1). The pollution index (pi) for each of the 14 parameters
was determined using the formula in Table LA. The overall pollution
index (p) for the water samples are then compared with the Chinese
National Standards for Surface Water Class III (Table IA). Sampling
results show that the water quality in the Trunk Canal at p - 0.27
and that of the Trunk Drain at p - 0.35 and the Lake at p - 0.31 are
withir. the category of "still clean" which has a range of p - 0.2 -
0.4, except for chromium which is near the standard limit. A comparison
of these Chinese standards with the FAO recommended guidelines /a
for maximum concentration of trace elemnents in irrigation water for
continuous use on all soils shows the Chinese standards to be much
more stringent. The Institute has recommended continued monitoring
of the industrial effluents and, if necessary, imposition of pollution
controls on those factories whose effluents exceed the pollution limits.
4. Salinity Levels: The study team carried out salt balance
studies for the project area using the differenit drainage modules
designed for different soil types, topographical conditions and
degree of salinization. With completion of the project's drainage
works, the total annual drainage flow in the Trunk Drain is expected
to increase from 550 mln. m3 to about 800 mln. m3 with a salinity
level of about 2.0 gm/l. After discharging into the Lake the salinity
level would increase to about 3.0 gm/l due to the concentration
process caused by evaporation losses in the Lake (300 mil. m3).
However, the annual flood and precipitation (total 116 mln m3) would
dilute this salinity level to about 2.6 gm/l and the existing water
in the Lake with a salinity of 1.8 gm/l would dilute further the
salinity level to about 2.3 gm/l. The projected monthly salinity levels
for 1990 to 2003 (Table 2) shows declining salinity levels after
peaking at 2.3 gm/l in 1998.
5.        These projected salinity levels are well below the historical
record of high salinity levels in the Lake (Table 3 ). Experimental
results in China have shown that silver and common carp (the predominant
species in the Lake) can tolerate the following salinity levels:
/a: FAO Drainage & Irrigation Paper No.29
"Water Quality for Agriculture" published in 1979.



- 89 -
Carp          Silver Carp
Fingerlings                6 gm/i          5-6 gm/i
Current Year Fish        7-10 gm/i           -
Adult Fisf                 10 gm/i         8-10 gu/l
The above salinity tolerance is supported by the fish harvest
tonnage recorded in Table 3 for the years 1975-80 during which
the Lake had high salinity level ranging from 3.3 to 8.8 gm/l.
6. Effects of Airo-chemicals: Annual records of types and
quantities of agro-chemicals used are available from 1977-86. The
use of fertilizer inreased progressively from 18,000 mt in 1977
to about 227,500 mt in 1986. The use of pesticides /a varied with
the year depending on the prevailing pest situations. Annual
quantities range from 210,000 kg to 700,000 kg. The average
fertilizer application during 1983-86 was about 0.5 ton/ha and
pesticides was only about 1.0 kg/ha. Water samples have been
collected at the outfall of the Trunk Drain into the Lake and in
the northern and southern parts of the Lake for analysis of agro-
chemical substances. Results in Table 4 show very low levels of
the pesticides listed and no detectable trace of 1605, Roger,
DDV, DDT and other harmful pesticides.
7.             Under the project 20,000 mt of DAP fertilizer will
be applied as a soil amendment after drainage improvement to
improve the soil nutrients. This quantity represents an average
of 0.09 ton/ha or 18% increase over the present average
application rate (0.5 ton/ha). No pesticides will be provided
under the project.
8. Residual Heavy Metals and Fluoride in Fish: Fish samples
were collected in June 1987 from the northern and southern parts
of the Lake for analysis of residual heavy metals and fluoride.
The average values are shown in Table 5. The mercury (Hg) residues
are well below the Chinese permissible standard of 0.3 ppm for fish.
No Chinese standards have been established yet for fluoride, copper
and zinc. However, the waters in the Lake contain a very low level
of these elements (Table 1). Other heavy metals, cadmium and lead,
have not been detected in the analysis.
9.   Salinity Intrusion to Periphery of the Lake:  Due to sub-
surface f'nws, both vertical and horizontal, between the Lake and
its periphery, it would be necessary to study the possible effect
of salinity intrusion into the aquifers of the Lake's surrounding
areas by a mathematical model with a set of pre-determined boundary
conditions. Borings have been made to obtain the hydrogeological
profiles of the Lake and its periphery. The Institute is setting up
the model in collaboration with the Department of Civil Engineering,
University of Wisconsin, USA. The model will project more accurately
the salinity changes in the Lake and its periphery and will be used
/a Including fungicides and herbicides.



- 90 -
for future water quality management. Results of the study would be
expected to be made available in June 1988.
Follow-up Actions
10.       During appraisal the project authorities have agreed to
the follow-up actions summarized below:
a)  Complete  collection,  analysis and evaluation of  data  and
setting ip of the mathematical model for more refined  projection
of salinity changes;
b) Work out a contingency plan with strategies to be adopted
should the salinity exceed the safe level projected;
c) Complete the draft final report in March 1988; and
d)   Strengthen  and  expand the  existing  network  of  sampling
stations to monitor the water quality in the main drains, Trunk
Drain and the Lake.
Conclusion
11.       The environmental impact study carried out is comprehensive
and reflects the interest of the project authorities in environmental
issues. Based on the existing data and initial findings, the following
conclusions can be drawn:
a) The temporary increase in salinity in the Lake is gradual
and the projected peak level of 2.3 gm/liter is well within the
tolerance levels for the fish in the Lake. The reeds and cattails,
which have much higher salinity tolerance levels, will not be
affected by the projected salinity increase. Contingency plans can
be worked out, if necessary, to contain the increase in salinity
through periodic flushing of the Lake, especially dturing the wet
months, and releasing fresh irrigation water into the Lake. However,
it appears unlikely that these stanby measures would be required.
b)    The present pollution of drainage water by industrial
effluents and urban discharges is not related to the project and
would not be aggravated by project's activities. Although the
present degree of pollution in the Lake is still within the
Chinese standards, the project authorities would consider
imposing pollution control at source on some of the factories
whose effluents exceed the pollution limits.
c)    The draft final report for the environmental impact study
would be available in March 1988. The recommendations for water
quality management would be reviewed to insure that project
activities would comply with the Chinesa standards for environmental
control. An assurance on this was obtained from the Government
during negotias:ions.



AMNU 4
cIam                       TAMLE 1
JORTHERN IRRIGATI0 PROJECT
-__-----------------------
Eatao: PollutLon Index of Water ln Trunk Canal and Drain and VulLangsuhai Lake
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----------------------------------
Itea/       Chinese lb  PAO la       ---- Trunk  Canal -----    -----Trunk Drain----        ---Wu1Langsuhai Lake----
Parameters  Standards   Guide.lLnas  Tested      Calculated    TSsted        Calculated     Tested       Calculated
(ClIas III)             Values        Index (pi)    Values       Index (pL)    Values        Tndex (pL)
pR          6.5 - 8.5       -               8.29        0.86            8.24        0.83                         1.5
0OD5        <12   mg/i      -               4.13        0.34             5.3        0.43                         0.8
BODS        <3              -                  -           -            1.64        0.54                        0.55
DiJ. Oxygen >4              -               7.35        0.17            5.27        0.68                        0.17
Fluoride    <1.0        <1.0 mg/i           0.56        0.56            0.56        0.56                        0.57
Chorldes    <0.2            -               None           0            None           0                           0
Phenol      <0.005          -               None           0           0.005        1.02                       0.036
Chromlum    <0.05       0.1                 0.05           1           0.014        0.28                           0
Arsenic     <0.05       0.1                0.015         0.3           0.015         0.3                       0.014
Morcury     (0.0005     N.A.                None           0           none            0                         0.6
Copper      <1.0        <0.2               0.022        0.22          0.022         0.22                       0.076
Aluamnlim   <0.05       <5.0                None           0           None            0                       0.014
Zinc        <3.0        <2.0                lone           0           None            0                       0.008
CadmiuM     <0.005      <0.01               None           0           None            0                        0.02
Overall Pollu-
tlon indGA (P)                                          0.27                        0.35                       0.31                    - a
Source: CIGIS, MLnistry of Urban and Rural Constructlon and Environmental Protection.
tat Recommended mazx_im concentration of trace elements in LrrLgation
waters to be used continously on all soils. Ref. PAO Drainage & Irrigation Paper No.29
'Water QualLty for Agriculturs' pubiLshed La 1979.
lb% Chinese national standards for surfae wator have flve classes I to V
ranked ln descending order of quality. Class III refers to water vwth still good quality



ANNEX 4
-92 -aF*T
CHDI# NATIONAL StADAS
!IUACE WATER OIAlUITY CLANUFICATION
Pollution  CLoaoi-                 Clasaification
Ind"    ficatlon                 Criteria
(PI
<0.2        Cleon       Many of parameters not deteoted,
detected are within standard Liitu.
0.2 - 0.4  Stt II       Parameters dotcted are within LimitS
CLean       or one parameter near standard tliits.
0.4 - 0.7   LightLy     One paremeter sLightLy exceed
PoLLuted    standard limits.
0.7 - 1.0   Moderately  Two parameters exceed standard Limits.
Pol luted
1.0 - 2.0   HeaviLy     Substuntial parameters  ee  standard
Polluted    Limits.
>2.0        Seriously   SubstantiaL parameters exceed  tendaand
Polluted    limits a ft  tims or in  tans of
tin".
POLLUTION INIQBC FOEMLA
sheres      P a overaLL poLLution indes
pit potLution index for individuaL parameter
Cia valuse tasted of individuaL peramters
Cois pollution standsrd limits set for individual
perameters.



Salnty Projections in WulLr.nsuhai Lake
by Salt Balance Nodel
(Unit: Sulit.r)                             ----------------------
Year     Jan      Feb      Mar      Apr      May    Jim        Jul      Aug      Sep     Oct      Now      Doe
1990    1.60     1.60     1.61     1.64     1.81     1.77     1.46     1.50     1.41    1.34     1.25    1.34
1993    1.35     1.35    1.36      1.39     1.53     1.67     1.53     1.46     1.41    1.35    1.29      1.39
1992    1.40     1.41     1.42     1.44     1.60     1.64     1.62     1.57    1.52     1.46     1.40    1.51
1993    1.52     1.!p    1.53      1.56     1.72     1.76     1.75     1.70    1.65     1.58     1.52    1.62
1994    1.63     1.63     1.64     1.67     1.85    1.88      1.87     1.82    1.79     1.70     1.63     1.79
1995    1.73     1.74     1.75     1.78     1.96     2.00     1.98     1.94    1.90     1.80     1.73     1.82
1996    1.82     1.83     1.84     1.87     2.06    2.10      2.09     2.05    2.01     1.91     1.82    1.91
1997    1.91     1.92    1.93      1.96     2.16    2.?10    2.19      2.16    2.12     2.00     1.91     1.99                                   W
1998    1.99     2.00     2.01     2.04     2.26     2.30     2.29     2.25    2.21     2.09     1.99     2.06
1999    2.06     2.07     2.08     2.11     2.33     2.35    2.27      2.19    2.13     2.01     1.98    1.95
2000    1.95     1.96     1.99     2.20     2.23     2.14     2.06     1.99    1.87     1.75     1.81     1.99
2001    1.81     1.82    1.83      1.86     2.05     2.10     2.00     1.91    1.84     1.73     1.62     1.67
2002    1.67     1.68     1.69     1.72     1.90     1.96     1.86    1.76     1.69     1.59     1.48     1.53
2003    1.53     1.54     1.55     1.58     1.75     1.83     1.72    1.61     1.54     1.45     1.34     1.39
Sourc-s Einvromsental HydrogeoloSy Raceerch Institute,
Mlnistry of Urban, Rural Construction and EnvirorAmntal ProtectLon, China
4 >



ANN~EX 4
94ITable 3
Nm_  ZINUATIM  PU11IC
HetuRs a f el Ustinity ad NerveH"   boards In WuLIauhai Lake
Yoe         Flew late the LAk*  I   Flaw fue t_ LAke   I         Harvest ToA_e              Total a
a                      I                         I                                 Vetle
Volms  bLini tZ   I  Values  letinity           I     Fish    feeds Cattilt             I
W (el. a)ll (go/Li  I   (el. as)  (WL)           I   (ta*e)  (teen)   I ta)l  (Y utfl.) I
I
1MO                         3  *                            8670    1178       4" 36 
3                                                           3470    405        713       1.5 I
tI                                                          a   *    146       113       10.5 
ti   a                      .                         *     mo1    taO?       n.e.       3.03 a
1954                                                  a0              370      330       M1. 
/a     1Ur5 I                                                      30m       GM       360       I'm I
1mm                         a                         a      3000     700      340       I.M  I
Is"                                                  gon~aa  03  MD      to       o.u.
1M                                                           a a  m000  300     30       0.47u
m                                                             n o 60    137     50        .31 a
1M70          1n    1.3    *       39.0                      O N00    1751     46       0.= 
1371.       1i6n     1.96    s      10.flo'                    0    sma        115       1.411
18M3         11      1.95   a         .4                      SW51   40010    146        1.6M
1373        1in      1.1 6e   L*                                     gm 10.  a  0  3  Ile  0.ot  a
i974a        107    1.36            70.7              a      300    3441       106       60.3
/a    iP I   16n     1.00   a       466      6.331           Sa5    350        363       00.74
1976          I4 .5    a            16.      7.53     5       0      130        73       Dow6
1677         373     13     a       37.5    5.73              5       00        a        1.773
3so0                 3.00          163.0    4.34             930       74      m         1.00
S1           37    1.54            171.0    3.53             s .0o   5056       37       9.
UM           i       1.77           1.       2.5             a 0    amm         U        3.04
3            36130    1,70          87.4    3.73 .   .      110    507         14O       t.U6
10           300    1.5    ,       13.       u.a            1060      146 07             3.3 
1b 16               a5      1"            3310      1"       a      140    a00         90       4.60.
3641         466    1.1             05.0     13       u     11*0    10o0     note        0,
16 s         54t    1.16   3        040      160            1000   1l10         64      71.4  a
16663        50 11                 355.0              1         8     00       1          .
/as Trunk Orain conatnimted duroi '196547 and enLarged during 1975-76, 1.? os imprsead aftamude1. 
/bs Competien of the outftll ohannet frm the Lake to the Yellow River in 136
inrtead outflo  f w the Lake.



ANNEX 4
_ 95 _                                    Table 4
CHIM
NuaKTh    ZISUATICN PfiOJUC
Hotes Anotyo10 of Woter in gatLinsuhet Lake ftor Aro-oh_inoeL
Insecticides            Trunk Drain              Northern Part            *0uthern Per
Hmonhobu                of Lake                 Ot Lake
(ppm;                    !ppm1                   (PPm)
etneone Hx_e-
chLoride (SK 1.0136                                    0.0136fl                 o.71
Umedicide /a                  0.0oe                    0.0134                  0.0143
O    (DP tichLOornool        0.00107             Not dotected             Not dotcted
3911                          0.1136                    0.22                   0.134
/as Product's nme not Identified.
ANNEX 4
Table 5
Reeduo  of Heavy Netelo * FLuoride In Fish
-   CaCo-p   -S tLvr C rp-  -Locat Spmo0i-
Chemicat    South of    North of    South of    North ot    South of    North of
Etomnto    Lake         Lake         Lake        Lake         Lake        Lake
In Foash
FL Eppml           2.4        3.554       2.418        0.n74         1.6        3.36
Hg              0.0002       0.00          .008      a.lOnE        0.005      0.0033
Zn               1.114         1*34       1.40          1d40        0.49
Cu               0.50W        0.382         0.4       0,347         1.U4
In Orgen
FL (ppml                      0.715                     0.19                   1.028
Zn                            3.400                    3.17
Cu                            1.448                    3.13
Sources Chinese Environtn:aL Research Acdeqy
Notes fther heavy motale, Cd end Pb, have not boen detected in the onaLyso10



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Ningxia Resettlement Component
1.        Rural Poverty and the Resettlement Program.  Though
long considered one of China's "bread baskets," Ningxia is also
the location of some of the nation's most severe rural poverty.
This poverty is concentrated in areas of limited natural
resources in eight upland rainfed counties and four densely
populated cf mties serviced by gravity irrigation systems. The
majority of the poor reside in the upland counties in southern
Ningxia where rainfall is bighly variable and averages only 200
mm annually.  Crops fail :-re often than not and the hardships of
low and variable levels of crop production are made worse by
unsafe drinking water and inadequate fuel supplies for cooking
and heat..ng. A lesser number of the poor reside in upland
counties lttrther to the south where rainfall is more plentiful,
averaging 403-500 mm annually. However, agricultural production
in these higher altitude areas is constrained by the short frost
free period of only 100 days. Lastly, another group of the poor
lives in four counties in central Ningxia serviced by gravity
irrigation from the Yellow River. Cultivated land is as low as
one mu per capita in some villages, and productivity in outlying
areas suffers from salinity and waterlogging.
2.        In 1978, Regional authorities estimated that the
absolute poor residing in these areas numbered at least 400,000
and that minority groups comprised about half of this population.
Current annual per capita income among these 400,000 averages
under Y80, or less than one-fifth the national average. Through
transfers in cash and in kind, the government supplements this
income to a minimum subsistence level -- currently pegged at Y200
-- which is sufficient to maintain life but results in standards
of physical well-being significantly below the average for the
Region as a whole. For instance, expectation of life at birth in
Guyuan Prefecture, where most of the Region's absolute poverty is
concentrated, is only 62.2 years, or about 5% less than the
Regional average of 65.5 years and 12% below the figure for
Yinchuan Citj of 70.4 years. Similarly, crude mortality in
Guyuan Prefecture in 1982 was 0.77%, or one-third greater than
the mortality rate of 0.58% for the Region as a whole. Crude
mortality in Jingyuan County in Guyuan Prefecture, at 0.84%, was
more than double that of Yinchuan City at only 0.41%.
3.        Based on estimates of the carrying capacity of the land
and the potential for off-farm employment, the Regional
Government responded to this chronic absolute poverty by
establishing a long run plan to resettle about 300,000 of the
poor to newly developed irrigated areas. (Income levels among
the 100,000 inhabitants to remain in the upland and the irrigated



- 97 -
areas are expected to rise substantially due to the large
increases in per capita land holdings.) During the first phase
of the resettlement program, 1978-1986, about 120,000 upland and
10,000 irrigated areA farmers were given the opportunity to
resettle. About 100,000 of these settlers relocated within their
own county; the other 3C,000 traveled somewhat greater distances
(between 100 to 200 km) to irrigation areas in adjoining
counties. Nearly all of these 130,000 settlers moved to the
newly irrigated areas serviced by the Tongxin and Guhai lift
irrigation systems. Details of the plan, disaggregated by county
and by time period, are summarized in Table 1.
4.        Organization and Funding.  Ningxia's resettlement plan
is organized and supervised by the Agricultural Planning
Commission of the Regional Government. Within the Agricultural
Commission, the Mountainous Area Department oversees
identification and selection of settlers, the Irrigation
Development Department coordinates the timely completion of new
irrigation areas, and the Finance and Planning Department
integrates the resettlement program into Regional planning.
Implementation of the plan, including selection of settlers and
completion of on-farm works, is handled by the Agricultural
Construction Office at the prefectural and county levels and by
township and village governments at the lowest levels. Beginning
in 1983, the Region's resettlement program has received
organizational and funding support from the Three Xi Commission.
Established by the Central Government in that year, the Three Xi
Commission was charged with the responsibility of guiding
agricultural development and resettlement in Gansu and Ningxia
and guaranteed an annual budget of Y200 million for a period of
ten years. Ningxia now receives about Y20 million annually from
this source. Total expenditure for the resettlerient program in
Ningxia during the period 1978-86, including irrigation
development and resettlement, is estimated at Y188 million.
About half of these funds have been provided by the Central
Government, mostly in the form of construction grants from the
Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power for irrigation
system development during 1978-82 and as development grants from
the Three Xi Comission during 1983-86 for on-farm works.
Regional and local funding and contributed labor, accounting for
the other half of total expenditure, have been used primarily for
on-farm works, transport of settlers, housing and agricultural
setup costs.
5.        Selection Criteria and Implementation.  Resettlement is
on a strictly voluntary basis. In practice, the number of
households wishing to resettle exceeds available slots, and
selection has been competitive. Key selection criteria are the
degree of poverty and the ability to open up new land. Settler
households must have average annual per capita income of less
than Y150 and per capita grain production of no more than 100kg.
The family must have an adequate number of able-bodied workers
with, at the minimum, lower middle school education. These
selection criteria insure that the program benefits are targetted
to those most in need and that thoue moving to the new irrigation



CINAU
RNEM IrR TIN  PRJUMT
TABLE 1s NIite Rio o    tml Rsnettlemet Plsn
1'000 thitantol
Totat                                      133                                      Fuetur
Ptoel"                                                            -         -at ttleet Pto_
to be RAsettled                    Carryiq Capacity          Popeeatio     -
RPsettied   ODmgrig      ceft                                     yet to be    D              D
LocaLity                Under Pte  1          Ppelotloe  Agriculture   Other   Total Resettled  136                 3 mu  Total
Nlinxia Totat                  am        IN          373                     EU      3553        170     U      a      B     173
byma Prefletmee
pW"m amty                     45        24          ms                      as      37     U            I      *     t10    El
-UeiyeenCeuty                 31        14         33             40        11      351        17      3       6      3     17
-ij jI onty                    4         4          337                      1      337          0     -      -      - 
Lofgd Coumty                  30         7          In           1IN         a      146         33      3   a        13     El
-JIywm County                 30         a                           11 Be             S        21     -       7     15      a
-poasi4 County                15         5          117           162        5      187         10     -      10    -       10
subtotl,                 1taa                   1454          1          7a      9 0Is                     as 16 
_  _    . _              _   ~-                      -   -   -   -    -                              a
Tln   Prefecture
-ToROxin County               75         6          33            190       14       207        13      0     13     14 
-yncbl county                 32          1         140            U        I        IN         32            Is 13  -       is
-ZhoneloI County              16         10         271           230       37       3           5     -       B     -        B
-zhong1nlConty                 a         1          196           1         30       1           7     -       7     -        7
-Unbho  City                   5          0                       173                m           5      5     -      - 6
L1ngu Conty                   10          0         207           152       4i       137        10     10    -       -       10
sbtotal                   145                   12U 17        low       139     11S         78    2n      44     14     76
-                    -         a _-                    -           _                                            



- 99 -
areas are capable of the arduous labor required during the
initial years of land development. In addition, preference is
given to households residing in areas with unsafe drinking water,
in'dequate fuel supplies, or where rainfed agricultural
production has led to environmental destruction. Formal
selection of settler households begins with the determination by
the Regional Agricultural Commission of the number of slots
available for each county. The Agricultural Construction Office
within each county then designates those townships which will be
eligible for participation in the selection process. Each
township then determines which villages will participate and
village leaders select candidate households. Townships and
county authorities screen and approve the final list of candidate
households. In addition to this formal process, a small number
of highly motivated households have in the past "self-selected."
Project staff estimate that such households, having moved into
the newly irrigated areas without prior official approval,
comprised about 10% of the settler families in the first phase of
the resettlement program.
6.        A random sample survey of 752 settler households,
conducted by the Population Research Institute of the Ningxia
Academy of Social Sciences in 1986, clearly showed that this
first phase of the resettlement program had been highly
successful. The settler households realized significant
improvements in average per capita income within the first years
of relocation, increasing from about Y100 to over Y300. Settler
families retain rights to their rainfed farm areas for the first
three years after relocation and are allowed to reverse their
decision and return to those lands at any time during this start
up period. However, the survey study showed that very few
settler households had misgivings about having made the move and
that none had opted to relocate back to their original lands.
Project Resettlement Component
7.        Organization and Management.  Project supported
resettlement of 10,830 households to newly expended or completed
irrigation areas would closely follow the guidelines established
during the first phase of the Regional resettlement program. A
Resettlement Unit, with responsibility for overall coordination
of the project resettlement program, has been established within
the Regional PMO. Project resettlement units will also be
established within the prefectural and county level PMO's, and
will be in charge of day to day implementation of project
resettlement. The Regional Resettlement Unit will receive
guidance from the Regional Agricultural Commission. The
prefectural and county level resettlement units will share staff
and work closely with existing resettlement agencies at the
prefectural, county, township and village levels in the selection
of settler households, scheduling of relocation, and setup during
the first few years. The Regional Resettlement Unit has
completed a draft report, available in the project files, which
details the organization ac:id management, costs, scheduling,



- 100 -
establishment of social services, and other aspects of the
project's resettlement component. A special unit would be
established within the Guyuan Prefectural Agricultural
Construction Office for ongoing monitoring and evaluation of
resettlement. It is expected that this M&E work would be
undertaken in close coordination with the Population Research
Institut- of the Ningxia Academy of Social Sciences.
S.        Costs and Scheduling.  Total expenditure for the
project's resettlement component, including transport of family
members and their belongings, first year housing, farm inputs and
machinery, rural electrification and water supply, social
services, engineering fees, and contingencies, is estimated at
Y70 million. These costs are detailed in Annex 2 Table 11.
During project implementation, the 10,830 settler households will
be organized into 3 townships and 26 village 'centers." These
village centers will provide education, health, and other social
services to 117 villages each comprising between 90 to 100
households. To facilitate organization and management of the
resettlement program, the three townships would be established
during the first years of project implementation with an
administrative building, health center, cultural center, high
school, agro-technical extension center, and animal husbandry
station to be constructed in each township by 1990.
Establishment of the village centers, including an administrative
office, health clinic, elementary school, and rudimentary
agroprocessing facility, would also begin in the first years of
project implementation and would be completed by 1992. With the
assistance of the project, rural electrification would be
completed to the village center level. Extension to the village
and household level would be paid for by the villages and
households and, in most cases, be undertaken after project
completion. Each household would receive building materials and
technical assistance for the construction of rudimentary housing,
to oe built on a concrete pad measuring 8 by 10 meters, and an
underground cistern for drinking water. Adjoining each home
would be a small area for individual family vegetable gardens and
fruit trees. The Resettlement Division has completed detailed
layouts, which are available in the project files, for typical
towns, village centers, villages, and household plots.
9.        Project resettlement would be on a strictly voluntary
basis and competition for available slots is expected to be keen.
Selection of households will commence in early-1988 and will be
based on the criteria established during the first phase of the
Regional resettlement program (para 5). About 8,300 settler
households, or three-quarters of the total, will be selected from
upland rainfed areas and the other 2,500 households from densely
populated irrigated areas. Most households will relocate within
their own county to project areas situated no more than 50 to 100
km from their villages. A lesser number of households will
resettle to project areas in adjoining counties some 100 to 150
m from their villages. Typically, the first settlers would be
adult male fid ly members who would be employed in construction
of project works and land levelling. These workers would return



- 101 -
home during the harsh winter period and return in the spring with
their remaining family members to complete land preparation and
housing and plant the first year's crops. About 1200 households
will relocate during the first and fifth years of the project.
rhe majority of households are scheduled to move during the
second, third and fourth years. More than half the households
will relocate to the Guhai and Tongxin project areas. Scheduling
of relocation and completion of social services at the town,
village centers, and village levels are detailed in Table 2.
10.       Household Income.  The typical settler household will
have an average annual per capita income of less than Y80 or, for
a family of five, a household income of Y400 or less. Through
transfers in cash and in kind, the government currently augments
household income to a target level of Yl,000 -- thereby insuring
x-Aintenance of at least minimum standards of food intake, health
care, and physical well-being. Since on farm income is expected
to fall below this level during the first four years of
resettlement, household income will be maintained at a minimum of
Y1,000 through continued government transfers and project-paid on
farm employment. In addition, each household will receive farm
inputs, including seed and other plarting materials and chemical
fertilizer, and tools during the first year of resettlement.
Loans of up to Yn,000 per household will also be made available
for the joint purchase of small tractors and attachments. These
loans would be repaid without interest over a period of 15 years,
including 10 years grace. Based on these standards and crop
budgets for newly irrigated areas, a farm model for a typical
family of five farming 1.35 ha of land indicates that annual net
household income would steadily increase from Yl,000 during the
first four years after resettlement to Y2,840 at full development
in year 13 (paras 6.2 to 6.3 and Annex 3 Table 6).



- 102 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
CHINA
NOUrHI   IffISATCN PNOhEC
Raaetlnet Ceata ad IsheduLing
Caender Year                   1                       11          16           15         TYtL
No. of SettLers (Persons)
Towagxn                                0        2416         31           10             0        woo
0        gm0         Om0             0           0        1305
Langpizlt ienS                      166          75          5575        1350                     46
Jlnyintnn                                          0            0        1600         30          5og0
Totat                      500       14175        100         15871        3300        Sa1n
Irrigation Area DevoLopient the)
Tongxln                                0          U47        1300        am6             0        gm07
Ouaha1                                 0        1467         158            0            0        am0
LengptzlLlang                          0                        067 1547 
Jinyinten                              0            0
TotaL                      807        33           473         40            m         1S40
Cost Summry IY mLn)
RaLoostion                           0.5         3.5          4.6         4.0          0.0        13.6
Fer- Inputs                          0.8         1.4          1.0         1.6          01          5.4
Foar  mehinery I tooLo               1.0         6.5          a.l 6.1                  1.9         1.7
vater uppLy                          0.1         0.7          0.9         0.l          0.1         3.7
Ru nl*t aetricitV                   a0.4         1.Q          0.0         0.3          0.l         3.4
So010L Lurvicoo                      0.7         2.8          2.9 3.5                  S.o        11.0
Other engineering ooto               0.2         1.0          1.0         1.0          0.3         3.5
PhysicaL contingooy                  0.2         1.1          1.1         1.1          0.9         9.7
Price contingenoy                    0.2         1.1          1.J         1.1          0.9         490
Total                      3.7        19.2         21.2       1.9          0.0
Completi0n of 801iaL Serviose (No.)
Ad.inistrativo butIdingas
Town                                 1           2           -           -            -            3
VitLage Center                      -            a            9           0            1          n
Health Centers a CLinical
Town                                -                                     I -  1      -            1
ViLoLge Center                       2           7            S           8           -           n
80hootOt 
Secondary                           -I--                                                           3
Primry                               2                                    9     8         3
Culturat Centers                      -           -             1           2           _            S
Agro-taoh. Extension Centers           2           1           -           -            _            3
An1tea  Huobendry Station              1            1           1          -            -
Agroa1ndustry Enterprises
Tmo n                                                         1           1            1
VIlLoge Center                       2           7            7           8            3          U



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Project File
A. General Raports and Reference Materials
*A.1   Hetao Irrigation Area Rehabilitation Project, Inner Mongolia
*A.2   Agricultural Geography of Inner Mongolia
*A.3   China's Statistical Yearbook, 1986
*A.4   Agricultural Statistical Yearbook, 1986
*A.5   China Natural Geography Map Series
*A.6   Villages in Progress in Ningxia
B. Proiect Preparation Reports and Related Documents
Hstao:
*B.1   Pre-appraisal  Report of Hetao Irrigation Project as
prepared by Nei Monggol Water Resources Design Institute
(Two volumus and tables).
*B.2   Estimates for agricultural component prepared by the Ba League
Agriculture Department.
*B.3   Project economic analysis prepared by Nei Monggol Design Institute.
*B.4   Preliminary  environmental  impact studies  report  on
Wuliangsuhai Lake Hetao prepared by the Environmental Hydrogeology
Research Institute, Ministry of Urban, Rural Construction
and Environmental Protection .
B.5 Environmental Impact Assessment by D. Messersmith.
Yinnan
*B.6   Feasibility Report of Yinnan Irrigation Project prepared by Ningxia
project authority including annex on agriculture and settlement.
*B.7   Separate design reports for Guhai, Tongxin, Langpiziliang and
Jinyintan irrigation subareas by Ningxia Water Resources Design
Institute
*B.8   Settlement Plan for Guhai, Tongxin, Langpiziliang and Jinyintan
irrigation subareas.
*B.9   Proposals for Engineering and Agricultural studies of Yinbei Area.
*B.10 Summary of Survey of Settlers in Ningxia by the Population
Research institute, Ningxia Academy of Social Sciences.
*   Written in Chinese



- 104-                                                 Chart 1
CHIA
ITlBl SR ICASg  PROC
NI-    oEl Irrigation Aace - s
|el Moo~ael Water Resources Sures
tinistraeion       n  narn  Kacas~
Pisanina       Cn-Psz. and Pasture Irri.tion
lae Construction  , Soll fAd Water Conseation
Degign gainerin4  Rsearch   Water Ibsures  *rolo-   $g t    Water                      Technca    Hatc1s  5ott nd             sydiaulic
Snutl-  Constfe-    Institute  Secondry Oad   gical         Suroaus     | Resources   workers      SuppLy      Water          nehLneir
cute   etlon Bureau              Vocatlnal       Genral   1 H.uanghe      Pasture      Schools     Station    Conservation   works
Colleges         StatLon   2iongshan      Planng                              Statieon
3.0Dngkou   | Unit
Puempina
Station   I
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Da Leasue Water Resources                                             Bateo Irrigation Area Manaent
3 @iau'1                             Ceneral a                                  ,&12
Personnel                Manasmene                                    Hydrate   ststion            3seareh Center
Mainistrat ion            Science asiA Edue-tion                       I salinit        1t Aomarimnt Stations
unsnanc                   Pastur Areas                                Politcal Offtol
Enaineeri"      _ 1         ell Drilling                                 ter Conarol Center         Irrition/D lcinasa
flood Con rol                                                                . h      n     _
Ins   _ insrin  an sn      ..A&unsJsLna
Llbhe  Water  Water    hydrology   Sydro-         Water Ressur!os          I           I      i
Water  & Soil Resour-  Station       aechanical   Survey Dssr-          Main Trunk  Main   first  Llberation  Yon6jL  cang  Wulate
Reso- Coser- cos Re-                 Works        Teas                  Canal        Trunk  Canal  Sluico       Canal  Caal  Canal
urces  vntlon  search                Team                                            DTLn   *Gale
School Station Instituto
County Water                                                                         a
Resources Bureaus                                            73 maneen  Offleos
7)                                                           7" *         
21E Managemne Sections   *
|       Operation end
TovnshplpViliag* Water                                                     I  ,      Matene
Resource  Station                                                        I         expenditures
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .
Water Lees
Water User-
rcoups ' * ^ ^ * ^ * ^ ^ * ^ ^ a ^ a ^ ^ a ^ ^ ^
------ Lndlcates Technical advice
11 Bandles coustruction. water distribution, salinity control blow LateraLs.
12  BandLes constretion, water distribution, salinity cotrol down to and incLudin  Laterals.



CH^ -   gm                             chart 2
ELfl*zi  ZIrsIGArIa    hftCieef
rimmi       o-fm          SmiL a    SLem..       Mater         CuhaL   QIaMAS  Qiusam   CaaL    mulne    Teo"LL SO""  TeJja
A" Cer-   mator           Mater     and          Reseuscee     PU        CAalI  CaMIAl    C_act  Cave    CaML    CSrnL  Cm"l
trit"tieft    eaes        Ceasw-   Ud ea-        Namge-        Irsit$g-  Dept.   D"t. 12    _e         ,.    Dei       Det   Sept
vaties    tLe          seat Dept    tILe                        St
l   7t D.  Z.                             /
matew       Mater                I                                                                     * 
Rs&~-       tesem-        Mates      Mater                                                             *         C
Gea  M       a  Ec i-   and         Reoucs                               * 
11ir-       aeesi         5.1l      Raeseach                                              s8 Ca        I     t OffUie
p_ew        Dpt.          Comes-   Station                                                             a         e
se-.                      atte                                                                                   a
station                                                                               *
C azt L   tt  *t"s  It t@gi&L                                                       *         *~~~~~~~o 
Contea"        Repair   &POe        MateriaL                                                                              a
nydzelsoocat   Warheop  Howlt-  SpL y
st t                                Company                                                                     a         a
r                    D9t.. 
X 1|4t&ts0"                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  a
I suy~tateoas                                                                                                   a 
.        a
20 euve                                                                                                         a 
ntatieaa 
yU an Prate tue Mater aseee4                               . 
j a   UsLgcc  o     3au                         Ito1         ma. _e at $etiomo
SelL cnd Mater C occlvaia  O,fti.                  C 
V/
Operation ad
rI                      I                                             (        *_ .....  
I                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I *  aepeadtue  1'
lhrnm.  Rhegvuf    Qlagtegmi: Wch-a   Llnga    Yaneh    Teaat                       C
C&AM      Cemty        City         City       Cmmty   Cety   CmtY                  a
VW        NW           Wm           MUP    Wm    MD    WmD
51e    Section        DLvLsLon      DivisLon  Sectio   S"ati   S. ti too
IT                                                               T I
I                                       'a
TawsahsIVULasge Mates
ReacusG   SI
w Mater fees
I                           ~~~~I a
Mates  <------ ---1--
Uses      s  - -.e . .
LniLeatos tseehotea edviae
toseqiatug u mq*ida ?TASao iss4aties subarsea
12 tSeede  Jbi_ata  gaitt  iLiet  fw_  st Snk Can.a a                     Ld Lsil    _  iLseatien
Ure Set TSc     CaL
Is f  t ruiaasies cea sel depatmnts have a ctotat comend arg  of 256,000 ha. Letgh of
*eL  &male * "5 be.
14 &lew Sctan    caual. 0 od N charges covered by cuaty budget



- 106 -
Chart 3
NeLm   rcosgS             onc
ministry of *teAMS                        man
state Planningo el Otaniarea Os3.aaSLOM.a
Rlegional, Go"
nw  reen   S ch'l          w tc~ReItsourcee
Co_n    *encie     4eanes             lurceu   |                        - Cer4dnte project iOplanen:uion
Re_Iteeal Preject        Ia LeoSulcOimUt.ss
------              Managemet Off  C       - rie  teebecal standards far
_______________des ---ign. co4stru.giln. O 1 m
j                     -a TL-&ren   TA & tt 4tSisi
*       -liaise  with LWRM  end IDA
116ta  Irrigation                   - Coordinate use of equipent and
AreSelea Haft"gen t                   transfer Of funds. materLals an
Corn.   Aaene    AseneLs              _         '.eneral Duau I              Labor _om    counties
?ete  Project        &r'Ana  for on-site inpection
Nanasemen Off L       beteog  fta-L pament
|roJeet Coor"tw ----------------        --------------C                    a    a
Ce_ttsee  
Immbahu. LLvw  Wuuan 
WuleeeqL n county 
(IMOtVa) CewrVAUS*t
e  I    r   I      S      <                  ,i       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Contract  m enran  and
Pin..  Ico guen. | | Tech' |.      |       hF H>4r                I     construction suparvisLon
|Co_. |A| Zenels   Asenc                        County Project         - coordnate wLth serleulture
Neas,eusat Office       departent re: proviLsion ef
*                                                  . ,  _____,,,-------   fertLiLsar and other agricuL-
I        I                             ,    IItUral npus
| teolect C4ogoints ----_-___. ....................
I~~~ [e_ale  Agiulue I?iI
-        - T     -- T  ---'------T-----------T------------T
Foresrtry 



- 107 -                                                   Chart 4
NO?3UI 111tATION PUOJCT
IIii'gmi*   Oreeiaptien for Proecte Maaat
141ntser of*1              |
State Pl nnm Coo_lssion _
Corn.   Agencie    Aseniee             *urecu                             - CoordInate project ipLemwntatton
te_ Ibgioaal ?roJoct      *n L.aguelcouniLes
_____    _____   m8e  OffIc - rcevLw technicaL standards for
-_--_---_ -----_-_ __                              design. constructLon. 0 & M
| Project Coordatn                                                      - adinSter TA S training
comiLttaft                                                        - dlabutts  t
- reviwW equiLpme   Lses.
4"u to bLds
- LLaisen with WMD  and IDA
Yinnn Prefecturel                                                            - piatui    resettt_.nt actLvitiets
IYtVna  Prefecture                    - Coordinate use of equipment and
Piog.   con.       Tzeh l              lWter Pecurce.                          ttranfer of funds. mteorisls and
CoA^gncte    ^g  clexnd tleceric    _   E   Labor  _me  counties
Power  ureau    PTofectu & Projec   - arrange for on-site inspection
;A AeeMet tff ice       before tfiL papmnt
-----------  -----------                        - cootdinatel  county resettlement
Project Coordlnat    -----------                                              activts
Coueett t
G Cuan  HaLun. LlnSwu |
|TongxLn. 2hongnLng 
County GCornonts  
,PMO Functlons
Couaty                            - Contrrct management and
construction supervision
| Corn.| A.nieL@   |Ae4 nci                     |County Project          - coordinate vigh agriculture
| Iaagemwent Office        department re*  provtsion of
-------------------            |               fortLlLszr and other agricuL-
tural inputs
|Project Coordin et   --------------
Comttetes                                         I 
-------------------- land-
|  stelnq|   nrX|       ;      4rc         leur



-, _ 1a    _DC  - i*s         a n "                s                                            -                r-
*~~~ ~~~     ~       ~ t  *  u  * ta  -s    U                         W          *   *             4
*           l       ;  .       -    -  '            S         g   a             .5 *       =     -    .             
*   -    m                 5    s c                                                                                         L m   
. _      _               I S " -    _                                                   I
[n     I g   _                                                          j
_  1 ffi=    -  -               -        .-            -3  -'   5    .~ I _
a~~~~                               
=D                 11~~~~~~~.5                                  15   in r
i~~~~~~~~~ --                                      W. i;10q                                    WM  : ;[[1  t[4 :i
is~~~~~~~~~
a .       .                                                     ,                                         1                                  C
S                                              i C
qo   C a                        -   5                             -     -
i !- _  _                      _                                                         _ _ _ _    - -    - - - -  - -
~ .- - ---    ---  
Is a ~  a       U                                              S                   *    I                          II  
:-                                                                         -  -    -_-    -    -    -
*3  U    -  S  -  -~~~~~~~~-                                  -     -     -    -     -    -     -- -            -  -
- = -  S                                             S~~~~~~~~ -     -     -                          ---         
a    a          -    -             -~~~~~~~~~~~-                        -    -                    ---         
a      -             - -        - - S-                          - -
-.         -          - - ----                            -----5
--a       -                                                                                                                           
----               --------------                                             -                                       -    -    -r
Is                                       -  - I   -  - - - - - - - - - - -~~~~I 
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - ~ ~ -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20286
105                                                                          .       OO,XtIA              L0Q /tltM4fOKF
CHINA                                                                      4re...-.
M~~~~p  i ~~~~~~OF
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                  'N;, o
NEI MONGGOL - NINGXIA HUI                                                                                                          JAP'NA
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS                                                                      --
_ -        Project Locotions
0      Towns and Cities                                                                 1        00c              . o.
3     Province Copitols              I-
Roods                         h                                      .                   N                 KM'
'-~ *     Railroads                    ]a                                                      P Dg Rno
nULrLrus  Greot Woll                                                                         lo,                           Hohhot
Rivers                                                                           Dn/
Province Boundaries     Deng I
_40'          -       Internotional Boundories                    For delad see IBRD 20287
0Dongsheng
r   x -   *-             0         IfWc<  Wuhai \
N                    MONGGOL
. a,     .e                      ..                                                          N h
iB-D 2028,                                                          \
-giin                                              \
~~~          NI ~~~~~~~G          XiATo Tcnyuoo
uln S HA                    A NX X I
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ro Lanzhou-'                                                                                     Yan'J n
To tonzhou                           \,
\>   (           ;uyuan f G  A  N \5 U
Pingliang                                                   he    j           X        -a
35'       ;        A     I I, f    U            )                g             Tongchuan
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Xion                                     Weinan
0 (/   40      8,0    120    160 KILOMETERS
F0        To oHonzhong To Mionyong          25      50      75      100 MILES             1104
DECEMBER 1987



IBRD 20287
W    TEIR                   T  EQ PJ                       N  Q  I
X ) >S jjJ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ On-farm L~~~~~~~~~~~~oy1Saped Armos                                                                                                                                      ?+.> 
K '    ! '                                                                                                                  l, 5   \ //12   /  |  '5   /t    Pum,ping StosSon                                                                    a o
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~118  0418 / .8 Jj   N sr   CANAt S .g
/  //t/  Q  v  i/   / ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~      -                           To be up_raded onder projeot                           ;\XI- 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___ //i                                                            Po/-Einting;
\ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~ ~118 /511   85OIOItwsK M^s      AI       DRAINS:                                                                                _______________
OUQi                     LD                               Et/ -4-Tobeupgradedundr proleI                                                                                     |  L1u )                                        /15.1 ,  -
ID   /  Po/  -   EKinting                                                           *L0    Aa,nntT  A   N       Q
/J//    <    /   /                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ~~                   ~ ~~~~~~Rood.  KILOMETERS  '~'i'  LK
Dengk  1  </ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~          r    Roilroods                           ,                  ssLes                  2c       as   Si    t ;"*  -' ro,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---I-Ralrad  0 5  0    2  2  3
T  8 /   Sonshenggong Diversion weir                                                <3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ County Seots                                                                 . OL,,  .
2/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  Counly Boundoriesns                                                                                 a L s               s      r +vn l^-So  :s4               o.os ,--,u~
rAa                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Boundaries  1111110111 111I1r1 1111110111100111111 Ljlon  l-101001 Ucsel  no.=         .,. a
rIllOlOll~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~--- International Boundaries                                                                                                                 -fLL 
OECE M  bER    198'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                                                                               C M E   9



*I, ONcO  )l             .'6o EOL,                           T Y,Ta,, r,,,, TRE,o,,C^                                                                  TO O ,o o/.'o
fOT ~~~~~.T Yh-oo ~
,, .   , Qb   , r  *'         \               C    ~~~~Q,ngtongo,o          ;
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~JINYINTAN
1!  H   r ~~~~~~~ ~~ 71   f       f    ~~~~~~~               GRAGPID LANG
-    <-'-000500.0                         (   ;:00  /                                             <I \
s              r;    /Z/  _ 8 C ' /       L     Z}      ~      *0     1                            \ I
NEI MONGGOL
WUZHONG'
CX            I TNXN                                 3                                         "\                      -.             \
ZHONGWEI                                      j
/                           0                                                                            )L 1'1/-   
. ,  J     T  t                  N           ~          ~ ~~~ G           XI                           N )(- 
T. J.\-                                                  <                       /                          -4                              iGANSU
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
NINGXIA YINNAN COMPONENT
IRRIGATION AREAS.
)W%$il4  E.skg
)  <}_ l4j   Es,tiog - to bh Doie&d oish
/r-fo-rm fli (18,300 ho.)
o.o-          o -iVio  ot (3.700 h..)
- N-s (1 4200 ho.)
ml0~SONI    *A'EA   CANAMS
To ho oodd -d poo
/                                                      . tO               A^^IIs    "z              D STo ho pgo.d rode protd
O, ___S__   1,0___ _    2,0   25 M_O_ _ ETE_S_                                                    PUMPING  STATIONS:
0   5    10       IS        20^IIIS was           tY                               2     CoMPeo
GototL  G    WolF
COOty B-.o3oood
TiG ..                                                    T.n                                                      Bo.orD



