Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17996
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1885-CHA)
June 2, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$0.121 (1998)
1987 (Appraisal)  US$1 = Y 3,71
1988            US$1 = Y 3.71
1989            US$1 = Y 3.71
1990            US$1 = Y 4.72
1991            US$1 = Y 5.22
1992            US$1 = Y 5.38
1993            US$1 = Y 5.45
1994            US$1 = Y 8.70
1995            US$1 = Y 8.31
1996            US$1 = Y 8.30
1997            US$1 = Y 8.27
1998            US$1 = Y 8.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR  -       Economic Rate of Return
ICB   -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR   -      Implementation Completion Report
NCB  -       National Competitive Bidding
O&M  -       Operation and Maintenance
PMO  -       Project Management Office
SAR  -       Staff Appraisal Report
VHF  -       Very High Frequency
Vice President     Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager     Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Task Manager       Lang S. Tay, Consultant, EASRD



. . .                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- 111 -
CONTENTS
PREFACE ...........................................                                                            iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................9
A. Project Objectives and Description ............................................9
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................................                     10
C. Project Impact ...........................................                                        17
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................................                   18
E. Project Sustainability ..........................:                                                19
F. IDA Performance .........................                                                         20
G. Borrower Performance .........................                                                    20
H. Future Operation .........................                                                        20
I. Assessment of Outcome .........................                                                   21
J. Key Lessons Learned .........................                                                    21
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .........................                                                          23
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ......................................................               23
Table 2:  Related Bank Group Loans/Credits ................................................. 24
Table 3:  Project Timetable ......................................................                  25
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........ 25
Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 26
Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 27
Table 6a: Key Indicators for Project Operations ............................................. 28
Table 6b: Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................ 29
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ......................................................          30
Table 8a: Project Costs ......................................................                       31
Table 8b: Project Financing ......................................................                  32
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................  33
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................            34
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 35
Table 12: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs (All Components) .............................. 35
Table 13: IDA  Resources: Missions ......................................................             35
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 37
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................... 38
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ......................................................  46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforanance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1885-CHA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Northern Irrigation
Development Project in China, for which a credit in the amount of SDR 72.7 million
(US$103 million equivalent) was approved on March 22, 1988 and made effective on
January 9, 1989.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, 22 months beyond the date
originally envisioned, as a result of delays with project procurement. The credit was
completely disbursed and the final credit disbursement took place on March 30, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by missions comprising Lang S. Tay (Task Manager) and
Qun Li (Consultant Economist) of Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
(EASRD), East Asia and Pacific Region. The Report was reviewed by Richard Scobey,
China Country Coordinator, EASRD and Geoffrey Fox, Sector Manager, EASRD. The
Borrower provided comments, which are included as Annexes A and C to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was completed following the various IDA ICR missions,
and is based on materials in the project files and meetings with project staff in the field.
The Borrower contributed with views and data requested, its own evaluation of project's
execution, and comments on the draft ICR.



v -
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1885-CHA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the project were to increase the efficiency and profitability
of agricultural production in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and to alleviate
absolute poverty in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. These objectives were achieved
through: (a) rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage facilities on
210,000 hectares (ha) of existing low-yielding cropland in Hetao Irrigation Area of Inner
Mongolia, complemented by agricultural support services of production inputs and
extension services; and (b) upgrading and completing irrigation and drainage works on
existing 22,000 ha and developing new irrigated land of 14,200 ha in Ningxia, and land
settlement of 11,000 poor families on the newly developed irrigated land, complete with
infrastructure and basic social services.
2.    The Hetao Component in Inner Mongolia consisted of improvement of
210,000 ha of irrigated area through canal/drain system construction and improvement,
including construction of canal structures, canal lining, pumping stations and provision of
machinery and equipment for improved operation and maintenance. The component also
included agricultural support inputs and strengthened extension services, staff training
and technical assistance to strengthen soil and water management.
3.    The Yinnan Component in Ningxia consisted of construction and improvement of
a total of 36,200 ha of irrigation area through canal system construction and
improvement, provision of machinery and equipment for improved system operation and
maintenance, and staff training and technical assistance to upgrade technical and
management skills. The component also included resettlement of 11,000 poor farm
households on 14,200 ha of newly developed irrigated land, complete with basic
infrastructure and social services, and a prefeasibility study for the development of
Yinbei Irrigation Area covering some 130,000 ha of existing cultivated land and another
100,000 ha for potential irrigation development and land settlement.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The two project components(Hetao and Yinnan) were successfully completed.
The Yinnan Component, completed on schedule, exceeded its original physical targets,
especially the improvement and development of irrigation areas and the resettlement of



- V1-
poor farm families on the newly irrigated land. The Hetao Component, substantially
completed by the end of 1994, was extended for two years to complete some of its
outstanding on-farm work and the installation of a water management monitoring system
on the Trunk Canal. Due to inflation and progressive depreciation of the Yuan against the
US dollar, the total project cost on completion was 17.3 percent or Y 170.4 million higher
than the SAR estimate of Y 983.1 million. However, expressed in US dollars, the total
project cost was 9.2 percent or US$21.6 million lower than the original SAR estimated
cost of US$243.3 million. Counterpart funding for the project was somewhat constrained
initially, and continued to be a minor problem for several years. However, overall,
counterpart funding was considered satisfactory.
5.    On irrigation improvement and development, both components completed their
respective physical construction and achieved the target areas. The Hetao Component
completed improvement of the proposed 210,000 ha under eight main canal command
areas, including improvement of the 230-km Trunk Canal and the 202-km Trunk Drain
and construction of a new 100 cubic meter per second (m3/s) drainage pumping station at
the downstream end of the Trunk Drain. The Yinnan Component completed improvement
and development of a total of 36,253 ha, 100.1 percent of SAR estimate, of irrigation
areas (14,351 ha new and 21,902 ha improvement) in the four project irrigation areas.
Many of the work quantities have exceeded the SAR estimates.
6.   IDA's performance in project preparation, supervision and management was
considered adequate and satisfactory. This was partly facilitated by the Borrower's
adequate project preparation and well-managed implementation and partly by continuity
of IDA staff in the project preparation and supervision. Both the regional governments
also took great interest and commitment in their respective project components. In
particular, Ningxia implemented successfully the resettlement program of 11,287 poor
households on the newly developed irrigated land as a long-term regional government
intervention to reduce absolute poverty among the poor residing in the arid mountainous
areas.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Overall Finding. The project's overall outcome is "Satisfactory" with the Yinnan
Component rated as "Highly Satisfactory" and Hetao Component as "Satisfactory" due to
the latter two-year delay in completing the water management monitoring system on the
Trunk Canal. Both the components achieved the targets on irrigation area improvement
and development, the main thrust of the project. However, the most significant result
achieved was the resettlement of 11,287 poor households from the arid mountain areas in
Ningxia on the newly developed 14,350 ha irrigated land. Absolute poverty prior to
resettlement had been practically eradicated and replaced with higher incomes and a
better quality of life. Agricultural production in both components had increased as
projected, providing higher incomes to the project beneficiaries. The average income per
capita increased by 264 percent from Y 576 to Y 2,097 in the Hetao Component. The
average income for new settlers under the resettlement program of Ningxia Component



- vii -
was even more remarkable at 352 percent from Y 325 to Y 1,469. The overall economic
rate of return (ERR) for the project was 28.9 percent compared to 20 percent estimated at
appraisal.
8.    Project Impacts. The Ningxia Component has transformed some 14,350 ha of
desert wasteland into sustainable irrigated cropland, served by a network of roads, 6 new
townships and 30 settlement villages, supporting a population of about 54,384 people.
The new settlement areas have become new centers of growth of rural economy and
socioeconomic activities that, in turn, had provided indirect benefits to some 100,000
farmers residing in 17 adjoining township areas through the agricultural support services
and social services completed under the project. The resettlement of poor households has
also relieved pressure on the environmentally degraded land in the old villages where the
settlers came from. With reduced population, the old villages could now manage the
resource-poor land more rationally, with financial support remitted by the resettled
farmers who have now more incomes. In the Hetao Component, the high water table
levels, primary causes for waterlogging and secondary soil sanitation, have now been
controlled and lowered, and the soil salinity progressively reduced through the
comprehensive drainage system constructed and better irrigation management achieved.
This has led to increasing productivity of the land in the project area as monitored by the
42 soil/water and 21 groundwater level monitoring stations. The potential increase in the
salinity level in the Wuliangsuhai Lake will continue to be monitored for the long-term
impact. The increased food crop production in the two component areas had provided
substantial increase in crop residues and dry matters, which, in turn, spurred expansion of
livestock and increased production of livestock products, providing additional income to
project beneficiaries.
9.    Sustainability. The project is "Likely Sustainable." The project was well-
prepared and constructed to the desired designs and standards. An operation and
maintenance (O&M) system for the completed works has also been in place. Agricultural
production and yields have reached, or exceeded in some cases, the targets projected and
would be sustained through the agricultural support services in place. The settlers in the
new settlement areas are determined and dedicated to achieving a better standard of
living. Finally, although the project has been completed, the two regional governments
are committed to supporting the project through strong incentives for agricultural
production and additional financial resources for infrastructure and social services.
10.   Future Operations. Future operations prepared by both the regional governments
include: (a) strengthening the township governments and village administrative units in
the new settlement areas with available resources to guide and organize new settlers in
large-scale agricultural production (Yinnan Component); (b) continuing promoting and
disseminating new production technologies, based on the results of research and scientific
studies, through extension, demonstrations, and contracting with farmers for maximum
production and returns, including rationalizing cropping patterns geared to market
demands (both components); (c) collecting irrigation water charges, with appropriate
increases, from project beneficiaries to meet the full annual O&M costs (both



- viii -
components); and (d) continuing the soil/water monitoring in the project area and the
salinity level monitoring in the Wuliangsuhai Lake for their long-term impacts, and
establishing the Wuliangsuhai Lake Basin Management Commission to exercise overall
management of the water resources in the lake, including control of water pollution by
urban centers and small local industries (Hetao Component).
11.   Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned include: (a) poverty reduction through
land settlement is a viable long-term intervention when planned and executed
systematically; (b) successful land settlement requires careful selection of settlers based
on well-informed process, suitable settlement sites, provision of essential basic
infrastructure and social services, and government preferential policy incentives and
support in the initial years of settlement; (c) appropriate cost recovery policy over a
reasonable period from settlers will induce a sense of responsibility and obligation to
succeed in the new environment; (d) water-saving technologies should be used in
irrigation areas supplied with multistage pumping of water at a high cost so as to
maximize the economic return and use of water; (e) consultant services provided jointly
by foreign and local consultants were economical and efficient, as evident in the planning
and design of the Hetao Trunk Canal Water Management Monitoring System; and (f)
foreign exchange losses can be minimized by timing procurement of imported goods at
the time when foreign exchange rates were stable.



-9 -
CHINA
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1885-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The main objectives of the project were to increase the efficiency and profitability
of agricultural production in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and to alleviate
absolute poverty in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. These objectives were achieved
through: (a) rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage facilities on 210,000
hectares (ha) of existing low-yielding cropland in the Hetao Irrigation Area of Inner
Mongolia, complemented by agricultural support services of agricultural inputs and
extension services; and (b) upgrading and completing irrigation and drainage works on
existing 22,000 ha and developing new irrigated land of 14,200 ha in Ningxia and land
settlement of 11,000 poor families on the newly developed irrigated land complete with
infrastructure and social services.
2.    The main features of the project were as follows:
o Hetao Component, Inner Mongolia.
(a)   Improvement of irrigation and drainage facilities serving 210,000 in four counties
of the Hetao Irrigation Area through channel excavation, canal lining, replacement
of old canal lining, bridges and control structures, and construction of pumping
stations;
(b)   Improvement of irrigation system operation and maintenance (O&M) through
provision of machinery and equipment;
(c)   Provision of agricultural support inputs and strengthened extension services; and
(d)   A training and technical assistance program designed to strengthen water
management at all levels and to improve soil salinity control and management
techniques.
* Yinnan Component, Ningxia.
(a)   Construction and improvement of irrigation and drainage facilities on 36,200 ha
in four irrigation areas through channel excavation and installation of control
structures, pumping stations and power lines;



- 10-
(b)   Improvement of irrigation system operation and maintenance through provision of
machinery and equipment;
(c)   Resettlement of 11,000 poor farm families on the newly developed 14,200 ha,
including provision of building materials, agricultural inputs and machinery,
water supply, electricity, and basic social services;
(d)   A feasibility study of irrigation and agricultural development in the Yinbei Area
including preparation of a development plan to improve 130,000 ha of existing
cultivated land and to extend irrigation and drainage facilities to an additional
100,000 ha; and
(e)   A training and technical assistance program designed to upgrade the technical and
managerial skills of the Water Resources Bureau and the Project Management
Office staff, and to train new settlers in irrigated agriculture.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General
3.    The two project components (Hetao and Yinnan) were successfully completed,
achieving the desired objectives and results. The Yinnan Component in Ningxia was
completed as scheduled with some of the physical targets exceeding the original SAR
estimates, especially the improvement and development of irrigation areas and the
resettlement of poor farmn families on the newly developed irrigated land. The Hetao
Component in Inner Mongolia was virtually completed by the end of 1994 except for
some on-farm irrigation works and the Trunk Canal Water Management Monitoring
System; the latter was delayed for nearly two years due to the complexity encountered in
the procurement process (see para. 17). The total project cost at completion exceeded the
original SAR estimates by Y 170.4 million or 17.3 percent expressed in local currency,
and reduced by US$21.6 million or 9.2 percent expressed in US dollars due to
depreciation of the Yuan against the US dollar over the project implementation period. A
breakdown of the two components is as follows:
PROJECT COST IN Y/US$ MILLION
Y million                         US$ million
SAR Estimate At Completion         SAR Estimate At Completion
Hetao Component               664.3       729.9                   157.2       133.3
Yinnan Component              318.8       423.6                    77.1        79.4
Total Project               983.1      1,153.5                 234.3       212.7



- 11 -
Tables 8A and 8B show the total project costs in Yuan and US dollars estimated at SAR
and at completion.
Physical Results
4.    Irrigation and Drainage.
•  Hetao Component: Major irrigation and drainage works were constructed
from 1989 to 1994, involving some 168.4 million cubic meters (m3) of
earthworks, 328,000 m3 of masonry stone works and 258,800 mi3 of concrete
works. The completed works included: (a) improvement and enlargement of
the 1 67-km Trunk Drain, construction of a new drainage pumping station (100
m3/s) and rehabilitation of the existing pumping station (30 m3/s) at
Honghebu; (b) improvement and upgrading of the Trunk Canal with canal
realignment, slopes and banks protection and stabilization, thereby raising its
capacity from 480 m3/s to 520 m3/s; (c) improvement of irrigation and
drainage networks under eight main canal command areas, covering 29 main
and submain canals (550 km), 154 branch canals (820 km), 26 main and
submain drains (502 km) and 137 branch drains (734 km), complete with
numerous control structures, bridges, culverts and pumping stations for
irrigation and drainage; (d) on-farm irrigation and drainage facilities, complete
with farm roads and windbreaks to serve 210,000 ha of existing cropland; and
(e) installation of a VHF (900 MHz) communication system covering the
whole Hetao Irrigation Area and a water management monitoring system
(SCADA) on the Trunk Canal to enhance O&M of the whole irrigation area.
*  Yinnan Component: Ningxia completed improvement and new construction
of irrigation works in the four project irrigation areas, serving a total area of
36,253 ha (new development 14,351 ha and improvement existing 21,902 ha).
or 100.1 percent of SAR estimate. Most of the work quantities have exceeded
the SAR estimates. Major works completed included 37 main and branch
canals/drains totaling 227 km, 17 pumping stations, 1,104 control structures,
13 rural roads totaling 202 km, 254 km of high-tension and 243 km of low-
tension power lines. On-farm works completed included 5,200 km lateral and
sublateral canals, 2,800 km lateral and sublateral drains, 14,500 control
structures, 255 km lined canals, 1,525 km farm roads, and land leveling of
27,630 ha.
5.    Agricultural Support Services (Hetao Component). To improve agricultural
production and strengthen support services, a total of about Y 42 million (94 percent of
SAR estimate) was expended on seven subcomponents: quality seed production and
processing; crop protection; agrimechanization and machinery services; adaptive research
and extension; afforestation; dairy cattle and agricultural inputs. The results achieved
included (a) production of 1,910 tons of quality seeds for wheat and corn, 350 tons for
pasture, establishment of four seed production networks, 800 mu seed farms and 10 sets



- 12-
of seed processing equipment; (b) agrimechanization strengthened through 329 sets of
deep-plowing machines, 575 units of seed-sowing machines, 1,348 sets of various
agrimachinery implements and attachments, and 2 backhoe excavators; (c) 16 township
agritechnical extension stations were constructed and about 2.3 million person-sessions or
77,250 person-months of extension training were conducted for farmers in crop
production and animal husbandry, including about 32 percent of the training sessions
given to women; (d) afforestation of 2,810 ha forest belts, 5.7 million trees planted as
windbreaks and 4.4 million fruit trees; (e) 350 heads of dairy cattle and 5,500 square
meters (m2) of cattle sheds; and (f) agricultural production inputs of 13,000 tons of
imported DAP fertilizer and 1,700 tons of raw materials for manufacturing plastic film.
6.    Resettlement (Yinnan Component). The resettlement subcomponent for poor
farm households on the 14,350 ha of newly developed irrigated land in Ningxia was
highly successful. A total of 11,287 households and 54,384 persons (against 11,000
households and 54,100 persons planned in SAR) were voluntarily resettled in 30 villages
under 6 townships (against 26 villages and 3 townships planned in SAR). Only a few
settlers gave up and returned to their old villages (69 families in 1989, 27 families in
1990, 24 families in 1991 and none thereafter). Infrastructure and social services provided
for the settlers included roads, water supply (by 8 tubewells and 9,955 water cisterns),
rural electricity supply, 29 primary and 5 secondary schools with about 7,000 students in
attendance, 5 township hospitals, 23 village health centers and clinics, 6 cultural centers,
5 agrotechnical extension stations, 4 township and 30 village agroindustry stations. About
67 percent (7,363 households with a population of 36,782 people) of the new settlers are
Islamic Hui minority people who were subsistence farmers located in the resource-poor
mountain areas prior to resettlement. The majority of them have now settled in the new
irrigated areas and achieved increased and assured incomes, higher standards of living
and better quality of life.
Agricultural Benefits
7.    The project completed improving and expanding irrigation areas totaling
246,253 ha; the Hetao Component 210,000 ha and the Yinnan Component 36,253 ha.
Agricultural output, yields and production achieved for crops were higher than projected
at appraisal. The unit yields for various crops on the newly irrigated land have exceeded
substantially the SAR-projected yields at the full development year.
8.    The annual incremental production of major crops for Hetao and Yinnan are
summarized below:



- 13 -
(Unit: Tons)
Hetao Component                           Yinnan Component
Crop      SAR Estimate    Comple-   Increment        SAR Estimate    Comple-   Increment
Without       tiori                        Without        tion
Project      (1997)                        Project       (1997)
Wheat           189,000      441,270    252,270              6,720       53,140     46,420
Maize           115,830      272,250    156,420              6,280       83,730     77,450
Rice                 -             -          -             25,630       41,700     16,070
Soybean              -             -          -                98         4,004      3,906
Millet               -             -          -                82        11,442     11,360
Flax.             8,250       11,660      3,410
Oil crops        31,365       91,140     59,775               281         7,893      7,612
Vegetables      224,250      300,000     75,750
Table 6 of Part II shows the area cultivated and yields achieved for the Hetao and Yinnan
irrigation areas.
9.     The increased outputs frorn crop, forestry and livestock production resulted in
higher incomes for beneficiary farrn households. The annual gross value of incremental
production was estimated at about Y 416.5 million (Hetao) and Y 176.7 million (Yinnan)
for the food crops, Y 429.1 million (Hetao) and Y 86.3 million (Yinnan) for the cash
crops, Y 109.9 million (Hetao) and Y 339.7 million (Yinnan) for fruit and forestry
products, and Y 1.01 million (Yinnan) for aquatic products.
10.   Overall, agricultural production has exceeded the benefit targets and economic
rates of return. ERRs were recalculated for each subproject and component, using
production input costs and output prices provided by each of the project management
offices. The consolidated ERR for the whole project amounted to 28.9 percent, higher
than the estimated 20 percent at appraisal. Table 9 of Part II shows the detailed ERRs for
each subproject and component.
Rural Income and Poverty Reduction
11.   The project has increased incomes for 96,300 families in Hetao and 15,500
families in Yinnan, and reduced the incidence of absolute poverty among the 11,278 new
settler families resettled under the Yinnan Component. The financial analyses, based on
survey data from the Rural Socioeconomy Survey Team collected from predetermined
areas selected for monitoring from 1989 to 1997, show substantial increases in net
income per capita as follows:



- 14-
Net Income Per capita (Yuan)     % Increase
Pre-project    Post-project (1997)
Yinnan
(a) Average income for new settlers    325              1,469              352
(b) Islamic Hui settlers               327              1,494              357
Hetao                                  576              2,097              264
12.   The sampled surveys of farm incomes in the Hetao and Yinnan subproject areas
indicate that the income of farmers in the project area has surpassed the poverty line, and
the rural per capita income achieved for various farmer groups (especially for Hui
settlers) has exceeded substantially the SAR-projected income level at full development
year (11-13), which were estimated at Y 644 for average settler in Yinnan and Y 909 for
Hetao.
Other Socioeconomic Benefits
13.   Besides increasing incomes for farmers under the Hetao Component and
alleviating absolute poverty of settlers under the Yinnan Component, the project also
provided other socioeconomic benefits as follows:
*  Gender Dimensions. The project paid particular emphasis to the role of women in
development. Under the Hetao Component, 5 female officials were sent for a total of
3 person-months of overseas study tours, 36 female technicians were sent for two-
year professional training in local universities, 624 female technicians were given
short-term training covering 104 person-months in monitoring and evaluation, work
supervision, computer applications, agricultural production, animal husbandry and
orchard management. Some 115,600 female farmers were also given short-session
training on the application of new production technologies. Similarly, under the
Yinnan Component, some 34,900 female beneficiary farmers (48.5 percent of total)
also benefited from the various project activities-7,660 person-sessions in training
of agricultural production technologies and 25,890 female beneficiaries participated
in household economics training. Fifty-seven (32 percent) of the project management
staff at all levels were women.
•  Enhancement of Ethnic Tradition and Culture. A large number of voluntary
settlers in the Yinnan Component are Islamic Hui minority people. In the new
settlement areas, they are not only able to preserve their ethnic cultural traditions and



- 15 -
practices but further strengthen them by contributing funds, from their improved
incomes, for activities such as religious celebrations, building places of worship,
giving of alms, etc., which they could not afford in their old villages.
* Increased Level of Farm Mechanization. The increase in income from agricultural
activities has led to farmers buying agricultural machinery and equipment to do their
own cultivation, as well as providing services to other farmers on a fee basis. It is
estimated that farmer-owned agrimachinery increased by about 32 percent from 1988
to 1995 in the Hetao Component and 60 percent in the Yinnan Component.
Training and Technical Assistance
14.   Training: Training of project staff and farmer beneficiaries were satisfactorily
carried out under the two project components. Under the Hetao Component, 13 overseas
technical study tours were organized involving 80 project staff (including 4 women) for
41 person-months to the United States, Canada, France, Australia, Holland, Jordan,
Morocco and Pakistan. Five local study tours were also conducted, involving 41 persons
(including 3 female staff) to study other Bank Group-financed projects within China,
monitoring and evaluation, high-yield production techniques, and improvement of low-
and medium-yield farmlands. Seven overseas training involving 30 persons (including 2
female staff) were carried out at the ICB suppliers' facilities relating to specific
machinery and equipment. Seventy-six local training sessions were carried out for staff
covering 6,646 person-months (including 835 person-months for female staff) on various
technical topics. Training of farmer beneficiaries was conducted through 77,250 person-
months of extension training, including 24,720 person-months for female farmers. Eleven
seminars or workshops on specialized topics were also conducted covering 94 person-
months (including 15 person-months for female staff) for technician farmers. A total of
2,317,600 person days of farmer training was provided, which was 185 percent above the
SAR target. Under the Yinnan Component, 2,350 person-months (including 715 person-
months for female staff) of training were carried out for project staff on project
implementation, supervision, management, monitoring and evaluation, operation and
maintenance. Study tours, both overseas and local, completed covered 236 person-
months, including 26 person-months for female staff. Some 7,250 person-months
(including 2,560 person-months for female) of training were provided to the project
farmers through the agricultural extension programs. This was 168 percent above the
SAR target.
15.   Technical Assistance: The major items of technical assistance completed under
the project were: (a) Planning and design of the Trunk Canal Water Management
Monitoring System in the Hetao Component; and (b) Prefeasibility Study of the Yinbei
Area in the Yinnan Component. A US consulting firm in a joint venture with a local
consulting firm planned and designed the Hetao Trunk Canal Water Management
Monitoring System, which was installed at a total cost of US$1.3 million. The system,
using telemetry, SCADA and the VHF communication network, has enhanced overall
irrigation water management for the whole Hetao Irrigation Area. The prefeasibility study



- 16-
of the Yinbei Area in Ningxia was conducted using 90 person-months of local consultants
and specialists. The study covered a water conservancy and soil survey of about 4,130
km2, an engineering survey of the existing irrigation and drainage networks of 1,160 km,
2
and a hydrogeological survey of 3,500 km. Three pilot areas were established and 14
items of technical research were undertaken. This study was the single largest irrigation
area development study ever undertaken in Ningxia. The study has been reviewed and
approved by the Ministry of Water Resources and will provide valuable and
comprehensive data for development of the Yinbei Area in the future.
Environment Management
16.  In the Hetao Component, a monitoring program based on a mathematical model
was instituted to monitor and analyze the impact of drainage water on the changes in
salinity level of the water in the Wuliangshuhai Lake, which receives the main drainage
discharge from the Trunk Drain before discharging into the Yellow River. The
monitoring was contracted to the Comprehensive Hydrogeological Investigation and
Research Institute of the Ministry of Construction. So far, changes in salinity level
monitored are within the range expected, maintaining an average level of 2,000 mg/liter.
However, the improved drainage systems have brought about increased water pollution
caused by industrial and urban effluents discharged into the Lake, leading to seasonal
formation of algae, which can affect aquatic life in the lake. Control of water pollution by
industrial and urban effluents at point sources would be necessary and the Inner Mongolia
Regional Government is planning to set up a Wulianghsuhai Lake Basin Commission to
manage the overall water resources of the Lake on a long-term basis. On the improved
project area, soil and water monitoring have also been carried out to monitor changes in
soil salinity and water levels and quality through a network of stations established.
Results are positive and favorable, and the monitoring is being continued. In the Yinnan
Component, the main environmental management measure taken was the establishment
of 3,300 ha of protective forest belts and on-farm windbreaks to check drifting sand,
advance of the desert and eroding wind forces, drawing on the experience of Ningxia
Shapotou Desert Control Station. The afforestation work, together with the 3,750 ha of
fruit orchards established, have enhanced significantly the ecology of the project area.
Procurement
17.   Procurement of works and goods by international competitive bidding (ICB) and
national competitive bidding (NCB) was satisfactorily carried out under the two
components, except for the two-year delay of the Hetao Trunk Canal Water Management
Monitoring System. The delay was caused by longer time taken to engage consultants for
planning and design of the system, review and revision of the technical specifications
changing of the wrong ICB bid documents used, and the complexity encountered in the
bid evaluation and award. However, the delay did not affect significantly the operation of
the completed irrigation works in the Hetao Component as the original manually-operated
system still could be used until its replacement. In all, the total procurement values
amounted to US$150.5 million (US$76.8 million under the Hetao Component and



- 17 -
US$73.7 million under the Yinnan Component), covering a total of 54 ICB contracts and
65 NCB contracts. China's model bid documents for ICB, reviewed and agreed by IDA,
were used. During the Mid-Term Review, the procurement plan for machinery and
equipment for the two project components was reviewed and adjusted to reflect the actual
needs. Major changes included: (a) additional 5 backhoe excavators under the Hetao
Component to meet the increased maintenance workloads of canals and drains
constructed; and (b) reduction of small-size pedestrian tractors from 5,500 units to 1,000
units, in view of low demand, of 25-HP tractors and 50 units of larger tractors (75 HP),
12 additional sets of pumping equipment, and additional 5,000 tons of DAP fertilizer to
meet the new settlement needs.
Disbursement
18.   Disbursements for both the project components were generally satisfactory and
according to schedule, except for the Hetao Component whose last disbursement was tied
up with the delayed procurement of the Trunk Canal Water Management Monitoring
System. During the course of implementation, the disbursement percentage for Category
l(a)(i) was increased from 50 to 60 percent and Category l(a)(iii) from 30 to 55 percent
under the Hetao Component to reflect increases in the foreign costs. The credit proceeds
under Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement were also reallocated twice due
to original underallocations and to meet increased provisions required to meet additional
work items, quantities and costs. No revision was made to the Yinnan Component and the
credit was virtually disbursed as scheduled by the end of 1995.
C. PROJECT IMPACT
19.   A dramatic impact on the ecological environment of the project irrigation and
settlement areas under the Yinnan Component has been noted. Prior to the project, these
areas were wastelands of shifting sand devoid of any vegetation and habitation. Through
the project land reclamation, irrigation, afforestation and land settlement, these areas have
been transformed into oases of greenery, crisscrossed by roads, dotted with townships and
villages that are now new growth centers of rural economy and sociocultural activities.
20.   The completed Yinnan project areas have also indirectly induced socioeconomic
development of 17 adjoining township areas (Biandangou, Hanqu, Daquan, Xuanhe,
Dazhangchang, Huabaowan, Wangtuan, etc.) through agricultural extension,
agricmachinery services and social services extended to some 100,000 farmers residing
outside the project areas. Prior to the Yinnan project, these farmers had no such facilities
or services, or they had to travel long distances to other established centers.
21.   The resettled farmers on the newly developed irrigated land have relieved the
pressure on their previous environmentally degraded land in the upland areas, allowing
the land to recover gradually. In some cases, where most of the population has been
resettled, the old villages were closed and habitation prohibited. Some of the older
villages were able to develop economically and socially with financial support from the
resettled farmers through their increased incomes.



- 18-
22.  In the Hetao project areas, the high water table levels have been controlled and
lowered and soil salinity progressively reduced through the system of drainage networks
constructed and better irrigation water management practiced, resulting in raising
productivity of the land. These favorable results were based on 42 soil/water salinity and
21 groundwater level monitoring stations established in the project area.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Adequate Project Preparation at Entry by Borrower. Both the project
components were adequately prepared by the respective regional govemments. The
concept, scope and contents of the project components were sound and appropriate to the
conditions and requirements of each region. Engineering detailed designs were prepared
in advance for major civil works. Thus, the good quality of preparation at entry facilitated
the smooth project implementation.
24.   Effective Project Organization and Management. The project organization
established for project implementation and management for the two project components
was effective. Both components have project leading groups chaired by the regional vice
chairman in charge of agriculture and project management offices. For the Yinnan
Component, the project management office was responsible directly to the regional
government and ranked at par with other regional government bureaus. For the Hetao
Component, the project management office was placed under the Bureau of Water
Resources, which was responsible for the overall project implementation. Both the
project management offices were well staffed and efficient, and played a key role in the
successful project implementation.
25.   Adequate Funding for Project Implementation. Both the regional governments
and the central government provided timely and adequate local counterpart funds that
ensured smooth project implementation and control of project costs, which could have
increased due to project delay.
26.   Competence of Local Contractors. The various local contractors who
participated in ICB and NCB contract work for the construction of irrigation and drainage
works proved to be capable and competent, ensuring the works were completed according
to time schedule, contract costs and quality. These contractors contributed in no small
way to the successful project implementation for the two project components.
27.   Active Participation by Project Beneficiaries and Stakeholders. Without the
active and direct participation of the project farmers and settlers and the local
governments (counties, townships and villages), the project would not be realized. The
project beneficiaries contributed free labor to undertake earthwork construction of tertiary
canals and drains, and on-farm facilities. The local governments raised funds and
organized communal efforts to implement most of the project works at the grassroots
level. This participatory effort created a spirit of ownership among the project
beneficiaries and stakeholders and a desire to ensure success of the project.



- 19-
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The project is assessed to be Likely Sustainable in view of the following:
*  Adequate Project Preparation at Entry. Both components were adequately
prepared by the two regional governments and IDA at entry, with adequate attention
given to project implementation, management and subsequent O&M. This resulted in
not only quality works during implementation, but also adequate provisions for long-
term sustainable operation and production.
*  Existing Competent O&M Agencies. The completed project works and facilities
have been properly handed over to existing government agencies responsible for
O&M. These agencies are competent and have the capacity to undertake the required
O&M. The project core staff will continue to work with the O&M agencies to ensure
satisfactory operation of the project until the project has reached its full development
stage.
e  Continued  Government Commitment and  Support. Both  the  regional
governments are committed to providing continued support for the project works and
facilities through administrative and fiscal measures and policy incentives which
include: (a) irrigation area management reform; (b) collection of water charges to
meet full O&M costs; (c) increased input of scientific methods and better technology
in production; and (d) improving the cropping patterns and the present ratio of grain
to commodity crops.
3  Sustainable Production Technology. The project works and facilities constructed
under both project component were integrated packages of water, agriculture, forestry
and land settlement well suited to long-term production. Agricultural production has
already reached the projected targets and the increasing trend in yields and production
will be maintained.
*  Determination of Settlers to Succeed. The 11,287 resettled households under the
Yinnan Component have demonstrated their enthusiasm and deterrnination to achieve
a new life in the new settlement; areas. The socioeconomic surveys conducted by the
Ningxia Academy of Social Sciences and Ningxia Rural Socioeconomic Survey Team
have shown that hardly any families had given up and returned to their old residence
in the poor mountain areas. On the contrary, there are increasing numbers of
unofficial settlers moving into the settlement to stay with relatives already resettled.'
The increasing number of unofficial settlers may lead to socioeconomic problems
The latest statistics show that some 3,580 unofficial settlers have moved into the settlement areas to
stay with friend and relatives. For humanitarian reasons, the project township governments have
absorbed these unofficial settlers and given them land readjusted from some of the surplus land
allocated to the earlier settlers, while maintaining the land holding of 0.27 ha per capita in the project
area.



- 20 -
later, as the carrying capacity planned and designed for the settlement would be
exceeded.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
29.  IDA overall performance in project preparation, appraisal and supervision was
considered as Satisfactory. No significant or difficult issues were encountered, partly due
to the adequate preparation of the two project components at entry by both IDA and
Borrower, and partly due to the regular project supervision provided to the components
and good cooperation of the Borrower. IDA carried out nine supervision missions and
provided advice on project implementation and management, and technical guidance and
assistance. In particular, IDA advised on changes in some unsuitable reclamation sites for
settlement (Shilaba, Daquan and Hongqitang subproject areas), better residential layout
(from linear to concentric) for some of the settlement villages under the resettlement
subcomponent, and technical guidance for the prefeasibility study of the Yinbei Area of
the Yinnan Component in Ningxia. Under the Hetao Component, IDA's technical advice
and guidance on soil and water monitoring of the project area, salinity monitoring of
Wuliangshuhai Lake, VHF communication system and the Trunk Canal water
management monitoring system had facilitated implementation of these work items by
the Hetao project management office. IDA also carried out a Mid-Term Review in late
1992, which resulted in some changes to the work items, quantities and costs, thereby
ensuring that the project components would be completed as designed.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   The Borrower performance has been assessed as Satisfactory. Both the regional
governments were fully committed and supportive of their project components by
providing adequate and timely resources for project implementation. The two regional
project management offices and their lower prefecture and county project offices were
efficient and effective in carrying out the project preparation, implementation and
management, despite the fact that the project was the first IDA project launched for the
two regions. The project staff were competent and responded positively to IDA
supervision missions' recommendations and advice. Both the project components were
largely completed on schedule (with the exception of the water monitoring system in the
Hetao component, which delayed implementation), achieving the desired objectives and
results. The project completed works and facilities are now being operated and
maintained satisfactorily.
31.   The Borrower complied closely with the Credit Agreement covenants,
procurement and disbursement guidelines, project progress reporting and account
auditing requirements.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
32.   Both the regional governments have prepared the following for future operations:



- 21 -
* To strengthen the institutional capacity of the new township governments and village
administrative units in the new settlement areas (Yinnan Component).
* To continue promoting and disseminating sustainable and high yielding production
technologies through extension, demonstration and contracting with farmers (Hetao
and Yinnan Components).
* To collect and increase irrigation water charges progressively, to enable project
beneficiaries to finance fully the annual O&M expenses (Hetao and Yinnan
Components).
* To continue the water/soil monitoring of the project areas and the salinity levels in the
Wuliangshuhai Lake to assess their long-term impacts. It has been proposed that the
Inner Mongolia Regional Government establishes the Wuliangshuhai Lake Basin
Management Commission to manage the water resources in the lake, including
control of water pollution caused by effluent discharge from small local industries
(paper mills) and urban centers in the project area (Hetao Component).
T. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   The project overall outcome has been assessed as Satisfactory, judging by the
smooth project implementation, results and performance achieved. Both the project
components were implemented basically within the planned time schedule except for the
Hetao Component's sole item on the Trunk Canal water management system which was
delayed for nearly two years. However, the delay did not affect significantly the operation
of the completed irrigation works in the Hetao Component as the original manually-
operated system still could be used until its replacement. The planned physical targets
were achieved and, in some cases, have exceeded the original planned targets. The
agricultural yields and production of major crops in both project components were also
attained and sustained. The O&M systems for the various subcomponents (irrigation,
agricultural support services and land settlement) are in place, after having been handed
over to the existing government agencies for operation and maintenance. The new settlers
in the Yinnan Component have settled down and established themselves in their new
environments, virtually freed of absolute poverty and living a new life with assured
socioeconomic benefits.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The key lessons learned were as follows:
*  Poverty reduction through land settlement is a viable long-term intervention by
government when planned and executed systematically (Yinnan Component).
*  For poverty reduction through lEad settlement to be successful, the following should
be considered: (a) selected settlers must be motivated, self-reliant and well-informed
of the settlement processes and obligations; (b) settlers should only be given the



-22 -
option of up to two years to decide whether to remain in the new settlement or return
to their old villages; (c) settlement sites should be carefully selected for their suitable
environments, production potentials and proximity to existing population and
facilities; (d) essential basic infrastructure and social services should be provided, and
other sociocultural amenities progressively developed as settlement areas develop and
flourish; and (e) provision of government preferential policy incentives and support in
the initial years of settlement. These valuable Yinnan experiences and lessons were
reflected in the planning and design of a larger poverty alleviation through land
resettlement component under the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project (Ln.4028/Cr.2870-
CHA), involving 200,000 people (Yinnan Component).
*  To induce a sense of responsibility and determination of settlers to succeed in the new
settlement areas, project capital costs associated with their relocation and settlement
in the new settlement areas, other than the costs for communal social services, should
be recovered on a pro-rata basis from each settler over a reasonable period (Yinnan
Component).
*  In pumped irrigation schemes with expensive water production costs, water-saving
irrigation technologies (sprinkler and microsprinkler irrigation) should be introduced
to maximize economic returns and water use (Yinnan Component).
*  To minimize foreign exchange losses, project management offices must constantly
monitor foreign exchange risks and undertake ICB procurement (imported fertilizer,
heavy machinery and equipment, etc.) when foreign exchange rates are steady (Hetao
Component).
e  Technical assistance executed by joint foreign and local consultants was efficient and
cost-saving as the foreign consultants provided appropriate technologies and the local
consultants provided valuable data and local conditions and requirements to support
the technologies. This was demonstrated in the consultant services for the planning
and design of the Trunk Canal Water Management Monitoring System (Hetao
Component).



- 23 -
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                               x
Sector policies                                                                      x
Financial objectives                     X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives                      X
Poverty reduction                        X
Gender issues                                          x
Other social objectives                  X
Environmental objectives                               X
Public sector management                                                             X
Private sector development                                                           X
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                      X
Preparation assistance                                              X
Appraisal                                                           X
Supervision                                                         X
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                   X
Implementation                                                      X
Covenant compliance                                                 X
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
Project Overall                                     X



- 24 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit No.                   Purpose              Year of        Status
Title                                             Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. North China Plain Agriculture    Irrigation and land development  FY82    Completed
(Cr.1261-CHA)
2. Pi-Shi-Hang Chaohu Area     Irrigation and area development   FY85        Completed
Development
(Cr. 1601/Ln.2579-CHA)
3. Gansu Provincial Development   Irrigation, land development and  FY87     Completed
(Agricultural Component)     improvement, settlement
(Cr.1793/Ln.2812-CHA)
Following Operations:
4. Irrigated Agri. Intensification  Irrigation development and   FY91    Closing 12/31/98
(Cr.2256/Ln.3337-CHA)        improvement
5. Yangtze Basin Water Resources  Irrigation and area development  FY95    Closing 12/31/01
(Cr.27 10/Ln.2874-CHA)
6. Gansu Hexi Corridor         Irrigation, land development and  FY96    Closing 12/31/06
(Cr.2870/Ln.4028-CHA)        settlement



- 25 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                            Date planned                   Date actual
Identification                                                                                       N/A
Preparation                                                                                        09/16/86
Preappraisal                                                                                       06/11/87
Appraisal                                                              06/87                       09/21/87
Negotiations                                                           03/88                       01/25/88
Board presentation                                                     05/88                       03/22/88
Signing                                                               07/88                        08/11/88
Effectiveness                                                          10/88                       01/09/89
Project completion                                                   12/31/95                      12/31/97
Credit closing                                                       06/30/96                      04/30/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY89&   FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Actual:
Hetao Component                11.8     16.7    20.1      29.9     44.5     54.0     59.8     63.0      64       64.5
Yinnan Component               12.5     17.9    27.2    29.7       30.8     34.3     36.5    36.5       36.5     36.5
Total Actual           24.3     34.6     47.3      59.6     75.3     88.3     96.3     99.5    100.5    101.0
Appraisal Estimate: La
Hetao Component                 2.6     13.0    27.7      43.8     58.4     64.8     66.0     66.0      66.0     66.0
Yinnan Component                2.6     11.0    22.6      32.3     37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0      37.0     37.0
Total Appraisal Estimate        5.2     24       50.3    76.1      95.4    101.8    103.0    103.0    103.0    103.0
Actual as % of Estimate       467.8    144.2    94.1      78.3     78.9     86.8    93.5      96.6      97.6     98.1     _
Date of Last Disbursement                                                                                      3/30/98
/a Ref. Staff Appraisal Report Annex 2 Table 13.
Lb Include disbursement for retroactive financing wiork completed prior to FY89.
/c The total actual amount is less than the appraisal estimated amount is due to depreciation of the US dollar vs the SDR.



- 26 -
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Item/Description               Unit         SAR        Completed at Completed as
estimate    proj. closing  % of SAR est.
HETAO SUB-COMPONENT
I. Land Development & Improvement
New irrigation area developed /a            ha             47,000        47,000          100.0
Existing irrigation area improved           ha            163,000        163,000         100.0
On farm facilities: /b
Newly provided                              ha             47,000        47,000          100.0
Existing improved                           ha            163,000        163,000         100.0
Land levelling                              ha            147,000        154,000         104.8
2. Agricultural Inputs
Fertilizer used                            ton             20,000         13,000          65.0
Plastic mulch used                         ton              2,750          1,043          37.9
Dairy cows                                 heads              400           400          100.0
Ag. machinery/equipment                     set             507/6        2862/7      585/116.7
Seeds/seedlings used                    ton/min. no        NA/26       1910/19.         NA/75
3. Training
Farmers                                   m-day          1,250,000     2,317,600         185.4
Project staff training                    m-day                80            31           38.8
Study tours:
Overseas                                 m-trips              15             4           26.7
Local                                    m-trips              40            18           45.0
/a: Includes reclamation of waterlogged area.
/b: Covers construction of lateral and sublateral canals and structures by construction labor.



- 27 -
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Item/Description               Unit         SAR        Completed at Completed as
estimate    proj. closing  % of SAR est.
YINNAN SUB-COMPONENT
I. Land Development & Improvement
New irrigation area developed/a             ha             14,240         14,351         100.8
Existing irrigation area improved           ha             22,000        21,902           99.6
On farm facilities: /b
Newly provided                              ha
Existing improved                           ha
Land levelling                              ha             31,260        27,633           88.4
Fish pond                                   ha                187           106           56.8
2. Agricultural Inputs
Fertilizer used                            ton             10,000        22,400          224.0
Plastic mulch used                         ton              2,000          2,425         121.3
Ag. machinery/equipment                     no              5,500          6,124         111.3
Seeds/seedlings used                    ton/min. no.          NA      71044/14.6          NA
3. Training
Farmers                                  m-month            2,700          7,250         268.5
Project staff:
Local training                          m-month            2,400         2,350           97.9
Overseas training                       m-month
Study tours (local & overseas)          m-month              116           236          203.4
Consultants' services                    m-month               82            90          109.8
4. Resettlement
No. of families relocated                   no             11,000         11,278         102.5
No. of persons relocated                    no             54,150         54,343         100.4
Housing completed                         rooms               NA         32,507           NA
Schools completed:
Primary                                    no                 30            30          100.0
Secondary                                  no                  3             5          166.7
Health centers/clinics                      no                 29            28           96.6
Rural roads                                 km              1,476         2,360          159.9
Rural electrification                       km                 91           254          278.7
Water supply                             household         11,000         11,278         102.5
Rural shops/enterprises                     no                 29            34          117.2
la: Includes reclamation of waterlogged area.
/b: Covers construction of lateral and sublateral canals and structures by construction labor.



- 28 -
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Item Description      SAR Estimated @ Full Dev.           Actual for Year 1996/97       % of Actual/SAR
Area         Yield             Area         Yield             Area       Yield
ha       ton/ha                ha        ton/ha               %           %
HETAO SUBCOMPONENT
Wheat                          68,000.0          4.1          78,000.0           5.0            114.7      120.3
Maize                          39,000.0          6.0          33,000.0           8.3             84.6      137.5
Sunflower                      23,000.0          2.5          31,000.0           2.9            134.8      117.6
Flax                            7,000.0          1.9            5,300.0          2.2             75.7      118.9
Beet                           15,000.0         30.0           15,500.0         37.5            103.3      125.0
Vegetables                     15,000.0         18.3           10,000.0         30.0             66.7      164.4
Fodder                         31,000.0          3.8           8,750.0           4.6             28.2      122.7
Mellons                        14,000.0         20.0           8,950.0          30.0             63.9      150.0
Orchard/Windbreaks             28,000.0    NA/3,825           20,000.0    495/2,250              71.4     NA/71
SAR Estimated ® Full Dev.        Actual for Year 1996/97          % of Actual/SAR
Socio-economic /a                              (Yuan)                         (Yuan)
Total gross incomes                           5,782.0                       23,937.0                       414.0
Total household expenditures                  1,874.0                       13,452.0                       717.8
Total net incomes                            3,908.0                        10,485.0                       268.3
Per capita incomes                             909.0                         2,097.0                       230.7
Preproject
Household Per Capita Income in Hetao            576.0                          2097.0                       364.1
/a Based on sampling of pre-determined areas selected for monitoring.



- 29 -
TABLE 6B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Item Description     SAR Estimated @ Full Dev.          Actual for Year 1996/97       % of Actual/SAR
Area        Yield             Area         Yield            Area      Yield
ha       ton/ha               ha        ton/ha              %          %
YINNAN SUB-COMPONENT
Wheat                          9,000.0          4.5          11,679.0         4.6            129.8      102.2
Maize                          4,000.0          6.8          14,038.0          6.1           351.0       90.4
Rice                           5,000.0          8.5           4,360.0         9.6             87.2      112.5
Soybean                           NA           NA             1,880.0         2.1             NA          NA
Millet                         2,000.0          3.8           3,840.0          3.0           192.0       79.5
Oil crops                      3,000.0          2.4           2,755.0         2.9             91.8      120.6
Vegetables                     1,000.0         22.5              NA           NA               NA         NA
Licorice                          NA           NA              300.0           7.1             NA         NA
Mellons                           NA           NA             2,280.0         39.0             NA         NA
Fruits                         3,800.0         15.0           3,753.0        45.0             98.8      300.0
Shrubs and trees/b             3,850.0      3,825.0           3,301.0      4,367.0            85.7      114.2
Pasture                        4,700.0          4.1              NA           NA               NA         NA
Aquatic products                 187.0         NA               106.3          2.7            56.8        NA
SAR Estimated @ Full Dev.        Actual for Year 1997           % of Actual/SAR
Socio-economic /a                            (Yuan)                         (Yuan)
Total gross incomes                         4,690.0                        9,435.0                      201.2
Total household expenditures                1,468.0                        2,090.0                      142.4
Total net incomes                           3,200.0                       7,345.0                       229.5
Per capita incomes                            644.0                        1,469.0                      228.1
Preproject
Average Per Capita Income for new settlers   .  325.0                       1,469.0                      452.0
Average Per Capita Income for Islamic Hui set  327.0                        1,494.0                      457.0
/a Based on sampling of pre-determined areas selected for monitoring.
/b The yield is the No. of the small poles per ha.



- 30 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Component/Study              Study Content                        Results
Hetao Component    Ref. SAR para. 3.39 and Annex 4.    The study was contracted by Hetao
Wuliangsuhai Lake                                    PMO to the Environmental Hydrogeol-
Salinity Study     To study the environmental impact of   ogy Research Institute, Ministry of
increased flow of drainage water from   Urban & Rural Construction and
the project area into the Lake and its    Environmental Protection. The annual
effect on the existing salinity of the  monitoring results analyzed show that
water and aquatic life.           the increase in salinity had been within
the levels projected and no significant
adverse impact had been noted. Moni-
toring is being continued to obtain the
long-term impact.
Yinnan Component   Ref. SAR Para. 3.21.                Ningxia PMO, using local consultants,
Yinbei Prefeasibility                                completed the required studies and
Study              To conduct a prefeasibility study of the  prepared the prefeasibility reports that
Yinbei Irrigation Area covering some   were submitted to IDA. The reports
133,000 ha of existing cultivated land   would be used for future project finan-
and 100,000 ha of potentially irrigable  cing by international financial institu-
land for future improvement and devel- tions. The studies show that it is techni-
opment. The project provided Y 10  cally and economically viable to
million in technical assistance for the   develop the Yinbei Area for increased
study.                            agricultural production and poverty
reduction through land settlement.



- 31 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Item and                           SAR. Estimate                                   Actual at Completion
Description          Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total       Local Foreign   Total    Local Foreign  Total
(Y million)            (US$ million)               (Y million)             (US$ million)
HETAO COMPONENT
Civil Works:
Trunk drain                   35.0    35.0  70.0        9.5    9.5  19.0         49.7   61.3    III        10.6   11.7  22.3
Trunk canal                    3.8     5.8   9.6        1.0    1.6   2.6          4.4    2.8    7.2           1    0.5   1.5
D&I Network improvement       56.2    56.2  112.4      15.2   15.2  30,4         89.5   103.3  192.8       17.2   17.1  34.3
Subtotal            95.0    97.0 192.0       25.7   26.3  52.0        143.6  167.4    311        28.8   29.3  58.1
On-farm Development:
Lat. & Sublat.canals          15.1     0.0  15.1        4.1    0.0   4.1
Lat. & Sublat. drains         52.1     0.0  52.1       14.1    0.0  14.1
Field ditches/drains          63.1     0.0  63.1       17.1    0.0  17.1
Structures                    16.4   24.5  40.9         4.4    6.6  11.0
Land leveling/smoothing       14.7    0.0  14.7         4.0    0.0   4.0
Tubewell drainage              8.5     8.5  17.0        2.3    2.3   4.6
Subsurface drainage            4.1    4.1   8.2         1.1    1.1   2.2
Subtotal           174.0   37.1 211.1        47.1    10.0  57.1        163.5  108.6  272.1       31.9     17   48.9
Electrification                 3.3     7.7  11.0        0.9    2.1   3.0          3.9    7.7    11.6        0.6    1.1   1.7
Buildings                      11.3    4.8  16.1         3.0    1.3   4.3          9.9    6.4   16.3         1.9    1.1      3
O&M machinery & equip.          0.0   26.3  26.3         0.0    7.1   7.1          4.6   56.4       61       0.6    9.1   9.7
Agricultural machinery                                                             16.5   20.6   37.1        3.6    5.5   9.1
and materials                 11.8   22.8  34.6         3.2    6.2   9.4
Office/Lab. equipment           0.0    11.5  11.5        0.0    3.1   3.1          0.4    3.2    3.6          0    0.4   0.4
Training & technical assist.    3.8    3.8   7.6         1.0    1.0   2.0          2.7    6.1    8.8         0.5    0.8   1.3
Engineering/Management          9.2     1.0  10.2        2.5    0.3   2.8          6.6    1.8    8.4         0.9    0.2   1.1
Base Cost           308.4   212.0  520.4      83.4   57.4  140.8
Physical contingencies         11.5     8.7  20.2        3.1    2.3   5.4
Price contingencies            49.5    74.2  123.7       4.4    6.6  11.0
TOTAL HETAO                   369.4   294.9 664.3       90.9   66.3  157.2       351.7  378.2  729.9        68.8   64.5  133.3
YINNAN COMPONENT
Civil Works:
Guhai                          7.9     7.9  15.8        2.1    2.1   4.2          14.9   9.93   24.83      2.69    1.79   4.48
Tongxin                        9.8     9.8  19.6        2.6    2.6   5.2         19.69   13.12   32.81       4   2.67   6.67
Langpiziliang                  5.5     5.5  11.0        1.5    1.5   3.0         9,46     6.3  15.76       1.88    1.25   3.13
Jinyintan                      5.1    5.1  10.2         1.4    1.4   2.8         14,54    9.69   24.23     2.79    1.86   4.65
Subtotal            28.3   28.3  56.6         7.6    7.6  15.2        58.59   39.04   97.63     11.36   7.57  18.93
On-farm Development:
Guhai                         26.9    17.9  44.8        7.3    4.8  12.1        34.89   11.41    46.3      5.92   2.24   8.16
Tongxin                       14.3    9.5  23.8         3.9    2.6   6.5        22.35    4.38   26.73      3.84    1.33   5.17
Langpiziliang                  8.4     5.6  14.0        2.3    1.5   3.8        11.66    8.74    20.4     2.68    1.78   4.46
Jinyintan                     12.1    8.1  20.2         3.3    2.2   5.5         12.07    8.84   20.91      2.7   1.81   4.51
Subtotal            61.7   41.1  102.8       16.8   11.1  27.9        80.97   33.37  114.34     15.14   7.16   22.3
Electrification                 2.4     5.6   8.0        0.6    1.5   2.1          15.5     11    26.5      2.61    1.99    4.6
Telecommunication                                                                 2.52    1.51    4.03      0.43   0.28   0.71
Resettlement                   29.5    29.5  59.0        8.0    8.0  16.0         59.4   19.3   78.7    10.63   3.67   14.3
Machinery&equip.                0.0    15.0  15.0        0.0    4.1   4.1                83.11   83.11            14.39  14.39
Training & technical assist.    1.8     1.8   3.6        0.5    0.5   1.0          3.5    0.4    3.9        0.74   0.06    0.8
Engineering /Management         6.6    0.7   7.3         1.8    0.2   2.0         3.94    2.36     6.3      0.75    0.5  1.25
Yinbei Study                    7.0     3.0  10.0        1.9    0.8   2.7         5.46    3.64     9.1      1.24   0.83   2.07
Base Cost           137.3   125.0 262.3       37.2   33.8  71.0       229.88  193.73  423.61      42.9  36.45  79.35
Physical contingencies          5.9     5.4  11.3        1.6    1.5   3.1
Price contingencies            18.1    27.1  45.2        1.2    1.8   3.0
TOTAL YINNAN                  161.3   157.5 318.8       40.0   37.1  77.1       229.88  193.73  423.61      42.9  36.45  79.35
TOTAL PROJECT                 530.7  452.4 983.1       130.9  103.4 234.3         581.6  571.9  1153.5    111.7  101.0  212.7



-32 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Source                      Appraisal Estimate                   Estimate at Closing
Local    Foreign      Total             Local    Foreign      Total
I. HETAO COMPONENT, INNER MONGOLIA
Bank/IDA                          0.0       66.0       66.0               0.0       64.5       64.5
Central Government               10.8        0.0       10.8              13.4        0.0        13.4
Regional Govt.                   32.5        0.0       32.5              19.7        0.0        19.7
Prefecture/League Govt.          13.7        0.0       13.7               8.1        0.0         8.1
County/Township/
Self-raised funds                34.0        0.0       34.0              27.6        0.0       27.6
Subtotal Hetao             91.0       66.0      157.0              68.8       64.5       133.3
IL.YINNAN COMPONENT, NINGXIA
Bank/IDA                          0.0       37.0       37.0               0.0       36.5        36.5
Central Government                0.0        0.0        0.0               0.0        0.0         0.0
Regional Govt.                    0.0        0.0        0.0               0.0        0.0         0.0
Prefecture/League Govt.          20.0        0.0       20.0              19.0        0.0        19.0
County/Township/
Self-raised funds                20.0        0.0       20.0              23.9        0.0       23.9
Subtotal Yinnan             40.0       37.0       77.0              42.9       36.5       79.4
TOTAL PROJECT:                   131.0      103.0      234.0             111.7      101.0       212.7
Bank/IDA                          0.0      103.0      103.0               0.0      101.0       101.0
Central Government               10.8        0.0        10.8             13.4        0.0        13.4
Regional Govt.                   32.5        0.0       32.5              19.7        0.0        19.7
Prefecture/League. Govt.         33.7        0.0       33.7              27.1        0.0        27.1
County/Township/
Self-raised funds                54.0        0.0       54.0              51.5        0.0       51.5



- 33 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal estimate                ICR estimate
ProjectVComponent                  Economic NPV      EIRR(%)       Economic NPV       EIRR(%)
(Y min)                         (Y min)
Project as a whole                      422                20.0       2277.3              28.9
Hetao Component                         347                21.0        571.1                22
Yinnan Component:
-Expansion                              63                 17.0       1690.2              39.8
-Rehabilitation                         12                21.0         16.56              13.7
of which: Fishponds\a                    2                20.0          -3.6              2.4
- Total Yinnan                          75                 17.0       1706.2              34.5
\a: Due to poor market demand and prices, the fresh water fish ponds were reduced from 187 ha to 106 ha
and the benefits accrued were much less than the original estimates at appraisal.
\b The detailed analysis are contained in project files and will be available upon request.



- 34 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agree-                   nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section      Class    Status    date        date                  Description of covenant
CREDIT  Section 2.02        1        C                          Govt. to open and maintain Special Account.
PROJECT Section 2.05        5        C                           Each region shall maintain Project Coordinating
Committees at regional, prefecture and county levels,
and PMO with staff, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA.
Section 2.06      3        C                           Each region to prepare and fumish work and financial
plan for IDA review by November I of each year.
Section 3.01      1        C                           Each region to furnish to IDA, not later than June 30,
financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
Section 3.02      3        C                           Water charges to cover at least full O&M costs not later
than: (a) FY97 for Hetao; and (b)(i) FY96 for gravity-
supplied schemes, and (ii) FY2002 for lift-supplied
schemes in respect of Ningxia.
Schedule 2, 1     10       CP                          Training of staff and farmers in accordance with agreed
programs.
Schedule 2, 2     10       C                           Ningxia shall implement resettlement plan agreed with
IDA.
Schedule 2, 3(a)    10     C                           Project activities  to  comply  with  Government
environmental control standards acceptable to IDA.
Schedule 2, 3(b)    10     C                           Nei Monggol to continuously monitor water quality in
the trunk, main drain and the Wuliangsuhai Lake, and
to furnish annual assessment reports to IDA.
Schedule 2, 4     to       CP                          Each region to furnish annual fertilizer program by
November 1.
Schedule 2, 5     10       CD                          Ningxia to establish Yinbei area study group with TOR
satisfactory to IDA, and to furmish study reports by
June 30, 1991.
Schedule 2, 6     10       C                           Each region to submit to IDA for review and approval
NCB procedures and sample bid documents by June
30, 1988 or prior to bid invitation.
Schedule 2, 7     10       C                           Nei Monggol shall maintain the Hetao Irrigation Area
Management General Bureau in accordance with the
Borrower's national guidelines for management of large
irrigation areas and submit a draft of O&M manual to
IDA for review by June 30,1990.
Covenant Class:                                                               Status:
I= Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                    C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not       CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project    covered by categories 1-9
funds                        11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the          allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants           regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement     13 = Other



- 35 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No specific provision of the Operational Manual Statements was involved during project
implementation.
TABLE 12: IDA RESOU]RCES: STAFF INPUTS (ALL COMPONENTS)
Planned                   Revised                     Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                Weeks  US$'000            Weeks   US$'000             Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                                     63.8
Appraisal                                                                                                    54.0
Negotiations to Board approval                                                                                 6.5
Supervision                                                                                                  90.2
Completion                                                                                                    11.0
TOTAL                                                                                             225.5
TABLE 13: IDA RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating Lh
Specialized staff    Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle       Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented   mentation       opment       Type of
year     persons    in field        /a            status      objectives    problems /c
ID Mission Through Appraisal 03/86 to      4         na        A, E, 1, IE         -             -             -
09/87
na
Appraisal through Board     09/87 to       4         na        A, E, 1, IE.        -             -             -
approval                   03/88
Supervision 1                04189         1         12           IE              2              1       MS, EGR, F.
Supervision 2                 10/90        3         14         A, E, IE           I             1         EGR, F.
Supervision 3                 10/91        1         14           IE               I             I          EGR, F
Supervision 4                09/92         1         12           IE               I             I         EGR, F.
Supervision 5                 10/93        1          5           IE               I             I         EGR, F.
Supervision 6                04/94        2           10          IE               I             I            F.
Supervision 7                06/95        23         10         IE, RS           HS             HS           EGR
Supervision 8                06/96         4          10        IE, ES            HS            HS           EGR
Supervision/ICR              03/97         2          7          IE, E            HS            HS
La   Key to specialized skills: A = Agriculturist, E = Economist, I = Institution specialist, IE = Irrigation engineer, RS
Resettlement specialist, ES = Environmental sociologist.
/b   Performance ratings: 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems. HS = highly
satisfactory, S = satisfactory; US = unsatisfactory.
Lc   Types of problems: M = Management; EGR = Engineering; F = Counterpart funding, MS = Material shortage






-37-                       ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.   Implementation Completion Report of China Northern Irrigation Project (Yinnan
Component), by the World Bank Project Management Office in Ningxia, China,
August 8, 1996, (revised November, 1997)
2.    Implementation Completion Report of China Northern Irrigation Project (Hetao
Component), by the World Bank Project Management Office in Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region, China, June, 1997 (revised December, 1997) (written in
Chinese)
Note: The above reports are contained in project files and are available upon request.



- 38 -                      ANNEXB
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
NORTHERN IRRIGATION PROJECT (CR.1885-CHA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
MARCH 25 TO MARCH 30, 1997
1.    A Bank mission visited Hohhot, Inner Mongolia from March 25 to 30 to prepare
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for - the above project. The mission
reviewed the draft ICRs with Hetao/Bameng Project Management Office (PMO) from
March 26 to 27 and with Ningxia PMO from March 28 to 29. The mission wishes to
thank the staff of the two regional PMOs for the cooperation and hospitalities extended to
the mission. The following records the issues discussed and decision reached with the
PMOs to further improve the draft ICRs prepared.
HETAO (INNER MONGOLIA) DRAFT ICR
2.    HETAO PMO has revised and prepared the latest draft ICR (February 1997)
following the recommendations of an earlier supervision/ICR mission in 1996. Based on
the latest revised draft discussed with Hetao PMO, the mission recommended the
following:
(i) Chapter 1 Project's Objectives and Scope:
(a) In para. 1-1, a clear statement on project's objectives should be stated up front.
The wordings can follow those used in the Bank' Staff Appraisal Report.
(b) Under para. 2-2, the last two paragraphs should be transferred to Chapter 2
Project Implementation and Results.
(ii) Chapter 2 Project Implementation and Results
(a) Under para. 2-2, Agricultural Component, explanations should be provided for
the substantial changes between the planned and actual completed quantities of various
items under this component.



- 39 -                    ANNEXB
(b) Under para. 2-4, to provide the total values (Yuan or US$) for each of the ICB,
LIB, LCB and Price Quotation categories. Any major issues or problems encountered,
and their impacts should also be discussed under this paragraph.
c) Under para. 2-5 on Disbursement, the Table 1 provided is not relevant and
should be deleted. Reference should be made to the Annex Table 8 instead. An
assessment should be made as to whether the disbursement was according to planned
schedule. If lagging behind the planned schedule, reasons should be given for the lag.
(d) Under para. 2-6 on Results, the leading paragraph should describe the
irrigation areas improved and expanded under the four major areas targeted
(Hanjinghouqi, Linhe City, Wuyuan County and Wulatekqianqi). Para. 2-6-4 on
agriculture, forestry and livestock development should be made the second paragraph of
Para. 2-6 with the development of aquaculture considered as induced benefits or impact
and to be included under Chapter 3 on Project Impacts.
(e) Under para. 2-7 on Economic Analysis and EIRR Evaluation, the mission
recommended that the EIRR of 30.5% evaluated at project completion (Table 6) should
be further reviewed; and possible explanations should be given for the comparatively
high EIRR value determined..
(iii) Chapter 3 Project Impact
(a) Under para. 3-3, more realistic crop yields should be projected for large
cultivated areas, bearing in mind that the actual average crop yields obtained by farmers
are generally lower than those obtained from demonstration farms conducted by
extension units or scientific institutions (e.g. yield of 500 kg per mu or 7.5 tons/ha for
wheat is unlikely to be achieved by farmers on a large-scale cultivation). Similarly, large
increase in farm machinery use by farmers should be clearly explained if it is impacted by
the project.
(b) Under para. 3-4 on Environmental Impact, statements should be included to
the effect that the two environmental monitoring (Soil/Water and Wuliangshuhai) would
be continued until 2000 to obtain more conclusive results.
(c) Other economic-socio impacts could be considered including: saving of labor
on farm production activities, the improved labor productivity could lead to engagement
of spare labor hours in sideline activities (livestock and aquaculture rearing, off-season
vegetables growing under covered plastic sheds, establishment of family business and
small-scale township and village enterprises, etc.) and earning more incomes, and
additional employment opportunities generated.
(iv) Chapter 5 Project Sustainability
(a) Para. 1 should be split into two separate paragraphs: one on Hetao General
Bureau of Irrigation Area Management (at Linhe, Bameng) and the other on Hetao



- 40 -                    ANNEXB
Irrigation Area operation and management manuals which would be revised within three
years of its use since its issue to the operation and management staff.
(b) Para. 2, 3 and 4 should 'be transferred to a new Chapter 7 on Future Operation
Plan with the para. 2 split into two separate subjects.
(c) The following additional items could be considered to ensure the project's
sustainability:
(1) Establishment of'a supervisory unit within the Region's Bureau of
Water Resources to supervise regularly the annual operation and maintenance of
the completed irrigation and drainage facilities to ensure their quality and
standards.
(2)An adequate agricultural support services system has been established
in the project area to provide modem science and production technology to sustain
and enhance further the high agricultural productivity already achieved so far.
(v) Chapter 6 Evaluation of Bank's Performance
(a) Para. 4 should be combined with Para. 1 of the Chapter 8 on Expereinces and
Lessons Learned
(vi) Chapter 7 Future Operation Plan (New Chapter)
(a) To insert Paras. 2 (two separate subjects), 3 and 4 from Chapter 5.
(b) To consider development of pilot areas (lateral canal command area) for
establishment of Water Users Associations (WUAs) under the concept of Self-financing
Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDD) to reform the present water management and
create self-supporting operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage facilities
below the lateral canal by farmers themselves. The mission learned that to a large extent
self-supporting operation and maintenance organizations (by groups and units) below the
lateral canal level already exist. However, under the SIDD/WUA concept, more
autonomy, rights, legal standing and official recognition would be given to the
established WUAs. Also, handover of water charges (to be used for O&M), and
eventually the right to set those charges, to the WUAs should be thoroughly considered.
Hetao PMO agreed to visit and study the pilot schemes being carried out by Hunan and
Hubei under the Bank-financed Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project.
(vii) Chapter 8 Experiences and Lesson Learned
(a) Para. 1 to incorporate the para. 4 from Chapter 4 on foreign exchange risks and
losses, and elaborate on ways and means to minimize such risks and losses.
(b) To consider adding the following experiences:



-41-                      ANNEX B
(1) Adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds is necessary to
ensure smooth project implementation as experienced under the project;
(2) Project organization set up under one single hierarchy (Bureau of
Water Resources) for major irrigation and drainage project would
facilitate project cooperation and coordination at all levels and ensure
smooth project implementation; and
(3) Selection of qualified and competent contractors would ensure timely
completion of major civil works with high construction quality.
YINNAN (NINGXIA) DRAFT ICR
3.    The mission reviewed the draft ICR (dated August 8, 1996) prepared by the
World Bank Project Management Office, Ningxia and recommended the following
revision to further improve the draft ICR:
(I) Chapter 1 Project Objectives and Description
(a) Under para. 1.4, the 11,000 households and 54,150 poor farmers mentioned
should be translated as planned targets in the SAR and not actually completed.
(b) Under para. 1.6, the performance of the three replacement areas should be
mentioned.
(ii) Chapter 2 on Project Implementation and Results
(a) Under para. 2.4, the World Bank credit total expenditures should tally with the
total amount of US$36 million equivalent disbursed. The last sentence in the para. should
be deleted. This would also require the attached tables (8-A, 8-C-2) on investment
expenditures to be adjusted accordingly.
(b) Under para. 2.5, the number of ICB, LIB and LCB contracts awarded for
works and goods should be given together with the total value amount for each category.
(c) To add the following new paragraphs, after para. 2.10, on:
(1) Monitoring of sampled farm households by Ningxia Demographic
Research Institute and Rural Social-Economic Survey Teams to be
continued to at least 2000 in order to establish the trend of the socio-
economic well-being of the sampled households; and
(2) To indicate the number of settlers abandoning and returning to their
original villages in the initial years of settlement and the current situation
of non-official settlers moving into the settlement villages.



-42-                      ANNEX B
(d) Under para. 2.15, the various areas reported should be grouped into "New or
Expanded Irrigation Area" and "Improved Existing Irrigation Area" to be consistent with
the irrigation area grouping used in the Staff Appraisal Report.
(e) The heading before para,, 2.19 should be changed to read "The Project Results"
(f) Under para. 2.19, an analysis and comparison of the incomes of the minority
Hui settlers and existing Han farmers should be included. The mission would also like to
have the raw data used in determining the ERR by means of the domestic method.
(g) To insert a new para. entitled "The Project Studies" after para. 2.19. A write
up of Yinbei Pre-feasibility studies and the subsequent use of the study results should be
discussed under this new paragraph.
(iii) Chapter 3 on Project Organization and Management
(a) Under para. 3.6, detailed breakdown of the annual operation and maintenance
cost should be provided as raw data for the mission to evaluate the ERR.
(iv) Chapter 4 on Project Effects (Impacts)
(a) Under para. 4.2, it is necessary to provide more specific details on the project-
induced impacts on similar socio-economic development of areas adjacent to the project
areas ( name of area, size of area, number of household and people involved, estimated
cost involved, etc.)
(b) To add new para. 4.3 on impact on the socio-cultural status of the Hui settlers
in the new settlement areas as compared to the status in the original villages, including
religion and traditional practices.
(v) Chapter 5 on Project Sustainability
(a) Para. 5.2 would be more appropriate to be inserted under the Chapter 9 on
Future Operation.
(vi) Chapter 6 on The World Bank Performance
(a) An additional para. 6.4 on contribution by the World Bank to the Mid-Term
Review which has helped to adjust the project sub-components, items and their quantities
so as to expedite and ensure continued smooth project implementation might be
considered.
(vii) Chapter 7 on Borrower Performance
(a) The Bank will write this chapter based on evaluation of the following main
headings:



-43 -                     ANNEX B
(1) Project Organization and Management in project implementation;
(2) Adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds;
(3) Quality of construction works and follow-up utilization and
maintenance; and
(4) Compliance with Bank requirements and procedures on procurement
and disbursement.
(viii) Chapter 8 on Relationship between the World Bank and the Borrower
This chapter 8 is not required for the ICR and can be deleted.
(ix) Chapter 9 on Future Operation
(a) The paras. 9.1 to 9.3 are valid points. However, the para. 5.2 on cost recovery
and repayments could be included as a new para. 9.5; and
(b) The mission recommended the Project Office to consider the new concept of
Self-financing Irrigation and Drainage Districts (SIDD) and Water Users Associations
(WUAs) being promoted by the Bank to reduce the financial burden on the local
governments in subsidizing annual operation and maintenance costs and promote more
self-reliance and responsibilities of farmers in carrying out operation and maintenance of
the completed irrigation facilities below the branch canal level. The mission learned that
to a large extent self-supporting operation and maintenance organizations (by groups and
units) below the lateral canal level already exist. However, under the SIDD/WUA
concept, more autonomy, rights, legal standing and official recognition would be given to
the established WSCs/WUAs. For examples, in the three pumping schemes, Water
Supply Company could be set up to replace the pumping station units and sell irrigation
water in bulk to the various Water Users' Associations which could be formed for each of
the irrigation areas commanded by lateral canals. Ningxia PMO agreed to visit and study
the pilot schemes being carried out by Hunan and Hubei under the Bank-financed
Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project and try out a few pilot areas. A new para. 9.6 on
this subject could be included as part of the future operation plan strategy.
(x) Chapter 10 Works Need Improvement
(a) The chapter's heading should be changed to "Key Experiences and Lessons
Learned ".
(b) A new para. 10.4 on integrated approach to poverty alleviation through land
settlement on irrigated land complete with settlement villages and townships, basic
infrastructure (roads, water and electricity supplies) and social amenities (schools, health,
shops, services, etc.) would ensure successful land settlement and quality of life of



-44 -                     ANNEXB
settlers in the new environments. Such concept should be considered for future land
settlement schemes to reduce poverty of poor farmers.
TABLES (AS APPLICABLE TO HETAO AND YINNAN COMPONENTS)
4.        The PMOs in Inner Mongolia and Ningxia Hui Autonomous Regions will
further complete, per ICR format, the necessary background data and analyses as
discussed with the mission (based on the provided materials). A brief summary of those
tables and related information required are as follows:
A.  Completing project costs and benefit analyses by finalizing:
a)   The actual investment costs by components, expenditure category, and
year in Yuan and US$ (with sub-components for fishponds and agro-
processing for Ninigxia);
b)   The actual crop budgets (per ha) for all crops, fruit, and tree by year
(to full development), and for newly expanded and improved existing
irrigated land, including physical quantity and unit prices (to 1997) for
all inputs and outputs with and without project;
c)   The actual developed sown area (given interplanting and multiple
cropping area for Inner Mongolia) by crops, trees and year (to full
development) for newly expanded and improved existing irrigated
land with and without project;
d)   The actual developed livestock by year (to full development) for large
animals, sheep and others with output and input for each animal;
e)   providing an operation and maintenance plan with relevant financial
budget and financing plan for new or improved irrigation and drainage
system;
f)   Freight costs fromL the farm gate to the nearest port, port charges, and
FOB or CIF for traded commodities in 1996.
B.  Formulating farm household survey data from sampling of
predetermined areas selected for minority beneficiaries for different
irrigation areas, and average household income for Inner Mongolia,
including detailed income from crop production, livestock,
aquaculture, sideline and others, and expenditures for self
consumption, investment and operation cost, taxes, and other charges
with and without project;
C.  Finalizing the summary tables on actual investment costs, procurement,



-45 -                     ANNEX B
disbursement and financing plan for the whole project according to the
original estimates of the SAR and of the mid-term adjustment;
D.  Complete summary tables of Key Indicators for project implementation and
operation with the original estimates of the SAR and of the Mid-Termn
Review, and actual completion at the end of the 1997.
E.  General: All tables using the original SAR figures should be carefully
checked for consistency of items and figures used in the SAR.
TIME TABLE
5.    Both Hetao and Ningxia PMOs agreed to revise their respective ICRs and the
accompanied tables and submit them to the World Bank not later than June 30, 1997.
March 30, 1997 (Revised April 11, 1997)
Hohhot, Inner Mongolia
Distribution:
Mr. Kang Yue, Deputy Director
Hetao Project Management Office
Northern Irrigation Project
Bureau of Water Resources
8, Hulun South Road
Hohhot 010020, Inner Mongolia, China    Fax No. 471-692-2131
Mr. Guo Zhan Yuan, Director
Ningxia Agricultural Commission
Northern Irrigation Project Management Office
134, Zhongshan Nan Jie
Yinchuan 750001, Ningxia, China  Fax No. 951-603-2998



- 46 -                               ANNEX C
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S COMMENTS
. -      *       X        ; F: :C WR@sT 'G h ,:, E:; ., i ' -   4GA1 o.  
-  w.N.115tJi. Scutn.taC  i.iz-a~ fi=g        PsR.  fc"F a  r               ^    --
Te.: E-.71-i231; Fax:           5        ,1
-.  --I                                    R~~~~~~C91VEo'
:-      : ~DATE:MAY.i5.13S8  FA!L               Ti;;                             9 1- -TA ..Hj
*  ; TO FAX S.:  1      2                                  1 8  + ? ;- r  Y 'c     '   '   i i   ip
To.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NO.  Do,    *m 'WI               - . .             |  ,:
FOP:            ir La&zS. Tay T&,Jc  aW IZ
.. Qgza.z?at!a*.:  PAral & Soctal Des. Cv at!ors D1v!s,la      :        I             
OrmTa n- -r I SiB sod a, IJSA D....v - Cr  -vrt 1: ON    : .S* j-'
waslir. a;. s,                                   I !'
FROM:           KIrz                                 j      -I
~~~I _                                                             -_
we have     ce reived U%3 ca-.af o  IV' of    N Na';T .EyO             PT4&   C--. ac
- - ex-A~I e~ca  ri d i*b Ie~a '- r..-e fcFcot .  .-e Vw  a  ra- ?ae         mf1 lt I1Y.
e.Tec-ive h2re*ork?.ThS e.;o-   mOrb sgiTs   attitwde tv :    VYcr          hT&'-
Th17e io It io4 !rg are o::r a .-eE c-5x. cn l y for SJo. r,ret'caff; -      
1he f I i o I.-Zs - are  i a   ,                  ;; an  ,,            H     ' f;;
2.  Page  3 (i) Irrijati s a     e nag-a e .  J-  curtn  I;re 'Z1C   s's!d         ;
.5ageS  cii)  ,sr icjltxral St-zort  SarVces  (i-ets  Co    !t-   last
sente.rc  of (a) .'0 tnits cf sa2CO'ZassThr o|!as,-s sr'         , ri       f sc 
jccessTg  equ.t:  In ,tle  Ist serd  lne od I         b) th  adfor ft7e 'un tIs
...  ...                                                       -        , '3.
3. The  th.-dc i r.e of  a -41s adedof    i5 , -37 faI                    e  *3
few Isl'. -,-  I is                                 ti        
4.  For                   f           ,t*   2, s8 CS. 41db   1iar CZ  C       3 
..   otatia'.  .        :                 .                                 
S. 'We had  procjred  total  of 22 2                                        -
excavatrs is fi r . r i cu! t,re. t, tnere ar-z 32 b er.  Zxcavjc'  !I. .. -
6. Abti tne req                ae                 e       are asfcl;ois:
a. We would         clalr. uiy  refcr!1 for tre aaTh,-IZahzY I.   . I.-r.v ?tT    Mra .
b. Tne  wm a=r  C!%%,n a wi I      I  rAeet 'Ue 'eat,c  arS aaii'ap   of  _ e
.   ro_.  area (about 0.0            t3 th yea of            w.. -
be In zor  aCit,.Of.    c T.at 
c.  Irreasirg sCefer        ag.'-C acLicu-g  itaplCar ;7t. rILra-.ir ig rtC  tIa1
;st,rr.jctu    C!larWrs  ti^ e xV=t a, of Jra!n Wrd    41'        *l',.    :.8   o   i
4.a:5.5.                                 ;    ? '             ^             :- 
cd.  ItcleentnatIOn. IrrigaT( i j   f SZYv f  krata    2 ;Y cSee.2                -
proeton rd  fa-                    :oe .r. ig:n aGra,  1i   ef Je util z    rat
for water froC  4.8Z t;o EXi                  .        -     i ..
-   e.  We wil I  caitrLvtl I  miF hirng tte  prj ee=      f            .f
2010, aGex  eeac  fact I [+Y tao' ingr  ,l1Y.
Pleas  101act witt us i have any aJlst - .a-
Besi3t Regazrc
cc:Ms O.n Li
':   .                      .                                  ,:        . .               j 



-47-                          ANNEX C
Ningxia Projoct Mwanagement Ofice of China Qinbu Mountains Poverty
Reduction World flank Loan Pr.,jcct
134 Zhnnmbhm Nan HiO.Yinchun 750001. Ning.da  CliIna
Fax: 095 1-603-299S
Date: June],1998
ro Mr. Long S. l ay             Fax Nu. 202-522-1561
! let Task Team Leader
OrSanization: ltRural Lievelopmentt Naltural Rosource swSc1nr Unit,
P=st Atin & 1ncuiC Ro*ion. Thl World Bank Group
Clty/ couitry: Washington 3). C, 10433 U.S.A.
OJricial Conicnts on) the DraM 1CR for China Northern hi%ign1ion
PrujcQt(CreditNo. 18X.5C1IA)
Dear Mlr. LaTg  'ra
we, arm vcry pleased u, receivc the draft ICR for the abovo-captioncd prepared by 1bie.
l3ank inimsi..L We apprcciiau thaL thr prioect werc sucecssaUlty complcawd and
achieved thu dasired objectives antd result. with the grcat efforts of the Borrower and
the Bank missiotn and the uverall ltnoject oUtCcnmCs wore assessed as mote thati
satisfautoi'y. Wo havo oaretWly read And roviowed thc ICR . Mhc ICR is oxcullont usnd
it fairly and objectively evaluated the owrall project desired objectivcs, results and
impact as well as concluded the experiences and lessons during trIc smooth and
successful implementation of the project. On the basis of the data and information, the
ICR analyzed the reasons of the project smooth compiction and higlily assessed thc
perfomiance. of the Borrower, and also some constructive sugstins and key
requirements for the project staff provided are valuable for the implementation of the
conung projects.
Sinccrcly
clJ
Ningxia Project &LMnangenent Office
W   c                                                   Offiial Sea



