Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1885 CHA
(Northern Irrigation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEI MONGGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
and
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated August 11, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1885 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and NEI MONGGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION and NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION 
(the Regions).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-two million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,700,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that each of the Regions agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS each of the Regions, in consideration of the Association's entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, and "FY" means the fiscal year of the 
Regions starting January 1 and ending December 31.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Regions declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each of the Regions shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
each of the Regions shall make adequate and timely budgeting provisions for the 
implementation of that part of the Project for which such Region is financially 
responsible.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Regions shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Regions shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each of the Regions shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which  interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by such 
Region of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. In order to assist in coordinating and carrying out the Project, 
each of the Regions shall, at regional, prefecture (league) and county levels: (i) 
maintain Project Coordinating
Committees, with membership, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) maintain Project Management Offices with staff, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.06. Each of the Regions shall prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review by November 1 of each year, a detailed work and financing plan for the 
implementation of the Project during the following year.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Regions shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition in respect of activities related to its part of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Regions shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, each of the Regions 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.02. Each of the Regions shall ensure that water charges be set and 
adjusted as necessary to cover at least the full operation and maintenance costs not 
later than:
(a)
FY 1997 in respect of all irrigation schemes under Part A of the Project; 
and
(b)
(i) FY 1996 in respect of the gravity supply scheme, and (ii) FY 2002 in 
respect of the lift irrigation shemes, under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Regions thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Regions of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Nei Monggol:
Nei Monggol Autonomous Region
  People's Government
No. 1 Xing Hua Avenue
Huhehaote, Nei-Monggol Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
For Ningxia:
Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
  People's Government
No. 217, West Jiefang Street
Yinchuan, Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Regions 
may be taken or executed by the
respective chaiman or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, 
and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the  authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  5
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
NEI MONGGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
NINGXIA HUI AUTONOMOUS REGION
By Han Xu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Equipment, instruments and materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of not 
more than US$200,000 per contract, and aggregating not more than US$1,500,000 under 
Part A and US$1,000,000
Page  6
under Part B, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
bidding procedures  on  the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a 
list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
On-farm works and land development may be carried out by force account 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Except for the trunk drain and the pumping station under Part A of the Project, 
contracts for civil works for earthworks and structures and building construction 
estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent shall be awarded in accordance with 
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the  two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 3 and 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the  Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Regions in carrying out the Project, each of the Regions 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Each of the Regions shall carry out training of Project staff and farmers under 
the Project in accordance with a program agreed with the Association.
2.
Ningxia shall implement the resettlement under Part B of the Project in 
accordance with the plan agreed with the Association. 
Page  7
3.
(a)
Each  of  the  Regions  shall  ensure  that  the Project activities will 
comply  with  the Borrower's environmental control standards acceptable to the 
Association.
(b)
Nei Monggol shall continously monitor water quality in the trunk drain 
and the main drains as well as Wuliangsuhai lake and furnish to the Association annual 
reports of water quality assessment in form an d content satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
Each of the Regions shall: (a) ensure that adequate chemical and other 
fertilizer nutrients will be made available to farmers in the Project Area; and
(b)
to this end, furnish to the Association by November 1 of each year, an 
annual program for the provision of such nutrients.
5.
Ningxia shall: (a) establish a working group, assisted by suitably qualified 
consultants, to study the agricultural development of the Yinbei area, with terms of 
reference for study satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
by June 30, 1991, furnish to the Association a report on said study.
 
6.
Each of the Regions shall furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, guidelines for local competitive bidding, procedures and sample documents, 
by June 30, 1988 and in any case prior to bid invitation.
7.
Nei Monggol shall, for the purposes of efficient management of unified 
irrigation and drainage work, maintain the Hetao Irrigation Area Management General 
Bureau in accordance with the Borrower's national guidelines for management of large 
irrigation areas. For the purpose of such management, Nei Monggol shall prepare a 
draft operation and maintenance manual and furnish to the Association for its review 
and approval, by June 30, 1990.
