FILE.-COPY
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2544-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENGINEERING LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
ANKARA AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
October 3, 1979
This document has a restricted distributien and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank siuthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1      =      TL 47.10
TL 1      =      US$0.021
ABBREVIATIONS
BCM - Environment Protection Undersecretariat
(Basbakanlik Cevre Mustesarligi)
MTA - Mineral Research Institute
NATO - North Atlantic Treaty Organization
TKI - Turkish Coal Board
UNDP - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey - March 1 to February 28



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
TURKEY
ANKARA AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ENGINEERING LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey.
Amount:             US$6.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:              Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years grace, through
semi-annual installments at 7.95 percent per annum. The
loan would be refinanced under any future loan which
the Bank might provide for a full-scale smokeless fuel
project resulting from the work financed by the proposed
Engineering Loan.
Project
Description:        The major purpose is to develop promising methods of
manufacturing smokeless fuel from lignite, and investigate
other possible technologies which may provide a more
appropriate clean fuel to reduce air pollution in Ankara
in the future. The loan will finance:
(i) Consultant services to determine whether internationally
known and established processes could be used to manufac-
ture smokeless fuel using Turkish lignite; and, after
comparing these processes with that employed at Seyitomer,
a feasibility study, together with detailed designs,
tender documents, and cost estimates of the recommended
process;
(ii) Technical and financial assistance to carry out the
necessary modifications and start-up operations on
the existing coking plant at Seyitomer;
(iii) Development of the Mineral Research Institute (MTA) hot
briquetting process by the provision of consultant
services and funds for the design, construction and
operation of a pilot plant of 2-3 ton/hour capacity;
(iv) Consultant services to review and evaluate the feasibility
of producing fuel gas using Turkish lignite as an appro-
priate long-term measure, and to compare its economic
viability with such other long-term alternatives as
district heating, geothermal energy, desulphurization of
oil and distribution of propane gas; and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(v) Procurement of equipment for monitoring of pollution
levels and other facilities to supplement funding from the
UNDP for immediate pollution control measures.
Project Cost Estimates:
Local      ForeiRn     Total
----- US$ (Millions) ------
(i) Feasibility Study for
Alternative Technologies         0.20       1.10        1.30
(ii) Technical Assistance for
Seyitomer Plant                 0.25        0.35       0.60
(iii)  MTA Pilot Plant                  3.00       3.00        6.00
(Consultants                  0.50        1.50       2.00)
(Equipment                     -          1.50       1.50)
(Civil Works                  2.50         -         2.50)
(iv) Feasibility Study of Fuel
Gas                              0.20       0.35        0.55
(v) Pollution Monitoring
Equipment                        0.10       0.55        0.65
(vi) Contingencies
for MTA Plant
Equipment and
Civil works:     Physical (15%) 0.40        0.20        0.60
Price (39%)     1.10       0.45        1.55
TOTAL                     5.25        6.00      11.25
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign     Total
----- US$ (Millions) ------
IBRD                               6.00       6.00
Government             5.25         _5.25
TOTAL                5.25        6.00      11.25



Disbursements:
Half Year     Cumulative
US$ (Millions)
FY80
3rd and 4th Quarters                  1.50           1.50
FY81
1st and 2nd Quarters                  1.50          3.00
3rd and 4th Quarters                  1.50          4.50
FY82
1st and 2nd Quarters                  1.00          5.50
3rd and 4th Quarters                  0.50           6.00
Consultants:         Consultants having international experience in this
specialized field have submitted proposals under items (i)
and (iii) of the project description above, and the
proposals are being evaluated. Terms of reference for
item (iv) are being finalized and invitations will be
issued shortly. The contractor for the Seyitomer plant
(item ii) will perform the required services. The consul-
tant services required are estimated at about 300 man-
months for foreign consultants at a cost of US$9,500 per
man-month including overheads, allowances, travel and per
diem and 80 man-months of local experts at US$3,000 per
man-month.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ENGINEERING LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN ANKARA AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Engineering Loan of US$6.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Turkey, to
help finance the foreign exchange costs of consultant services, materials
and equipment to help reduce the severe winter air pollution in Ankara. The
proposed loan would have a term of 10 years, including 2 years of grace, with
interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979, to
review the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83) approved by the Parliament at the
end of 1979. Its draft report is scheduled to be discussed with the Govern-
ment in October. Meanwhile, the mission's tentative findings are reflected
below. Annex 1 contains the Basic Country Data.
Patterns of Past Development Policies
3.        In many respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, GDP increased 6.4 percent during the First
Plan period (1963-67), 6.7 percent during the Second Plan period (1968-72),
and 7.2 percent during the Third Plan period (1973-77). This compares
favorably with the experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries,
whose GDP grew on an average 6.0 percent per annum during the period 1960-70
and 6.1 percent per annum during the period 1970-77. The relatively high
growth rate in Turkey was achieved, moreover, without the availability of
significant deposits of oil or other predominant natural resources, and within
a democratic political framework.
4.        Rapid economic growth was accompanied by significant social changes.
Population growth remained fairly high (2.5 percent per annum), but since GDP
growth was also fairly high, it allowed a relatively fast growth in per capita
income. However, rising income levels were not accompanied by better income
distribution. Due largely to uneven land distribution, there is a high degree
of income inequality in the agricultural sector. There are also significant
regional inequalities in income. Nevertheless, basic needs have been satisfac-
torily met in both urban and rural areas. Overall, there was a substantial
improvement in living conditions, the quality of life, nutrition, housing,
education, social services and health care. However, living conditions for
the urban poor worsened due to a significant migration to urban areas and the
resulting overcrowding and strain on urban infrastructure.



- 2 -
5.        The public sector has played and continues to play a key role
in economic and social development. Between 1963 and 1977, public sector
fixed investment as a percent of total fixed investment increased from 50
percent to 55 percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing
increased from 21 percent to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates
basic industries. Nevertheless, the private sector has emerged as an increas-
ingly important and dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift
its orientation from consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and
from the domestic market to exports. Private sector investment has increased
at nearly 11.5 percent per year in real terms during 1967-77 compared to an
average annual increase of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.        Turkish development during 1963-77, however, exhibits a number of
structural characteristics which are of great relevance for future development
policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita income, Turkey
has an extremely low level of exports relative to GDP, as against a more or
less "normal" import level. This highlights the vulnerability of the balance-
of-payments and the key importance of export development to sustain the
foreign exchange needs of future investments. Second, while the level of
investment relative to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with that
for other developing countries, the mobilization of domestic savings has
lagged and the ratio of domestic savings to GDP is considerably below the
average for middle income countries. The growing gap between domestic savings
and investment has led to a relatively high level of external borrowing
(particularly after workers' remittances stagnated after the mid-seventies),
and domestic inflationary pressures emanating from excess aggregate demand and
deficit financing. Third, a relatively high proportion of the labor force is
still in agriculture, reflecting significant disguised unemployment and the
need for accelerated job creation in non-agricultural activities. The propor-
tion of the labor force employed in industry is quite low compared to other
large middle income countries. The relatively poor performance on employment
creation has become a more serious issue following the near cessation of
workers' migration to Europe since 1974.
The Recent Economic Crisis and Short-Term Issues
7.        These structural weaknesses of the Turkish economy made it parti-
cularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in oil prices in 1974 and the simul-
taneous existence of recession, inflation and rising unemployment in the
industrial countries. These external factors played a major part in the
deterioration of the Turkish economic situation. However, the weakness of
successive governments and the policies adopted in response to these develop-
ments played at least as important a role in creating the economic crisis
that began in 1977.
8.         The sharp worsening of the international environment was met by
an effort to raise the rate of GDP growth. This was set in motion by a rapid
increase in investment and consumption expenditures, spearheaded essentially
by the public sector. The growth rate of public investment in 1974-77 was



four and half times higher than in 1970-73; the growth rate of public con-
sumption nearly doubled. The budget deficit as a percentage of GDP increased;
the rate of increase of money supply accelerated to finance the growth of
expenditure and there was a sharp increase in the rate of inflation.
9.        These developments were accompanied by and related to unfavorable
developments in the balance-of-payments. Merchandise exports declined in
volume terms and grew only slowly in terms of value, while imports continued
to increase rapidly. The slowdown of exports can be explained partly by the
unfavorable situation in the importing countries, at a time when the booming
domestic economy provided a profitable market for substantial domestic absorp-
tion of output. Similarly, about half of the explosive growth of imports was
due to rising world prices, especially of oil, but the other half was due to a
steep rise in the volume of imports, to sustain a booming domestic economy and
an escalated investment program. The problems were aggravated by a decline
in workers' remittances caused by the worsening recession in Western Europe, a
holding back of remittances by workers abroad in anticipation of major exchange
rate adjustments and a diversion of remittances to other channels as the
difference between unofficial and official exchange rates increased.
10.       The Government's reaction to the strained balance-of-payments and
the exhaustion of the foreign exchange reserves was to sustain high levels of
investment and growth through external borrowing, mainly on a short-term
basis, given the absence of significant long-term assistance at that time.
Short-term external debt increased from $1.4 billion in 1975 to $6.6 billion
at the end of 1977. By mid 1977, a crisis stage was reached; the inflow of
external capital dried up, and the boom collapsed, leaving in its wake a host
of domestic and external problems which needed resolution before the economy
could resume stable growth.
Short-term Stabilizaton Efforts and IMF Standby Programs
11.       In early 1978, the Government initiated a stabilization program that
formed the basis for a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in April 1978. It was
designed to lead towards a balance-of-payments equilibrium and reduced infla-
tion through a four-pronged approach, encompassing increases in savings,
stimulation of exports, higher M&LT foreign borrowing and rescheduling of
short-term debts. At year's end, however, the outcome was mixed if compared
to the targets and goals set forth in the stabilization package. The balance-
of-payments position remained weak, although the current account deficit
declined to $1.71 billion, which was less than half of the 1977 deficit and
below the target set in the Standby. This was achieved through a notable
increase in exports, but even more importantly through a sharp curtailment of
imports, well below the Standby's goals. The resulting lack of imported
inputs had a substantial adverse impact on domestic output, particularly in
the manufacturing sector. At the same time, some importers made greater use
of the unofficial foreign exchange market, financed largely through workers'
remittances; this resulted in stagnation of official transfers of such remit-
tances.



12.       One cause of weakness of the balance-of-payments position was the
low inflow of M&LT foreign credits. The mobilization of such capital proved
more difficult than expected. Besides, slow project implementation caused
disbursements of M&LT credits to be lower than was envisaged in early 1978.
The net capital inflow was about $900 million in 1978; the overall balance of
payments deficit was $950 million and was financed by drawings from the IMF
and short-term funds from various sources.
13.       More disappointing however, was the performance with regard to
domestic resource mobilization. The consolidated budget deficit of TL 35
billion was significantly larger than anticipated. State Economic Enterprise
(SSE) losses, at about TL 50 billion, were higher than in 1977, in spite of
periodic major increases in SEE prices during the year. Wage settlements in
both the public and private sectors pushed up average nominal wages by about
50 percent. There was a sizeable increase in public sector borrowings from
the Central Bank; the resulting monetary expansion (37 percent growth over
the previous year) combined with the cost push effects of wage increases and
import restrictions, raised the price level by about 50 percent during 1978;
it continued to rise at a similar rate in the first half of 1979. These
developments, by far, exceeded the limits envisaged in the Standby. Discus-
sions between Turkey and the IMF in late 1978 could not lead to mutually
satisfactory solutions. Consequently, they were postponed and the withdrawals
against the Standby were suspended by the end of the year.
14.       In early 1979 the Government announced a new stabilization program,
undertook a series of financial measures, and then concluded a new Standby
Arrangement with the IMF in July 1979. The principal measures taken may be
summarized as follows: (a) to improve the financial position of SEEs, addi-
tional price increases ranging from 34 percent to 110 percent were announced
for a number of important products, raising these prices above their import
costs at the new exchange rate; these increases are estimated to yield an
additional TL 80 billion in the current fiscal year and thus help to reduce
the overall borrowing requirement of the public sector; (b) to ensure more
effective mobilization and allocation of resources, interest rates for both
deposits and loans were increased substantially, from up to a maximum of 16%
p.a. to over 24% p.a. in key economic sectors; repatriated savings of migrant
workers were allowed an additional special premium; (c) to improve the
current account balance, the TL was devalued in several steps until June 11,
when a new buying rate of TL 47.10 per US$1 was established for most foreign
trade and all invisibles 1/; the new exchange rate represents a depreciation
in export-weighted terms of nearly 75 percent since the end of 1970, and more
than offsets the differential inflation rate between Turkey and its major
trading partners during the course of 1978-79; and (d) to stimulate industrial
1/   Excluding exports of certain agricultural products (amounting to about
60 percent of total merchandise exports in 1978) and imports of crude
petroleum, petroleum products and chemical inputs for the production of
fertilizer (amounting to about 35 percent of total merchandise imports
in 1978); for these products a rate of TL 35 per $1 is used.



-5 -
exports, exporters of manufactured and mining products, were, in addition,
allowed to retain 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to finance
their own import requirements or those of their local suppliers.
15.       The new Standby was approved by the IMF Board in midJuly, covering
a twelve month period up to June 30, 1980. It foresees total purchases of SDR
250 million in three tranches--up to SDR 70 million before end of November,
SDR 130 million by the end of March 1980, and then the balance of SDR 50 mil-
lion. It provides for a series of specific performance targets designed
to strengthen public finance, reduce inflation and improve the balance-of-
payments situation in the short term. On the balance-of-payments side it:
(a) stipulates continuation of an exchange rate policy conducive to the main-
tenance of Turkey's competitive position in foreign markets, to be reviewed
before the release of the November 1979 tranche and again before that of the
March 1980 tranche; (b) excludes introduction of any new multiple currency
practices; (c) places limits on outstanding foreign arrears and their repay-
ments in an orderly fashion to be achieved through further debt rescheduling;
(d) limits contracting of new public sector or government guaranteed foreign
debt with an original maturity of less than ten years to US$1 billion during
the period of the Standby, of which not more than US$500 million with maturi-
ties of less than 5 years. On the public finance side, it: (a) limits total
net public sector borrowing in 1979 to TL 155 billion (about 7 percent less
than in 1978), with the level for 1980 to be determined in common understand-
ing with IMF before the end of November; (b) limits net new Central Bank
credits to the public sector to TL 94 billion during FY 1979 (about 8 percent
more than in 1978), and limits net domestic assets of the Central Bank to TL
444 billion by February 1980, the level thereafter to be determined in common
understanding with IMF before the end of March 1980; and (c) envisages con-
tinuation of the current policy of flexible and realistic SEE prices and
improved operating efficiency, to reduce the SEE deficits from 4.4 percent of
GDP in 1978 to 3.5 percent in 1979.
16.       The July 1979 Standby envisages that implementation of these mea-
sures would prevent further deterioration in the current account balance
during 1979, with essential imports projected to remain at about the same
level as last year in real terms ($5.0 billion). A substantial increase in
workers' remittances, which totalled over $900 million between January and
June 1979 against $975 million for the whole of 1978, would compensate for the
increasing interest payments on foreign debt. At the same time, disbursements
of medium- and long-term foreign aid, (including the Bank's First Program Loan)
were expected to increase markedly in 1979, thus sharply reducing the need
for renewed, short-term borrowing.
17.       Results during the first half of 1979 are in line with these expect-
ations. With imports increasing by over 7 percent and exports by 22 percent,
the foreign trade deficit has slightly declined (to $1,225 million) compared
to the similar period in 1978, but receipts from tourism and workers' remit-
tances have nearly tripled, so that the current account deficit has sharply
declined from over $926 million during the first six months of 1978 to $115
million during the same period of 1979. Furthermore, net medium- and long-
term borrowing increased, substantially exceeding the current account deficit



- 6 -
by a considerable margin, so that there was no need for short-term foreign
borrowing, and foreign exchange reserves increased sizeably. Even though
growth of workers' remittances could well slow down during the second half of
the year and the import bill is almost certain to go up with higher petroleum
prices, the Standby goals are likely to be met for the year as a whole, as far
as the balance-of-payments is concerned. Inflation has shown little sign of
decline so far, and is still running above 50 percent on an annual basis.
However, the Standby expects little improvement in 1979, since new measures
need time to exercise their full impact, which cannot be expected before
sometime in 1980.
18.       This high rate of inflation remains an urgent problem.   While there
are many underlying "real" and institutional factors involved, the monetary
aspects are particularly important from the short run policy point of view.
The rapid increase in the public sector deficits, aggravated by reluctance
until mid-1977 to realistically adjust prices of SSEs and by their sizeable
investment programs despite large operating losses, led to resort to Central
Bank credit. This contributed to excessive monetary expansion and consequent
rapid inflation.
19.       The critical issue is the basic role of exports in short and medium-
term development strategy. Turkey's rather low export orientation in the
mid-seventies is demonstrated by the 1977 ratio of exports as a percentage
of GDP, which was 4 percent, i.e. lower than any comparable developing country.
Recognizing the need for a fundamental structural change in this orientation,
the Ecevit Government has taken, although not always in time, a series of
policy and administrative measures towards this critical objective. Export
incentive and rebate schemes put into operation, however, still need to be
matched by further reduction in administrative procedures governing exports
and establishment of institutions that. support and sustain a vigorous export
effort on a continuing basis. The adjustment in 1979 in the exchange rate
of the TL, to make it realistic and competitive, needs to be rigorously
maintained. Such adjustments would also ensure a steady flow of worker
remittances. This reorientation is crucial to strengthen the balance
of payments and provide a sound basis on which investments needed to resume
steady economic growth can be sustained.
20.       Another major problem concerns external debt which the Government
has now begun to face through: (a) slowing the growth of short-term liabili-
ties; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new sources of
credits, especially medium and long-term (M&LT) credits. In the past year
the short-term external debt continued to grow; but the Government has been
successful in arranging debt relief and increasing the commitment as well as
inflow of M&LT funds. The first debt relief operation was arranged through
the OECD consortium for Turkey in May 1978, and involved consolidation of
$1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT debt, as
well as amounts due over the 18 months period May 21, 1978-June 30, 1979. A
second such major rescheduling of the official bilateral and private guaran-
teed credits, involving about $1.02 billion due between July 1, 1979 and June
30, 1980, took place in July 1979. A third major rescheduling arrangement
was finalized in July and August 1979 with commercial banks to reschedule



- 7 -
convertible lira deposits ($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million)
and third party reimbursement credits ($300 million). The total amount
rescheduled under these arrangements is about $5.2 billion.
21.       The Government has been successful, though in a limited way, in
diversifying sources, and increasing the level of, M&LT commitments. Turkey
secured commitments of $547 million in 1978 in program loans and oil import
financing credits from Libya and Iran. Along with the rescheduling of the
short-term liabilities with the commercial banks, agreement was reached
in July 1979 with a group of banks for $407 million of medium-term credits.
In addition, an agreement was recently reached with the Saudi Fund for $250
million in project credits. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived
at so far has been the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in
special assistance, involving mostly M&LT bilateral credits and trade finan-
cing credits. In the remaining half of 1979, nearly $750 million is estimated
to be disbursed from these commitments.
22.       With these debt relief operations, Turkey has arranged to consolidate
a good part of its arrears and short-term liabilities, and is on the way to
bringing order into an extremely critical debt situation. However, the debt
service burden will remain high. Commercial creditworthiness has not yet been
restored, as evidenced by the demands for full cash coverage for routine
commercial transactions, and Turkey's borrowing position remains vulnerable.
Beginining in the early 1980s, Turkey will be faced with a hump in its debt
service, which remains a cause for major concern, before it declines.
Fourth Plan and Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Recovery Strategy
23.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83) was approved by Parliament in
late November 1978. This Plan, in many essential ways, carries on the tradi-
tional lines of Turkish development planning. It sets out to complete the
tasks of the Third Plan, but also attempts to address a number of development
issues which have come to the fore during the current crisis. While the
issues are recognized and addressed, not all of them are faced up to in an
adequate fashion. For example, emphasis on a high growth rate, a large
investment allocation for import substitution in basic industry, and reliance
on administrative regulations and control rather than market incentives--the
hallmarks of the previous Plans--still manifest themselves in the new Plan.
24.       The Plan's growth targets are ambitious, especially when the present
economic situation and short-term prospects are taken into account. Since
the first two or three years of the Plan are likely to remain a period of
consolidation and stabilization, during which annual GDP growth is unlikely to
average more than 3 to 4 percent, an average annual growth rate of 8.2 percent
during the Plan period will clearly be unachievable. However, the priority
given to export development (especially of manufactured goods), implicit in
the very high export growth targets of the Plan (averaging 18 percent per
annum in real terms), represents a basic structural change in Turkish economic
policy. However, the investment allocations in the Plan provide mixed signals,
since despite dominance of import substitution objectives for manufacturing



-8-
investments, medium-term investment priorities are stated to be: completion
of priority on-going projects instead of several new ones; emphasis on quick-
yielding productive and export earning investments; essential investments
required to eliminate critical infrastructural bottlenecks; and those having a
large import saving or employment impact.
25.       The Plan implies a net capital inflow of about $1.6 billion per
annum in 1978 prices. Assuming international inflation of close to 8 percent
per year, this is equivalent to a net annual inflow in current prices of about
$2 billion. Annual amortization of medium and long-term debt is projected at
around $2 billion. This implies a gross external capital inflow of about $4
billion a year between 1979-83, which is a rather high and, perhaps unreal-
istic, level. Given the limited access in the coming years to foreign capital,
the unlikelihood of achieving the planned marginal saving ratio of 34 percent,
and the conclusion (in para. 24) that the GDP growth rate is likely to be
lower than the Plan target, the high level of annual investments is likely to
remain only a paper objective. At the same time, to avoid a recurrence of
excessive reliance on Central Bank borrowings and injudicious external borrow-
ings to finance SEE investments, one cannot overstate the critical importance
of improving SEE financial and economic management so that they can generate
during the Plan period the sizeable resources needed to finance their invest-
ments.
26.       These brief comments on the Fourth Plan suggest the improbability
of Turkey achieving the growth targets of that Plan. The crux of the medium-
term issue is therefore the way in which the Government will continue to
adjust, as it has since early 1978 through policy changes, shortfalls in any
of the efforts to be made to mobilize available resources for the implementa-
tion of the Plan.
27.       The recent directions of Turkish economic policy suggest that, in
essence, the Government is prepared to exercise flexibility in pursuance of
medium-term recovery. A formal statement of the medium-term development
strategy in the Fourth Plan document meets what is a constitutional require-
ment in Turkey. However, actions so far indicate that this document is being
pragmatically interpreted by the Government more as a statement of the general
directions in which Turkey could move, rather than specific targets which must
be fulfilled at any cost. The flexibility to modify Plan targets to meet the
exigencies of a fluid economic situation, through the mechanism of Annual
Programs approved by the Parliament pari passu with the Annual Budget, is a
known feature of the Turkish developmental system. This should therefore
enable the Government to respond to the need for changes in policy, to ensure
sound economic recovery in both the short and the medium-term. For example,
while the Government had already announced its 1979 Annual Program as required
by law in February 1979, actual 1979 expenditures are expected to be signif-
icantly limited by the restrictions agreed to in the Standby made with the
IMF in July 1979. Similar limits on the magnitudes of expenditures and
investments are likely to apply in 1980 and 1981 under future Standbys.



- 9 -
28.       There is now more widespread recognition in Turkey than ever before
that a rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings is essential to maintaining
a satisfactory pace of economic development. If the ambitious export targets
of the Fourth Plan (18 percent annual growth in real terms) are to be real-
ized, it will clearly be essential to alter the traditional bias of incentives
against exports, as the present Government has so far consistently endeavoured
to do.
29.       It is however essential for ensuring a successful export promotion
policy that the exchange rate be maintained at a competitive level, taking
account of the relative level of domestic inflation compared with the outside
world. The Government has already expressed, under the July 1979 Standby,
its determination to implement an appropriate exchange rate policy. This
fundamental matter can be expected to be rigorously monitored by IMF for
releasing its tranches, and is likely to be the focal point under the next
Standby.
30.       With gross capital inflow requirements expected to remain large,
increasing from about $2.9 billion annually during 1980-82 to $4.6 billion
in 1983-85, management of external debt remains critical for medium-term
financial viability and hence, for the availability of the imports needed
to permit resumption of growth.
31.       Resumption of major inflows of capital remains a source of concern
for two important reasons. First, the large overhang of debt and the recent
reschedulings together raise a question regarding the need for further resched-
ulings in the early 1980s. A critical element here is the likely posture of
commercial creditors, which cannot easily be anticipated. Secondly, there is
the issue of arrears on non-guaranteed export credits, estimated at around
$1.0 billion. Several options are being considered to solve this issue,
mainly involving rescheduling operations similar to those undertaken for
other overdue short-term liabilities. The appropriate medium-term policies
on foreign debt have their roots in the short-term measures being implemented
under the current Standby Arrangement (para. 20) and will largely be an
extension of these measures over time.
32.       In 1977, total debt service payments amounted to 22.2 percent of
exports of goods, non-factor services and workers' remittances; in 1978, it
had riser. to 26.7 percent even after making allowance for the rescheduled
service payments. In 1980, it is projected to reach close to 35 percent and
will increase further in subsequent years since Turkey has to take on new
borrowings to maintain sound economic growth. Taking these factors into
account, the debt service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s at
a high level of about 40 percent, before it begins to decline. This, however,
should represent the culmination of the financial consequence of the present
crisis and should be manageable, provided the export drive is sustained
and, equally important, a prudent debt management policy is formulated and
effectively implemented.



- 10 -
33.       To stimulate private savings (and reduce distortions of investment
priorities) interest rates were raised significantly in early 1979 (para. 19),
but they are not yet commensurate with the current high rate of inflation. It
is important that interest rates be reviewed periodically to minimize renewed
distortions. The bulk of the increased domestic savings effort, however, has
to be made by the public sector, in particular the SEEs. While the already
substantial tax effort of Turkey, ranking it relatively high among developing
countries, precludes drastic improvements from that side, there is a wide
margin for improving the financial performance of many SEEs. Primary respon-
sibility for their poor financial results lies in their past pricing policies,
usually decided outside the enterprises and often based on political rather
than economic reasoning. In the face of persistent high inflation, continuing
price adjustments will be necessary to prevent renewed deterioration in the
financial performance of SEEs. Further reasons for SEE losses are inefficient
management, poor industrial relations, excessive labor force, and technical
weaknesses in design and operations which result in low productivity and
wasteful use of inputs. Operating almost exclusively in the over-protected
domestic market, and with easy access to budget support and credit, they have
had little incentive to improve efficiency or to earn profits. The recent
institution of production and export targets for some SEEs are therefore steps
in the right direction. These ought to be complimented by the establishment
of annual profit targets for each major enterprise. As mentioned before, the
Standby envisages that such measures will reduce SEE deficits by some 15
percent (in current US$) or about 0.9 percent of GDP in 1979. This is again
clearly an area which can be monitored by IMF for releasing its tranches, and
one that can be expected to be covered in the next Standby.
34.       Equally important, is the issue of the composition of the investment
program. This will demand imposition of rigorous vigilance to hold to the
Government's stated investment priorities:   (a) to promote export oriented and
productive projects in general, but particularly agricultural projects; (b) to
complete those priority ongoing projects which will yield speedy and substan-
tial returns with modest increases in the allotment of additional funds; (c)
to promote employment creating projects and only those infrastructural proj-
ects which are needed to relieve serious bottlenecks to balanced recovery--
such as power, ports and the like. Implementation of these priorities will
require substantial flexibility and dexterity on the part of Government. As
a first step, the State Planning Office has expressed strong interest in dis-
cussing the findings of the last economic mission with Bank staff at an early
date, before it prepares its 1980 investment program.
Conclusion
35.       Continuation of prudently planned and rigorously implemented short-
term and medium-term economic and fiscal policies by the Government will be
crucial for Turkey to translate the progress so far made into a medium-term
recovery that ensures stable growth. Continuing political difficulties will
make this task by any government difficult. However, the powerful steps taken
earlier this year and adherence to the additional commitments under the July
1979 Standby Agreement with IMF, which the Government seems determined to
implement, should help facilitate a sound recovery on a stable basis. With



- 11 -
the short-term debt reschedulings so far made on relatively hard terms,
external debt management remains critical for medium-term financial recovery
and the availability of imports needed to permit resumption of sound growth.
It results in a relatively high, though perhaps manageable debt service ratio
which is likely to peak at well over 40 percent by 1982/83, before gradually
declining. With the additional borrowings which Turkey must make to maintain
such a growth, the country will need the support of the international economic
and financial communities, both through a further rescheduling of outstanding
debt and provision of new financing, on more generous terms. With stch
support and adherence to judicious economic and debt management policies,
Turkey continues to be creditworthy in the medium-term for an increased level
of Bank support.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
36.       A large and continuing lending program for Turkey essentially began
in 1970 following the success of Turkey's 1970 stabilization program. To
date, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,114 million through 58 projects. Agriculture
accounts for 30 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent,
power for 14 percent and urban development, transportation, education and
tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of August 31, 1979, with notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
37.       Since mid-1975, while the implementation of private sector projects
was satisfactory, political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst minis-
tries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project implemen-
tation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews
between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. These resulted in
distinct, but modest improvements up to the end of 1977. The situation was
therefore reviewed with the new Ecevit Government in March 1978, and further
discussed during my visit in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a
new high-level Coordination Team for Bank projects. This Team set up proce-
dures for monitoring and achieving realistic implementation and disbursement
targets, and reviewed possible changes in sector policy covenants which, be-
cause of Turkish laws and practices, constrained effective project performance.
As of July 31, 1979, disbursements increased to 73 percent of appraisal esti-
mates against 51 percent in June 1975. A further successful implementation
review was held in April. The encouraging progress and constructive coopera-
tion which have now become manifest allow cautious optimism that performance
will gradually improve further, permitting an expansion of Bank lending.
38.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn or save foreign exchange, through promotion of
industrial and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment
opportunities and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c)
lagging public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved manage-
ment and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure
which poses bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with



- 12 -
the Government on how its lending can best contribute to the new Plan's
objectives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped by past
policy and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry
remain the key sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize
livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts.
39.       A thirteenth TSKB Loan designed to stimulate investments in export
projects of the private sector, was approved by the Executive Directors on
July 12, 1979, and a loan for a Private Sector Textile Project was approved on
September 4, 1979. Other projects being processed for this and future fiscal
years include projects for public sector textiles modernization, livestock,
fruit and vegetables, livestock products, rural development, fertilizer, pilot
secondary oil recovery, employment generation in selected cities, pulp manu-
facture and seed production and transport and sewerage development in Istanbul.
40.       At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 12.6 percent. This
share is expected to remain the same in 1981, and to increase to 13.7 percent
by 1985. The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (includ-
ing short-term obligations) was 5.9 percent in 1978, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and to 12.5 percent by 1985. The Bank's share of
service payments on medium and long-term debt is projected to fall slightly
from its level of 7.7 percent in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1981, thereafter
increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
41.       IFC has invested in projects for synthetic yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings
and cylinder liners, and tourism, besides in TSKB. As of August 31, 1979,
gross IFC commitments totalled $206 million, of which $100 million were still
held by IFC. Additional investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART III - BACKGROUND ON AIR POLLUTION IN ANKARA
The Air Pollution Problem in Ankara
42.       Situated at an altitude of 800 meters on the Anatolian Plateau,
Ankara, the capital of Turkey, is exposed to severe winter conditions. The
central, heavily populated area of the city is surrounded by hills, so that it
is essentially sitting at the bottom of a shallow bowl. This topographical
feature and the climate combine to inhibit air dilution and make the winter
air pollution problem far more serious than it is in other cities using the
same fuel for domestic heating. Except when a fairly strong wind is blowing
in Ankara, the pollution from the chimneys of houses, apartments, offices and
industrial plants hangs over the city in a dense, poisonous, sooty cloud.
Besides causing general inconvenience and discomfort, it results in serious
respiratory and bronchial problems for the population.



- 13 -
43.       The principal heating fuels are lignite, fuel oil and wood.    Ankara
currently consumes annually approximately 1.2 million tons of lignite and
350,000 tons of fuel oil; wood plays a relatively minor role. Demand for
heating fuel is increasing at approximately 5 percent a year. Because of the
significantly higher calorific value of smokeless coke or briquettes compared
to untreated lignite, it is estimated that Ankara's annual demand for lignite-
based smokeless fuel would be of the order of 700,000 tons to replace the
present 1.2 million tons of lignite.
44.       Turkish authorities have long been concerned with this air pollution
problem, but only within the past decade have active steps been taken to try
to control it. A study by NATO during 1969-72 led to the establishment of a
monitoring network in Ankara and the development of a pollutant-emission
inventory and dispersion model for that city. Several consultants, under the
auspices of the UNDP, have visited the city and given advice to the Government,
especially since 1975. Following the establishment of the Ecevit Government
in January, 1978, UNDP/WHO were asked to advise on the creation of an Environ-
mental Protection Undersecretariat (BCM). This has now been set up in the
Prime Minister's Office, under the direct responsibility of a Deputy Prime
Minister. It is currently headed by an Undersecretary, and has a small staff
consisting of a Deputy Undersecretary, a Secretary General, a Technical
Director and a Legal Adviser. The detailed functions and responsibilities of
the BCM are still being defined. Its staff is expected to grow rapidly once
the required executive decisions have been made.
45.       Pollution in Ankara is aggravated because the fuel oil burned is
highly sulphurous and the lignite is of poor quality. Consequently they
produce sulphur dioxide (SO2) and suspended particulates (smoke), both of
which are the primary causes of the pollution . These fuels account for
about 95 percent of the sulphur oxides and about 75 percent of the suspended
particulates measured in Ankara during the winter months. The balance of the
pollution is caused by transportation, industrial processes and incineration
of wastes.
46.       The reports of various UNDP/WHO experts conclude that sulphur
dioxide (SO ) concentrations in Ankara during winter season of 1974-77 aver-
aged 300-506 micrograms per cubic meter of air (ug/m3). These levels of
concentrations are unusually high, and exceed air quality standards in all
countries where standards exist. During these years, 24-hour peak concentra-
tion of over 1,000 ug/m3 had been observed. These levels constitute a serious
health risk, especially when occurring in combination with particulate matter.
When levels of SO2 exceed 115 ug/m3 there are usually higher rates of
bronchitis and emphysema, increased chronic respiratory disease in older
persons, reduced lung function, and increased frequency and severity of lower
respiratory diseases in school children. Acute episodes with increased
mortality were observed when the 24 hour SO average concentrations exceeded
715 ug/m3. Increased hospital admissions oi older persons with respiratory
diseases were noted in many cities of the world when the 24 hour mean SO2
concentrations were 300-500 ug/m3. Tests in Ankara by the Ministry of Health



- 14 -
and Turkish Scientific and Technical Research Institute (TBTAK) since 1970
show that peak levels of SO and particulate concentration in the air have
exceeded 1,000 ug/m3 more than once each winter. This compares with WHO's
recommended limit of 150 ug/m3.
47.       One of the 1974 WHO studies concluded that the air pollution levels
in Ankara were as high as those previously reached in London, Tokyo and other
cities, where deaths from such pollution were reported during severe air
pollution concentrations. Ankara could be experiencing similar hazards
without recording the deaths. Controlled lung tests on children in Ankara,
compared with those in the villages, as well as summer versus winter tests,
show some correlation between adverse health effects and levels of air pollu-
tion.
48.       The longer the situation continues, the more serious it will become,
as the population of Ankara grows rapidly. The elimination of the problem is
a long-term objective which will take years to achieve. However, steps to
control the pollution are already being initiated. The purpose of the pro-
posed Engineering Loan is to intensify the search for optimum solutions both
in the short and long term, leading to a construction project for a smokeless
fuel plant as an initial measure, besides identification of feasible long-term
alternatives for eventually eliminating the air pollution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and History
49.       The conception and development of this project has been unusually
rapid. Its history goes back only one year. In the spring of 1978, the
Turkish authorities asked a high level Bank mission, then discussing the
future course of the Bank's relations with Turkey, whether the Bank might
be able to help alleviate Ankara's winter air pollution problem. Prior to
that, the Bank's knowledge of the situation was only a general awareness of
the seriousness of the problem, and of the studies which had been undertaken
in the late sixties and early seventies.
50.       The Bank's response to the request for assistance was positive.   In
the late summer of 1978 the BCM sent preliminary feasibility studies on: (i)
a hot briquetting plant, and (ii) a district central heating scheme. BCM
expected that one or both of these schemes would be rapidly financed by the
Bank as a first step in alleviating the pollution problem. The arrival of
these documents was followed closely by a visit in October from the Deputy
Prime Minister in charge of environmental matters, and the Undersecretary
for Environment. The two schemes, together with other possibilities, were
discussed at length; but the preliminary nature of the feasibility reports
caused the Bank to be cautious in making commitments on the timing of any
possible construction loan.



- 15 -
51.       In December 1978 a reconnaissance mission went to Turkey.    It
visited the Mineral Research Institute's (MTA) hot briquetting laboratory test
plant in Ankara and the Turkish Coal Board's (TKI) coking plant in Seyitomer,
about 500 km west of Ankara. It discussed and reviewed the proposed central
Ankara district heating scheme. The mission also discussed immediate short-
term measures for air pollution control, which have been sponsored by UNDP and
WHO over the past few years, and studies related to determining the optimum
long-term solution for the provision of clean fuels.
52.       This mission came to the conclusion that:   (i) the hot briquetting
process developed by the MTA could not be scaled up from a 200 kg/hour labo-
ratory test plant to a 150,000 ton/year commercial plant, as suggested by the
Turkish authorities, without taking unacceptable financial and technical
risks; (ii) the Ankara district central heating proposal required considerably
more investigation before any investment decision could be made; and (iii) an
initial solution lay in identifying technically and economically viable pro-
cesses to produce a smokeless fuel using Turkish lignite, and then building
a plant to produce it. The mission also concluded that the completed TKI
coking plant at Seyitomer, which had the potential of providing Ankara almost
immediately with urgently needed smokeless fuel, should be put into efficient
operation without further delay; the plant had been idle since construction was
completed in August 1976 due to technical difficulties and legal disputes with
the contractor. The Bank therefore recommended that an Engineering Loan be
considered to help design and construct a pilot plant using the MTA process,
for modifications and start-up operations on the TKI coking plant, together
with financing for studies to identify other possible intermediate and long-
term solutions.
53.       In March 1979 an appraisal mission visited Ankara and discussed in
detail the terms of reference for the various studies. A list of experienced
consultants in this highly specialized field was drawn up by TKI and agreed by
the Bank. Proposals from consultants for the Alternative Technology Study and
for the design of the MTA Pilot Plant (paras. 55 and 60 below) were received
prior to negotiations and discussed with the negotiating team. Negotiations
were held in Washington from June 24 to 26, 1979. The Turkish negotiating
team was headed by Mr. Alaeddin Yoruk, Acting Financial Counsellor of the
Turkish Embassy, and included representatives from TKI, BCM and MTA.
Project Description
54.       A brief outline of the Project is given in the Loan and Project
Summary. Annex IV contains a list of documents in the Project File. A more
detailed description follows, with explanations as to why the various specific
components are included in the proposed Engineering Loan.
55.       Alternative Technology Study:   The purpose of this study is to
determine, as the basis for making future investment decisions, whether there
are existing and proven technologies currently operating in other countries
which could be readily used to produce smokeless fuel (such as briquettes or
lump coke) from the lignite mined in Turkey. One process is currently being
tested in Turkey (para. 56), but the plant has yet to be made operational.
Before committing large investments to the duplication of this or any other



- 16 -
plant, it would be prudent for the Government to determine whether the same
end result could be achieved more economically through some other already
proven and evaluated process. If this study does point to an existing process
as being the optimum method for manufacturing smokeless fuel, taking into
account the process used by the TKI plant at Seyitomer (para. 56), the con-
sultants would prepare detailed designs and tender documents sufficient to
proceed with tendering for the plant using the selected process. Furthermore,
the consultants reports and analysis would provide data needed for appraisal
of the project by any external agency.
56.       Start-Up of TRI Coking Plant at Seyitomer:   This plant was built by
two contractors on a "design and construction" basis for the TKI. The first
part of the plant dries and sizes the lignite from the adjacent mine. The
second unit, the carbonization section, cools and stores the lignite for
shipment.
57.       The start-up of the Seyitomer plant commenced in September 1976.
The drying unit operated satisfactorily, but there was an excess of fines at
the base of the unit and the quantity of fines increased when the dried
lignite was conveyed to the top of the carbonization plant. The start-up of
the carbonization unit was not successful at this time, and the contractor
made certain technical changes by June 1978. Another start-up process was
attempted in August 1978, but frequent and lengthy power and water failures,
combined with other relatively minor technical problems, culminated in the
plant shutting down in September 1978. Since that time, the TKI and the
contractor for the carbonization plant have been discussing further modifica-
tions, and their cost, to remedy the defects. Agreement has now been reached
between the two parties under which TKI will pay the contractor an agreed sum
for the past modifications, and the contractor will make further modifications
to put the plant into operating condition. These modifications, towards which
part of the proposed loan would be used, will enable the plant to operate on a
continuous or an interruptable basis, thereby overcoming the damaging effect
of possible power or water failures.
58.       If, as is expected, this plant can be made to work efficiently, and
if the "alternative technology" study (para. 55) determines that the process
used in the Seyitomer plant is the optimal solution, the construction of
another plant of similar or greater capacity with suitable modifications
could form the basis of a future Bank loan. However, even if the Seyitomer
process is not considered by the consultants to be the most appropriate, the
small amount of Bank funds spent to get the plant operating and producing
smokeless fuel would be well worthwhile, as it would immediately contribute
to some alleviation of Ankara's pollution problem.
59.       The MTA Hot Briquetting Process:   This process has been under
development for the past several years to produce smokeless domestic fuel by
carbonizing crushed lignite to render it smokeless, and briquetting the
resulting char to provide lumps suitable for use in the domestic heating
and cooking appliances currently used in Turkey. The laboratory test plant,
at MTA's headquarters in Ankara, was designed to produce 100-200 kg of thin
briquettes per hour, using lignite from the coal mine at Seyitomer.



- 17 -
60.       MTA's laboratory plant has operated only intermittently, and never
on a continuous basis. While the tests have shown that, under certain speci-
fied conditions, it is possible to produce high quality briquettes from
Seyitomer lignite, the Government would be taking unacceptable technical and
financial risks to scale-up the laboratory test plant to a full scale commer-
cial plant, without first proving the process in a pilot plant, using the
exact technology to be later used in the commercial plant. In several critical
areas, such as the size of the briquette, the combustion process during
carbonization, the movement of hot char to the press, the speed of the press,
and the cooling of the briquette, there will be substantive technological
differences between the existing laboratory plant and any future commercial
plant.
61.       Turkey and the Bank have agreed on this approach.    Current indica-
tions are that if this process is proven for commercial operation, the quality
of fuel produced would be considerably higher than that produced by existing
coking technology. However, this is a long-term solution, since the full-
scale commercial plant is not likely to come on stream until four years after
the building and testing of the pilot plant. The pilot plant itself will
take about two and a half years to design and construct.
62.       Under this component, consultants who have expertise in hot briquet-
ting will be hired to design and supervise the construction of a 2-3 ton/hour
pilot plant on a site about 40 km west of Ankara. TKI is currently in the
process of acquiring this site, and has agreed to complete acquisition not
later than December 31, 1980, by which time the construction of the pilot
plant is expected to begin (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
63.       Long-Term Measures for Pollution Control.   Measures for containing
and eventually reducing air pollution which are under active consideration and
testing are based on currently known technology and materials readily at hand.
Given the urgency of the situation, the Turkish authorities cannot delay the
implementation of available, though perhaps imperfect, solutions in the hope
that future, currently unproven technologies or processes may provide a more
perfect solution. Nevertheless, the Government prudently plans to investigate
other long-term pollution control measures, in the hope of finding a permanent
substitute for lignite as a domestic heating fuel.
64.       The Government's first priority is to investigate the possibility
of producing fuel gas for domestic heating. A preliminary study has been
prepared by the Energy Ministry to determine the feasibility of using lignite
from the Beypazari mine. The investment cost has been very tentatively
estimated at roughly $250 million, with a foreign exchange component of $140
million. This high cost calls for very careful technical and financial
studies before any decisions are made to go ahead with such a proposal.
65.       The technical and economic viability of producing fuel gas from
lignite will also be compared to other long-term alternatives for pollutant-
free heating, such as district central heating, the use of geothermal energy,
desulphurization of oil and distribution of propane gas. The Government has
agreed not to embark upon any investment project for fuel gas until these



- 18 -
studies have been completed (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Terms of Reference
for the study are being finalized and selection of consultants is expected in
the near future.
66.       As mentioned earlier, an initial preliminary study has been done
for the Ankara district heating proposal. This scheme, still in its infancy,
is to use the existing Ankara Municipality power plant in downtown Ankara
as a combined power and heating plant. It is an old plant, commissioned
in 1936, and is now operated only to meet peak requirements. Even if a
decision is made, at a later stage, to institute district heating, it is
doubtful whether it would be sound to try to modify this plant for that
purpose.
67.       The theory of using district central heating in high-density areas
in a city with the environmental problems of Ankara is sound. However, con-
siderably more investigation and evaluation is required to determine whether
the large investments required for such a scheme are worthwhile. The Turkish
authorities have therefore agreed to make the necessary studies.
68.       Immediate Pollution Control Measures.   Technical solutions for the
production of smokeless fuel must be complemented with other pollution control
measures. The several experts in environmental protection who have visited
Ankara recommended not only the creation of the BCM but the imposition of
several short-term control measures. These are either already being imple-
mented and are having an immediate and measurable impact, or are being
seriously considered.
69.       The limited quantities of high-quality anthracite coal in Turkey
are used for industrial purposes, leaving low grades of lignite for domestic
heating. Until the beginning of this year, private coal distributors supplied
a significant proportion of the lignite consumed in Ankara, and usually this
lignite was of the lowest quality. Now TKI controls all the supply and
distribution of lignite in the city, and during the 1978/79 winter all lignite
supplied to Ankara was of fairly good quality. This has already resulted in
some reduction in the sulphur emissions, but has not significantly reduced the
suspended particulates (smoke), because the lignite is burned untreated.
70.       Training courses have been instituted, and are under way, to teach
boiler operators in apartment blocks and offices the correct method of burning
lignite, and how to maintain the equipment to keep it operating as efficiently
as possible. Attention is also being given to the modification of existing
combustion devices to enable efficient burning of currently available fuel.
71.       Ankara has been zoned according to levels of air pollution, and
inspection teams visit the problem zones to ensure that whatever preventive
measures are available are being applied, and that the least polluting fuels
are sold in these areas. This program will have a significant impact when the
first smokeless fuel is made available to the most polluted areas.
72.       The UNDP/WHO proposes to provide additional technical assistance
and training for the monitoring of polluting agents in the air. There are
currently seven fixed monitoring stations in the greater Ankara area operated



- 19 -
by the Ministry of Health and the Turkish Scientific and Technical Research
Organization, but the lack of up-to-date equipment and trained operators is
limiting their usefullness. WHO has reviewed the air pollution monitoring
system in Ankara and has made proposals for the upgrading of the system. It
is planned to upgrade the existing 7 stations and provide an additional 7,
of which 5 will have automatic continuous recording facilities and 9 will be
manually operated. One mobile monitoring van is also needed to complete the
first phase of the system. The BCM or other appropriate agency will implement
the monitoring program one year after the date of the Loan Agreement and
annual reports will be submitted to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
73.       UNDP funds are not sufficient to finance monitoring equipment, and
their contribution will be limited to providing technical assistance and
training. Therefore, under this component of the Engineering Loan, funds will
be used to purchase the mobile monitoring van, and additional equipment for
the fixed monitoring stations.
Project Costs
74.       The total cost of the components covered by the Engineering Loan is
estimated at $11.25 million, with a foreign exchange component of $6.0 million.
The local currency component of $5.25 million equivalent will be borne by the
Government.
75.       The cost estimates for the construction of the MTA Pilot Plant were
prepared by a consultant from the U.K. National Coal Board and reviewed by
Bank staff. The estimates are based on outline designs of the main components.
A physical contingency of 15 percent is provided in the cost component to
cover unforeseen work on the plant. Provision for price increase on local
costs were calculated at an average of 35 percent per annum and foreign costs
at 8 percent per annum. Consultants' proposals for carrying out the Alterna-
tive Technology Study and for designing and supervising construction of the
MTA pilot plant have been received and the costs are based on these quotations.
Foreign consultant services of about 300 man-months and local experts of about
80 man-months will be required at a cost of US$9,500 and US$3,000 per man-month
respectively.
Project Implementation and Management
76.       The consultants' studies for all components except the MTA pilot
plant are expected to be completed by the end of 1980. Design and tender
documents for the MTA plant should be completed by mid 1980 and construction
should commence by early 1981 and be completed by early 1982. Site prepara-
tion and provision of basic facilities will commence in 1980 (para. 62). The
BCM will be the overall coordinator of the project. The Bank will be notified
by November 30, 1979 which agency will be responsible for the monitoring pro-
gram (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). During its short existence, BCM has
shown itself to be highly motivated and influential in directing the policies
of line agencies whose operations have a bearing on the environment.



- 20 -
77.       TKI will be responsible for implementation of all components, except
that relating to immediate pollution control measures. TKI has agreed to
establish technical working groups to work with the consultants for the imple-
mentation of the various components of the project. Close collaboration will
be maintained with the MTA in the case of the hot briquetting pilot plant.
TKI, a State Economic Enterprise responsible for developing Turkey's coal
and lignite resources and for selling the end-product, has a Board of six
Directors nominated by the Minister of Energy and appointed by the Council of
Ministers for a term of six years. The organization is headed by a General
Manager and three Deputy General Managers. The Deputy Director of the Coal
Technology Department, an experienced and competent engineer and manager,
will be directly responsible for implementing the Seyitomer plant component;
together with MTA, he will also be responsible for the construction and opera-
tion of the MTA pilot plant.
78.       MTA was established in 1935 to explore and exploit the mineral
deposits of Turkey. MTA, under the Energy Ministry, has a General Director
and Deputy General Director, and seventeen Departments. The total profes-
sional headquarters staff is about 4,000, with about 6,000 additional field
staff. The Director of the Technology Department will be responsible, together
with TKI, for the hot briquetting component of the project; he personally was
responsible for developing the process and bringing it to its current stage of
success. The Technology Department has 91 mining, chemical and metalurgical
engineers; a small group will be appointed to work on the pilot plant on a
full-time basis. A protocol will be established prior to December 31, 1979
between TKI and MTA to provide for technical cooperation in the construction
and running of the pilot plant (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10).
79.       An overall Steering Committee has already been set up to deal with
all aspects of environment protection in the country; technical groups deal
with the everyday details. This Committee, headed by a Deputy Prime Minister,
is composed of BCM, Energy Ministry, TKI, Turkish Electricity Authority, MTA,
Ministry of Finance, Turkish Petroleum Organization, State Planning Organiza-
tion, Petrol Office, Turkish Scientific and Technical Research Organization,
Ministry of Health, Ankara Municipality, and Ministry of Local Administration.
80.       The Steering Committee meets once a month.   A Coordinating Committee,
drawn from the same organizations and composed of functionally-oriented
groups, meets every two weeks, under the Chairmanship of the Undersecretary of
BCM. A special sub-committee and working group have been established to work
on the components of the Engineering Loan and will ensure that TKI receives
technical assistance from other state enterprises and institutes as required.
81.       Consultants, appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02) will carry out all studies financed by
the loan, under the general supervision of TKI. Their recommendations will be
reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
Procurement
82.       The contract for equipment for the MTA Plant will be awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's



- 21 -
guidelines. Purchase of monitoring equipment will be based on limited inter-
national tendering. Contracts for civil works for the MTA Plant will be
awarded in accordance with TKI's procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
No Bank funds will be used for civil works. Retroactive financing of not more
than $500,000 will be provided on costs incurred for consultants and monitor-
ing equipment after August 1, 1979.
Financing and Disbursement
83.       $5.45 million of the proposed loan of $6.0 million to Turkey will
be on-lent to TKI on the same terms as the Bank loan. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of loan
effectiveness. The balance of $0.55 million will be retained by the Govern-
ment for the purchasing of monitoring equipment. The proposed Engineering
Loan would be refinanced under any later loan the Bank might make for the
construction of a full-scale commercial plant to produce smokeless fuel to
reduce air pollution.
84.       Disbursements from the Engineering Loan would be at the rate of 100
percent of foreign expenditures for consultants' services and imported equip-
ment and the ex-factory cost for locally produced equipment. The estimated
schedule of disbursements is shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Justification, Benefits and Risks
85.       In the medium-term, the Government must rely on lignite as the raw
material for the manufacture of smokeless fuel. The unavailability of natural
gas, the current critical shortage of foreign exchange for the purchase of
low-sulphur oil, the considerable expense of establishing desulphurization
plants for high-sulphur imported oil, and the long-term nature of developing
other clean fuels, eliminate all other alternatives. The Engineering Loan is
designed to assist the Government within these imperatives, and taking into
account the urgency of the situation described in Part III of this report.
86.       By providing $350,000 to modify the Seyitomer coking plant, the
Bank's contribution will activate a $16 million investment which has been idle
since August 1976 (paras. 57, 58). There is a reasonable probability that
the MTA process, after testing in a pilot plant will provide a high quality
smokeless fuel (hot briquette) at an affordable cost. The $3.0 million allo-
cated for this purpose in the Engineering Loan will enable this vital inter-
mediary step to be accomplished (paras. 59, 60). The studies on alternative
technologies and long-term measures are included to try to ensure that future
investments for clean fuels are directed to the most appropriate technology.
The huge investments necessary to tackle the air pollution problem in Turkey
as a whole over the long term demand a sound knowledge of all the practicable
possibilities (para. 63). The UNDP and WHO have been active in providing
funds and advice for measures which can be implemented immediately to monitor
and control some of the smoke and sulphur resulting from the improper combus-
tion of lignite, and from the previously uncontrolled sale and distribution of
the lowest grades of lignite. The allocation of $550,000 will supplement and
help expand these programs (paras 68, 73).



- 22 -
87.       ProJect Risk.   The major purpose of the funds provided under this
project is to further develop promising methods of manufacturing smokeless
fuel from lignite, and to investigate other possible technologies which may
provide a more appropriate clean fuel in the long-term. It is remotely
possible that neither the TKI plant at Seyitomer nor the MTA process will
turn out to be technically and economically feasible, and that the search for
alternative solutions will be fruitless. This risk is considered to be well
worth taking in view of the significant economic, social and health benefits
which will result from a successful, or even partially successful, project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
88.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of special interest are referred to in appro-
priate paragraphs of this report and summarized in Annex III.
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by A. David Knox
Attachments
October 3, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
TASLE 3A                                        Page    1 of 6
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURtE                     RZFERrNCE C20UtPS ( AD.7USTD AIWAES
LAND   AREA   (THOUSAND  S O.  Dl.)            -x F                        EN   GROUPS   DSTl A ED  -
TOTAL           780.6                                                 SAME        SAE     NE.XT HIGER
ACRICULTULAL    552.0                               MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOn#      IcoMe
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTL'ATE /b    REGION /c  GROUP Id    GROUP /I
CNP PER CAPtTA (US$)                290.0       520.0   1200.0          2906.3     1097.7     1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(UILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    245.0      479.0     743.0          2033.2     730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AD VITAL STATISTICS
FOPULATION. .IID-YEAR (MULLONS)    27.5       35.3      41.9
UUAN POPULATION (PURCENT OP TOTAL) 29.7        38.4     42.9            56.3      49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJCTIONS
POPULATION IN Y*AR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    64.0
STATIONART POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      98.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION tS REACD                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      35.0       45.0      54.0            81.5      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. K#. AGRICULTURAL LAND    51.0       64.0      76.0           138.8      140.7      100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PZRCxNT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.3        41.7     41.0            25.6      41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        55.2       54.0      54.0           62.9       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.5        4.3       5.0            10.2       3.5         5.1
POPULATION GIW! RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8        2.5       2.5             0.9       2.4         1.7
URBAN                             5.1/t      5.1       4.7             2.6       4.3         3.0
CRUDE StRTR RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0       38.0      30.0            18.5      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    16.0       13.0      10.0             9.2       9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.9        2.6       2.1             1.2       2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)      ..       65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT Of MARRIED WOMEN)  5.3        8.2      38.0             ..       34.7
FOOD AND NTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         91.5       100.0    105.0           115.7     104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
REQUIlRDIR )                  110.0       112.0    113.0           134.2     105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         78.0       78.0      75.7           95.4       64.4        80.9
OF WH2IC ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..       Z2.0OL    24.7            45.4      23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALM  RATE     24.0       16.0      10.0             1.3       8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0       57.0      61.0           70.0       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         187.0/f    153.0/i   118.0           31.5       46.7        65.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       52.0      75.0             ..       60.8        69.4
URliAN                             ..       51.0      70.0             ..       75.7        85.1
RaRAL                              ..       53.0      80.0              .       40.0        *3.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TMTAL                              ..         ..        ..             ..       46 0        70 1
URBAN                              ..         ..      19.5             *.       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             ..       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3OOO.0L    2250.0    1720.0          661.6     2262.4      1363.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..     1880.0    1430.0          677.1     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL ReD
TOTAL                           590.0/1    490.0     460.0           180.1     453.4       197.6
URBAN                           190.0L.    200.0     210.0             ..      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..     5890.0    5750.0             ..     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPIT-AL RED         ..       20.0      20.0            15.3      22.1        17.3
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.7        5.9        ..             ..        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..             ..        5.2         4.4
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             ..        5.4         5.1
AVERACE 1tS#8ER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                              ..        2.2        ..             ..        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.0        1.9        ..             ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF OWELLINCS)
TOTAL                            29.0       40.0      57.0             ..       50.0        66.0
L'RBAN                             ..         ..        ..             ..       71.7        85.1
RURAL                             2.0       186.0       ..             ..       17.3



-24 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page    2  of   6
TUR7E  - SOCIAL INDICAtORS DATA SHEET
REFEENCE GROUPS (ADJUS5tD ).jRaCES
- 0lST RECENT EStIATE ) -
SAME        SAME     NE1T HIHCiE
.MIT RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    LiNCOM      LiNCO0m
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED E0ROLL.(ENT RATIOS
PRMARY:      IOTAL               75.0        109.0    104.0           105.7      102.5       101.7
.ALE                 90.0       124.0     114.0           107.1     108.6       110.0
FEMALE               58.0        94.0      94.0           104.5      97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOtAL                14.0       28.0      29.0            65.9       33.5        51.2
MALE                 20.0        39.0      39.0            70.3      38.4        56.4
FEMALE                8.0        16.0      19.0           62.2       30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL 110L. (2 oF SECONDARY)  18.0        14.0    1I.0             20.4       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACIMR RATIO
PIIlKAR                          46.0        38.0      34.0            26.7       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         19.0       28.0      27.0              ..       22.9        25.3
A8t7LT LITERACY RATE (PECEZN)       38.0        55.5/k   60.0              ..       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSCNCU CAIS PER rHOUSAnD
POPULATION                         2.0        4.0      11.4           105.5       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVES PER THOUSAND
PoULATION                        49.0        89.0     105.0           233.7      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVELS P THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        3.0      12.0           146.0       38.3       102.6
MSPAPER ("DAILY GCNERAL
iNTMREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 51.0         ..        ..              ..       40.0        78.5
ClNEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1        6.7        ..             6.4        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
OTAL-LAtoR FOCE (TrIOUSANDS)     13783.0     15591.0  17052.0
IALU (PERCENT)                    40.2       37.2      37.3            32.3       25.0        24.5
ACRICULRE (PERCUrr)               78.5       67.7      62.0            25.8       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.5       12.1      14.0            33.1       21.5        30.6
PAIRTICIATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1       44.3      42.8            37.6       33.5        33.8
MALE                                58.7        54.9     53.2            37.0       48.0        51.3
FEMALE                              41.2        33.4     32.1            28.0       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC D1NDENCT RATIO                0.9         1.0       1.1            1.0        1.4         1.3
INCOME 0ISTRIDUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATZ INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICIEST 5 PERCECT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/h     32.8/1      ..              ..       20.8
HICHEST 20 PERCE-T OP ROUSEHOLDS  6i.o7W     6o.67i    56.5/a          47.9       52.1        57.6
LDWEST 20 PERCENT OP ROUSEHOLDS    4.27ii     2.97T     3.47-i          5.0        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENt OP ROUSUEOLDS   10.67W       9.4Z    11.47i;         15.4       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOWTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                               ..         ..     330.0              ..      270.0
tRUAL                               ..         ..     162.0              ..      13.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMZ
LEVEL (US5 PE CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    385.0              ..      282.5       550.0
RURAL                              ..          ..     367.0           436.1      248.9      403.4
ESTL'ATED POPULATION RE7W ABSOLUTE
POVERTT LNCOMt LEV8L (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..           ..       ..              ..       20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       35.3
oNt available
Not soolt-tble.
-Z2                                                 NOtES
la    The adjuaced'gPoup averag*s for each indicator are populatioo-weighted geonetric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries amng the
indicators depend on avatlability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise notaed  data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; tor 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. betven 1974 and 1977.
/c    Europe; /d    Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976); /e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita, 1976); /f   1955-60: /L   1965-70;  /b  1963;  /i  1967; /1   1962; /V Six years and above;
/1  1968;   /.  1973.
Most Racent Escinate of CLiP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



4.4
0
T.
cn                                                                                                                                                                                     I .
v t                                                                                                                                                       5
04    .    I - t  -
Z    Z
'E t
2 5
t                                                                                                          5
I                                                                                                                                                   -
7 p
E                                                             t k
A -9
L
V
J 1.
E  K'
'2
t                                                                                                                                     27
I  Q
V.
it
v  g                                                                                                               VA
2                                                           - jj.'
5                   IL
s
ti
E
3 2
I                                                                                                                                    Z   Z 9
S.,       Z      6-     Id%                                                                               2
L,  EL                  3  e                                                 E ?
V      it                      7
PA-'
iL                                           I   J
t-3                s
IS -
A
v
Z '3 9                                                                                                   J 5. tt a  A       51
V    4                             iox 'I
I       .RE   A                                                                                                                        Z t J



- 26 -
TVRK8Y - IC00HIC DIVIhL0PST DATA S6UT                                                  AN    t 1
1970       1973     1973       1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1985   77      7a         Shorn of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (T7. BillIer. 1978 Prtce.)
1. Cr.. detitc prodoct                                   720.3      876.1    1034.2     1122.7     1172.1    1212.7     1259.4    1364.5     1835.5   6.7     6.1          100.0
2. Colr ftroe  -r of trade                                13.1       13.0      -2.6        6.5       4.9        0.0      -7.1      -14.4      -24.1    ..      ..            0,0
3. Gr.. do-eatlo Income                                  733.4      889.1    1031.6     1129.2    1177.0     1212.7     1252.3    1350.1     1811.4   6.5     5.9         100.0
4.   Eport. (0 o NFS)                                     42.7       66.3      50.8       59.6      54.4       67.2       79.4      99.1      151.4   5.8    12.3            5.5
5. Import. (C o NFS)                                      60.0       93.9     140.4      142.8     167.4      118.8     113.9      125.0      167.2   8.9     5.0           9.8
6. R.coorce ablarce                                      -17.3     -27.6      -89.6      -83.2    -113.0      -51.6     -34.5      -25.9     -15.8     ..      ..          .4.3
7. Inveenment                                            130.0      158.1     245.0      248.4     273.2      248.4     238.5      250.4      363.7   8.4     5.6          20.5
8. Con.. iptlon                                          590.4      723.7     846.5      923.6     974.4     1015.9     1052.3    1134.2     1477.8   7.0     5.5          83.8
9. Do-tit -vinge                                         129.9      152.4     187.7      199.1     197.7      196.8     207.1      230.3      357.7   5.4     8.9          16.2
10. NatIonal -intc.                                       143.3      191.3     214.2      218.6     213.0      212.7     221.7      241.6      370.7   5.2     8.3          17.5
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                                      Shore of Tetel Output (Por.ent)
1. ASrloulcore                                            28.9      24.4       25.2       24.9      23.9       23.3      23.0       22.2       19.4   4.1     3.4
2. Irdoacry                                               28.3       29.9      29.6       29.9      31.5       31.4      33.0       33.5      36.4    9.5     7.6
3. Other                                                  42.8       45.7      45.2       45.2      44.6       45.3      44.0       44.4      44.2    8.8     6.4
C. PRICES (1978 * 100)
1. EIport price.                                          67.0       77.8     112.1      116.7     119.4      14U.0     104.4      105.9      136.1   5.1     4.5
2. Import price.                                          45.3       63.2     118.6      104.8     109.2      100.0     112.1      119.3      156.4  10.4     6.6
3. Teree of treda                                        147.9      123.1      94.5      111.4     109.3      100.0      93.1       88.8      87.0   -4.8
4. GP deflator                                            20.2       33.7      50.2       58.7       73.4     100.0      149.8     202.1      524.1  22.1    26.7
5. Averoge e.ch-8oe rte 1)1.UW a TL)                     11.5       14.2      14.4       16.1      18.0       24.3
Perceot of GDP
D. PUBLIC FlbANCE
1. Coctrel go-er--at renenon                              22.6       20.9      23.1       21.8      24.2       24.2
2. Central Sovrr-len   epdtcore.                          24.9       22.0      23.7       27.9      27.9       28.5
3. Phbli aector deficit /2                                  .         2.1       6.1        8.1       9.0
Eo.,
1970-78                                                                    1970      1975       1977       1978
E. SELECT8D 1NDICATOR3                                                              P. LA80R ORCE
IC10                                                       3.0                      Cintlion labor force (lillio-.)                 13.8       15.7      16.2       16.2
Report elasticity                                          2.4 /3                  UOmplo.ect and ood.rn.ployaant (7o 01 C)         11.0       12.3      13.1       13.5
Acer-ge doe-tic coing race                                16.9                      Civilin oeplo7yent (mIllon.)                    13.1       14.7      14.8       14.7
BorgLcd1 doeetlo eovtn8 rate                              13.6                        of ehich (7.)
Inve-.cent/CDP                                            20.2
Ihports/GDP                                               11.4                        Agricolt-re                                   67.1       64.5      61.6       61.3
Indoetry                                      13.3       14.9      16.3       16.7
Other                                         19.6       20.6      22.1       22.0
3 Total,-  y cot dd op hecue of roundig error-.
2     _orrolng rEqotrno_ t of nontrol government, atot-e      -tonoicevcrprlena, ad other pobl1 acthor-itle.
o Ft 1970-77 period.
EhENA CPIIA



- 27 -
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                     ANNEX I
(Million US Dollars)                                         Page 5 of 6
Actual                                     Projected
1970   1973    r974    1975     1976    1977    1978       1979    1980    1985
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports of Goods and NFS                 754    1799    2123    2152    2742    2556    3106       3750     4640    9940
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS              -1096   -2391   -4183   -5219   -5735   -6436   -5059      -5620    -6700  -12000
3. Resource Balance                         -342   -592   -2060   -3067   -2993   -3880   -1953      -1870    -2060   -2060
4.  Interest (net) 1/                       -47     -59    -102    -124    -217    -500    -680        -820    -950   -1400
5.  Profits                                 -33     -35     -71     -36     -83    -116     -60         -80     -90    -120
6. Workers' Remittances                      273   1183    1426    1312     983     982     983        1200    1300    1800
7. Net Factor Service Income                 193   1089    1253    1152     683     366     243         300     260     280
8. Transfers (net)                            91     18      27      23      15      12      -           -       -       50
9.  Current Account Balance                  -58    515    -780   -1892   -2295   -3502   -1710       -1570   -1800   -1730
10. Private Foreign Capital                   92      77     146     251     163     169     147        200      250     330
2/
11. Public Medium & Long Term(M&LT)(gross)    271    376     330     386     491     502     530        1150    1200    3110
12. Amortization of Public M & LT 1/ 2/     -146     -72    -126    -117    -119    -214    -380       -550     -880   -2710
13. Public M and LT (net)                     125    304     204     269     372     288     150        600      320     400
14.  IMF (net)                                48     -11      -      243     148      -      253         200     180     -58
15.  Short Term (net)  3/                      18  -224      -80     916    1806    2972     844        270      200      -
16.  Capital not included elsewhere  4/      -39      67      79    -204    -306    -478     464        450     1000    1188
17. Change in Reserves (- - increase)       -186   -728      431     417     112     551    -148       -150    -150     -130
B. M and LT LOAN COMMITMENTS   5/                506    547     577     755    1427    1105    1307
Public Sector                                487    491     527     649    1340    1105    1307
1. Bank Group                                40     135     228     158     237     144     358
2. Other Multilateral                        132    100     140      40      54       6      54
3. Governments: Market Economies             154    218     140     197     190     282     288
4. Governments: Centrally Planned
Economies                  114      4      -         3      97     150     204
5.  Suppliers                                 47      4      -       79     326     260     123
6. Financial Institutions                     -      32      19     172     412     263     281
7. Other                                     -       -       -       -       24      -       -
Private  Sector                               19     56      50     106      87      -       -
C. AVERAGE TERMS OF M and LT LOAN
COMMITMENTS  5/
1. Grant Element (Z)                       37.4    39.0    29.7    14.8    14.5    11.4    18.3
2.  Interest      (x)                        3.6    4.7     5.9     7.3     7.2     7.6     6.9
3. Maturity       (yrs.)                    18.8   25.7    22.9    13.1    12.7    11.7    14.8
4. Grace          (yrs.)                     4.6    7.1     5.6     3.7     3.9     4.2     4.4
1/ Net of debt relief.
2/ Up to and including 1978 these figures are Government estinates, which are not consistent with Bank DRS data.
3/ Mainly convertible Turkish Lira Deposits, Acceptance Credits. Commercial and Oil arrears. Bankers' Credits,
Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts, and Dresdner Bank Scheme deposits.
4/  Including errors and omissions up to 1978; for projected years it includes gapfill, and private M&LT borrowings on a net basis.
5/  Public and publicly guaranteed external debt only.
EMENA CPIIA



- 28 -
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                      ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual
1970       1973       1975        1976       1977      1978
A. OUTSTANENG DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Term (M and LT)(Disbursed)   1/       1854       2869       3176       3619        4326      6100
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)   1/                              42        115         160        253        479       557
3.   Short Tem   2/                                                           279       1398       3441        6600      7469
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                             1896       3263       4734        7313      11405     14126
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                               840       iiOi       1641       2393        2804      3103
B. DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                      -47        -59       -150       -300       -570       -710
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                -146        -72       -117       -119       -214       -380
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                  -193       -131       -267       -419       -784      -1090
C. DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                       18.8        4.4        7.7       11.2       22.2       26.7
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP   5/                    15.0       15.7       13.1       17.9        23.9      28.3
D. EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt               7.2        7.8        9.1        7.6        6.1        5.9
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                    3.2       14.9       12.2       10.8         8.3       7.7
E. COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                6/                                 6/
(Million US Dollars)                                         1977                              1978
(Amount) (As % of Total)          (Amount)   (As X of Total)
1. Medium & Long-Term Debt                                            4805       42.1                  6657          47.1
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                4326       37.9                   6100          43.2
(i)  Bank Group                                             693        6.1                   836            5.9
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                     508        4.5                   612           4.3
(iii)  Governments                                           2482       21.8                  3900          27.6
(iv)  Suppliers                                              149        1.3                   170            1.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                 460        4.(                   545           3.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                   34        -3                    35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                        479        4.2                    557           3.9
2.  Short Term                                                        6600       57.9                  7469           52.9
(i)  Convertible Turkish Lira Denosits                     2267       19.9                  2860           20.2
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears         2023       17.7                  1675           11.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                     560        4.9                   862           6.1
(iv)  Bankers Credits. Reimbursement Credits.Overdrafts      874        7.7                   924            6.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                          173        1.5                   363           2.6
(vi)  IMF                                                    409        3.6                   622           4.4
(vii)  Other                                                  294        2.6                   163            1.2
3. Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                  11405      100.0                  14126         100.0
1/  Bank DRS data.
2/ Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data.
4/  Totai debt service (ilne B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers   remittances.
5/ At market prices.
6/ As of December 31 for respective years.
EMENA CPIIA



-29-                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                          (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year       Borrower                  Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Eighteen  loans and twelve credits fully disbursed               383.0    160.2
748-TU    1971  Republic of Turkey    Education                   13.5                 3.9
844-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Water Supply      37.0                 9.5
324-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Development            2.3        0.7
330-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                         16.0        0.6
883-TU    1973  Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas             44.0                22.1
892-1U    1973  Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Power District    14.0                 1.0
893-TU    1973  Turkish State Railway Railway Project             46.7                 6.0
957-TU    1974  Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry            40.0                4.2
1023-TU    1974  TEK/TKI                Elbistan Power            148.0                63.9
1024-TU    1974  DYB                    Industry                   40.0                 2.9
1078-TU    1975  TSKB                   Industry                   65.0                 1.5
1130-TU    1975  Republic of Turkey    Rural Development           75.0                47.5
1248-TU    1976  Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)       Agriculture Credit          54.3               35.7
1258-TU    1976  State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)     Newsprint                   70.0               18.8
1265-TU    1976  Republic of Turkey    Livestock III               21.5                16.2
1194-TU    1976  TEK                   Power Transmission II       56.0                31.8
1310-TU    1976  Republic of Turkey    Tourism                     26.0               24.0
1379-TU    1977  DYB                    Industry                   70.0                64.2
1430-TU    1977  TSKB                  Industry                    74.0                33.8
1585-Tu    1978  Republic of Turkey    Northern Forestry           86.0               84.9
1586-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Livestock IV                24.0                24.0
1606-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Erdemir Steel Stage II      95.0                95.0
1627-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Program Loan               150.0               24.2
S-13-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Oil Recovery                 2.5                 1.8
1741-TU    1979  Republic of Turkey    Ports Rehabilitation_/a     75.0                75.0
1742-TU    1979  Republic of Turkey    Grain Storage /a            85.0               85.0
1748-TU    1979  TSKB                  Industry /a                 60.0                60.0
Total                                           1855.5    178.5     838.2
of which has been repaid                       167.5      5.0
Total now outstanding                           1688.0    173.5
Amount sold                  3.6
of which has been repaid   3.6                 - 0 -    - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b               1688.0    173.5
Total undisbursed /c                             616.9      1.3     618.2
a Not yet effective.
Prior to exchange adjustments.
Excluding loans not yet effective
Note: A $80 million loan was signed on September 17, 1979 for a Private Sector Textiles Project.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                   Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENT
(As of August 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                           Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor          Type of Business                   Loan     Equity     Total
1964       TSKB             DFC                                  -       0.92       0.92
1966       SIFAS I          Nylon Yarn                         0.90      0.47       1.37
1967       TSKB II          DFC                                  -       0.34       0.34
1969       TSKB III         DFC                                  -       0.41       0.41
1969       SIFAS II         Nylon Yarn                         1.50      0.43       1.93
1970       Viking I         Pulp and Paper                     2.50      0.62       3.12
1970       ACS              Glass                             10.00      1.58      11.58
1971       NASAS            Aluminum                           7.00      1.37       8.37
1971       SIFAS III        Nylon Yarn                         0.75        -        0.75
1971       Viking II        Pulp and Paper                       -       0.05       0.05
1972       SIFAS IV         Nylon Yarn                           -       0.52       0.52
1972       TSKB IV          DFC                                  -       0.43       0.43
1973       TSKB V           DFC                               10.00        -       10.00
1973       Akdeniz          Tourism                            0.33      0.27       0.60
1974       Borusan          Steel Pipes                        3.60      0.44       4.04
1974       AKSA             Textiles                          10.00        -       10.00
1975       Kartaltepe       Textiles                           1.30        -        1.30
1975       Sasa             Nylon Yarn                        15.00        -       15.00
1975       Aslan            Cement                            10.60        -       10.60
1975       DOKTAS           Steel                              7.50      1.37       8.87
1975       TSKB             DFC                               25.00      1.22      26.22
1976       NASAS            Aluminum                           1.58        -        1.58
1976       TSKB             DFC                               25.00        -       25.00
1976       Asil Celik       Steel                             12.00      2.20      14.20
1977       Borusan          Steel Pipes                          -       0.08       0.08
1978       DOKTAS           Steel                                -       0.15       0.15
1979       Ege Mosan        Engines for Mopeds                 2.15        -         2.15
1979       ISAS             Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                      8.00      1.40       9.40
1979       Asil Celik       Steel                                -       1.80       1.80
1979       Trakya Cam       Glass                             31.14      4.00      35.14
Total Gross Commitments                           185.85     20.07     205.92
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                       102.49      2.99     105.48
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  83.36     17.08     100.44
Total Undisbursed                                  30.80      5.63      36.43



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes, however 90 percent are
now complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by
Government to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government
is also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management
Training Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to-the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. A tariff increase was implemented in
March 1979, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed
and work on the main dam and spillway is progressing satisfactorily. The
construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing slowly, with about 36 percent of the
land leveling, 25 percent of the surface drainage, and 45 percent of the
feeder roads completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains
are located. Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as
regards consultants.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased substantially over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs by 15
percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed
reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services have been
completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's tariffs were
raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in September
1977 and again by about 35 percent in April 1979; additional steps are planned
by the Government to help cover the increased project costs and revitalize the
company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 80 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is
resuming. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation has been delayed by critical problems, in-
cluding insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have resulted in some improvement of project coordination. Physical aspects
of project implementation have recently shown encouraging improvement. The
Government's continued timely provision of adequate local funds, and early
arrangements to finalize agreed plans to meet the substantial foreign exchange
gap, would help maintain project momentum in future. The Government is review-
ing possible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation
problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1975. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds will
be completed in late 1979. Kumbabo pumping station is ready for testing.
Diversion tunnels for Alaca and Guldercek dams are more than 50 percent
completed. DSI and TOPRAKSU will soon jointly decide on methods of irrigation
to be used in conjunction with Guldercek dam, and the related design of the
conveyance works. The project extension service and credit components are
operating successfully. All three consultants proposed for the extension
service have been employed. Further construction of village centers is being
delayed until a satisfactory plan for using and maintaining existing centers
is drawn up and plans for additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Overall project implementation and the rate of
disbursement should improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. Terms
of reference for, and recruitment of, consultants to carry out the study of
TCZB's structure and procedures have been finalized after considerable delay.
At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and
US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this
purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan
Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977,
following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to delays in
civil works and procurement is expected to start production in mid-1980,
eighteen months behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of machinery and
equipment is expected to begin in early 1979 and trial runs about ore year
later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is slower than expected
due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate inter-
ministerial and inter-agency coordination. Measures to strengthen the Project
Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being taken.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB has a new Director General
and has recruited additional staff. The possibility of expanding its role in
the SEE system is under active review.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 80 percent of the loan has been com-
mitted. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of its
resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Consultants have been selected for the milk industry study and
recruitment of technical specialists for the project is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement action is underway.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million loan of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule I of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30. As
of August 31, disbursements totalled $126 million, more than projected at
appraisal.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million loan of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
Consultants have been appointed for the comparative feasibility
study, which is underway.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million loan of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: Not yet effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million loan of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: Not yet effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million loan of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: Not yet effective. Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has begun.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB ($65 million) and 1755 SYKB ($15 million) Private Sector
Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Dates: Not yet effective.
Closing Dates: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation has begun.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan request made to Bank:               August 1978
(b)  Reconnaissance Mission:                  December 1978
(c)  Preparation/appraisal mission:           March 1979
(d)  Negotiations:                            June 1979
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:           February 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Acquisition of site for MTA pilot plant (para. 62).
(b) Government will not undertake investments for the
construction of a fuel gas plant until technical
and economic feasibility studies have been com-
pleted (para. 65).
(c) Implementation by BCM or other appropriate agency of
monitoring program one year after the date of the
Loan Agreement (para. 72).
(d) A protocol will be signed between TKI and MTA for the
provision of technical assistance for the construc-
tion of the pilot plant using the MTA hot briquetting
process (para. 78).
(e) Appointment of consultants under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 81).



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page lof 2
TURKEY
ANKARA AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
1        "Feasibility Report of Seyitomer Smokeless Briquetting Project",
Mineral Research and Exploration Institute of Turkey, Ankara,
May 1978;
2        "The Preliminary Report about the Utilization of the EGO Power Plant
as a Pilot Combined and Heating Plant Application for Decreasing the
Air Pollution in the Center of Ankara", Turkish Electricity Authority,
May 1978;
3        "Environmental Impact of Smokeless Fuel and District Heating Projects
in Ankara", Ankara, June 1978;
4        "Guidelines to Assessment of Air Quality (Revised)", NATO/CCMS Air
Pollution Pilot Study, No. 6, October 1972;
5        "A Mathematical Model for Relating Air Quality Measurements to Air
Quality Standards", R.I. Larsen, AP-89;
6        "Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors", AP-42 with Supplements
1-7, USEPA, March 1975;
7        "A Review of Environmental Pollution Studies in Turkey", S.J. Arceivala,
WHO Sanitary Engineer, METU Report, June 1973;
8        "Report on a Visit to Turkey",   by, Professor H.C. Hooper, as WHO
Consultant, December 1979;
9        "Report on a Visit to Turkey",  by, Professor Hans-Werner Schlipkoter,
as WHO Consultant, March 1974;
10       "Report on a Panel Mission to Turkey,    by, Dr. G. Persson, Mr. A. Hanson
and Mr. M. Karmon, as WHO Consultants, March 1974;
11       "Review of Environmental Impact of Smokeless Fuel and District Heating
Projects in Ankara", E. Shelar, Jr. (SRI), World Bank Consultant;
12       "Strengthening of Turkish Environment Organization", UNDP Report TUR/78/
002/B/01/14;



- 39 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
13        Terms of Reference for "Alternative Technologies for
Manufacture of Smokeless Fuel using Turkish Lignite", 1979;
14        "Proposals for Tender" and "Budget Estimate" for New Pilot Plant
using MTA Process, by Dr. D.G. Madley, British Coal Board,
March 1979;
15        Consultants' Proposals for "Alternative Technologies for Manufacture
of Smokeless Fuel Using Turkish Lignite", 1979;
16        Consultants' Proposals for "New Pilot Plant for MTA Smokeless Fuel
Process", 1979;
17        "Preliminary Design Studies on the Synthetic Natural Gas Production
from the Lignites of Beypazari", Ankara, February 1979;
18        "Proposed Air Pollution Monitoring Program for Ankara, Turkey",
by Turkish Environmental Organization, April 1979;
19        "Geothermal Energy Surveys in Turkey", by Mineral Research and
Exploration Institute of Turkey, Ankara, 1975;
20        Two Protocols on "Seyitomer Carbonization Plant" between Turkish
Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (TKI) and the Konsortium consisting of
Dr. C. Otto Company GmbH and Thyssen Stahlunion Technik GmbH,
August 1979;






I  I                             I                                          .                    IBRD  11656R
25'                               30'                              3'AUGUST 1979
B U L G A R I A                                         3-     BIa c k  S e 34-tAUGS 9f
Edirne    Kir-1
nebol~PPUATO SinopR                                U35 
t~~~~~ciI~~C                         YP    U r              SYR Ia
Prosinsiol bo~~~~~~~~                                       m undolstWl'  OAI 
0ndefe  eof zlR ize
te)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
-z   4nternohnoboundorses                                                                                        H- 4fio   -  Hkr 5. 
- Fisie    Anomur                                                 TURKEYEri czurm              Uu 
M    ier   Krta10           Sea                                                       PU     T      CENaTER
4aLES                                      /AN5.         1    X rnw=ts       tH       D^SYRIA} rP  D
___Main roads      POPULATION CENTERS                        IL                                   o~~~~~~~fr  Bng6
::4                                                       Nigd~~ntrnlina  bondrisrbC                          ,  ,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0  100  200  300                   300,000                                         1~~~~~~~~~~Ee6
___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __Thsttph              h  ieAntapalya1 th
RILOMEERS                      20,000w,,i, Bank staf esegatoeram; n
m                                 Mers n                                                         I R A Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tessr,erefteo terae
P4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h es,t hc isStCa
M~~~~~~~~~M etd e rr,anepas s aTRAts                                                     ORATONAN5MJO
00'                             35'                 5, SflY errpsrser S   Y   RrI 
5, acststarr  51 sch sosden40



