Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19445
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3137-EGT)
June 18, 1999
Human Resources Group
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3137-EGT)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (EP)
December 1989 = EP 2.41
December 1999 = EP 3.41
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
EEDP    Engineering Education Development Program
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
JEC      Industrial Education College
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOHE   Ministry of Higher Education
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
RMC      Resident Mission in Cairo
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
TA       Technical Assistance
TTDC    Technical Teacher Development Center
TTEDP   Technical Teacher Education Development Program
Vice President     Kemal Dervis
Country Director    Khalid Ikram
Sector Director    Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager       Mae Chu Chang



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3137-EGT)
Table of Contents
Preface ...........................................................i
Evaluation  Summary  ............................                            ..............................                                   ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                                                                     1
A. Project Objective .........................................................                                                                I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................                             ...................                           4
C. Implementation Record .........................................................                                                            6
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                                                           7
E. Bank Performance .........................................................                                                                 8
F. Borrower's Performance .........................................................                                                           8
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                                                            9
H. Future Operations .........................................................                                                                9
I. Key Lessons Leamed .........................................................                                                             10
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                                                                                                 11
Table  1: Summary of Assessment .......................................................                                                     12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................................................                                                     13
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................                           .........................                            14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................                                                            14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementations .................................                                                       15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations ........................................                                                     17
Table 7: Studies included in the Project ................................................                                                   19
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                                                    19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                                                      19
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                               .             .                       19
Table  11:  Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                                                  20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................                                                     23
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions ...................................................                                                    24
ANNEXES:                                                                                                                                    25
1. Aide-Memoire (May  1999) .........................................................                                                       26
2. The Operational Plan for the Project .................................................                                                   30
3. Borrower's Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3137-EGT)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Engineering and Technical
Education Project to the Arab Republic of Egypt, for which Loan 3137 in the amount of $30.5
million was approved on December 5, 1989 and made effective on June 5, 1991. The Loan
closed on December 31,1998, thirty months after the original closing date of June 30, 1996, to
allow for the completion of procurement and technical assistance activities. An undisbursed
balance of US$0.9 million will be cancelled when remaining payments have been made.
2.   The ICR was prepared by a task team' led by Ms. Mae Chu Chang, Principal Educator in
the Human Development Group of the Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSHD), and was
reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy, Director, MNSHD, and Ms. Marlaine Lockheed, Education
Manger, MNSHD. Preparation of the ICR began during the last supervision mission of the
project in December 1998, and is based on material in the project file, discussions with the
Borrower and information collected during the last supervision and the completion mission. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR with its own evaluation of the Project's
execution (see Annex 3) and commented on the draft ICR.
The team included Messrs. Joseph W.B. Bredie, Senior Education Specialist (AFTH4); Mahmoud Gamal
El Din (RMC); Sam Mikhail, Consultant Technical Education Specialist; Ms. Patricia Maughan, Consultant
Implementation Specialist, and Ms. Nadia Roumani (Editor).
i



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Engineering and Technical Education Project was supported by a Loan in the amount
of US$ 30.5 million. The Government was to finance the remaining US$ 8.1 million of the total
estimated cost of US$ 38.6 million. The final cost wasUS$ 38.9 million. The Loan closed on
December 31, 1998. The total disbursement was US$ 29.6 million. The remaining balance of
US$ 0.9 million will be cancelled.
Project Objectives
* Improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education in Egyptian
universities, by (i) upgrading the curriculum to international standards; (ii) providing
instructional materials to support the new curricula; (iii) upgrading laboratories and installing
state-of-the-art equipment; (iv) strengthening links with industry.
* Improve the quality of secondary technical education, by (i) developing a new integrated
pre-service teacher education program; (ii) upgrading the quality of technical teachers
through in-serve training; (iii) improving technical teacher education.
Implementation Experience and Results
2.   The Project achieved most of its objectives albeit with some delays. The engineering
programs' quality improved substantially and a new type of technical teacher has been trained for
the technical secondary schools. Overall, the Project is rated as satisfactory.
Improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education.
3.   Most of this component's targets have been achieved and the overall outcome is
satisfactory. (i) Upgrading the curriculum to international standards. At this time, more than
55% of basic engineering and engineering science courses meet quality standards as assessed by a
team of international consultants. Plans to upgrade the other courses during the operational phase
of the Project have been prepared by the Borrower. As part of the curriculum upgrading,
laboratory work has been integrated and lab manuals have been produced for more than 70% of
the laboratories. To maintain quality, pilot quality assessments have been completed for the
electronics, mechanical and civil engineering programs. Quality assessments for the other
programs are scheduled during the operational phase. (ii) Providing instructional materials to
support the new curriculum. A multimedia pilot course in fluid mechanics and aerodynamics has
been developed successfully. In addition, a library network of engineering documents has been
established and all engineering colleges are now electronically linked to this library. Also, more
than 40% of the faculty participated in the curriculum upgrading, multimedia and engineering
library projects. (iii) Upgrading laboratories and install state-of-the-art equipment. One hundred
fifty nine laboratories were upgraded and state of the art equipment installed in all eighteen
engineering faculties. Specific maintenance programs were also put in place to ensure that the
new equipment will be kept in good condition for the longest possible utilization period. (iv)
Strengthening links with industry. Industry representatives participated in the curriculum
committees to ensure that training programs were relevant for industry. Also, students developed
about fifty projects with significant industry links.
11



Improving the quality of secondary and post secondary technical education
4.   The objective of this component has been achieved in the narrow sense of creating a supply
of quality teachers. Within this narrow definition, the component is judged satisfactory.
(i) Developing a new pre-service integrated teacher education program; Two teacher training
schools have been transformed into Industrial Education Colleges (IECs) Kubba and Beni-Suef.
Ten new industrial teacher education programs have been developed. Facilities at the IECs have
been upgraded and equipment procured and installecd Since 1993, the IECs have graduated 1413
new type theory-cum-practice teachers. In addition, twenty-two faculty received teacher
education training in Holland. Nine more are currently following the same program and six are
enrolled in a PH.D program in the U.K. (ii) Upgrading the quality of technical teachers through
in-service training.  Since 1993, 325 practical subject teachers completed their in-service
education at the Kubba IEC. (iii) Strengthening technical teacher education. The Project
upgraded the quality and teaching experience of about two-thirds of the teachers in the
Intermediate Technical Institutes, and established Technical Teacher Development Centers
(TTDCs) at the two IECs.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.   Project implementation was slow at the beginning and the first Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), comprising part-time university professors, had to be reconstituted in 1992. After
reconstitution, the PIU team functioned well although the slow start delayed civil works and
procurement substantially. The Government's delay in phasing out enrollment at the Kubba
technical secondary school, necessary for it to be transformed into an IEC, further delayed civil
work and procurement. Also, the delivery of laboratory equipment was considerably slower than
planned. There were many different suppliers for each laboratory, as a result of the evaluation
committee's decision to award contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder based on price rather than
complete equipment packages for each lab. Managing the many suppliers took a lot of time and
required that the university staff had to assist in receiving equipment and organizing the lab. This
in turn caused considerable delays as many professors and technicians were reluctant to assume
such responsibility. The slow start-up and many procurement delays made it necessary to extend
the closing date three times.
Project Sustainability
6.   The quality improvements in engineering education are most likely sustainable. The
engineering faculties are gradually extending the assessment of curriculum standards to more
programs. Also, the involvement of industry representatives in curriculum development is
continuing. The engineering faculties are planning to develop a program accreditation with
industry. The library network is working well and the demand for curriculum materials from
faculty is growing. The equipment maintenance programs, installed in all upgraded laboratories,
are helping to sustain the physical improvements brought about in the laboratories and equipment.
7.   The improvements in the quality of technical secondary schools teachers are also
sustainable. There is a demand for the new teachers. The two pilot IECs with their upgraded
faculty and facilities will make it possible to meet the bulk of this demand. The Government has
already established a third IEC at the Suez Canal University. With donor assistance, the
Government is planning to transform three more technical schools located respectively in
Alexandria, Zagazig and Aswan, into IECs. The faculty trained in the Netherlands are dynamic
and resourceful and are pushing for further curricula improvements and stronger links with other
schools and industry. Finally, the demand for the in-service teacher training course at theKubba
iii



IEC is high and many practical subject teachers are eager to obtain a Bachelor of Arts Degree in
Industrial Education.
Bank Performance
8.   The Bank's role in preparing a Project with several innovative design components was
satisfactory. The Project introduced a competitive grants program into Egypt for the first time,
successfully upgrading the quality of engineering education. Engineering faculties competed for
grants by submitting the best possible curriculum, staff and facilities improvement program as
judged by peers and industry specialists on the basis of quality and relevance criteria. Also,
requiring that maintenance programs and resources be put in place as a condition for equipment
procurement was effective. The design team did not, however, anticipate and make sufficient
preparation for the complexities of managing the procurement of a large number of equipment
packages by an implementation unit that was unfamiliar with Bank procurement guidelines and
procedures. The complexities of the Egyptian custom regulations were another stumbling block
that had been overlooked by the design team. It was assumed that the equipment for the Project
would be exempt from taxes and customs duties. However, special arrangements were necessary,
such as those implemented for UNESCO projects.  The Bank's supervision effort was
satisfactory, although weak with regards to procurement management in the beginning. After the
slow start, the procurement process was expedited by the Resident Mission in Cairo which helped
to review and process contracts. However, Bank supervision teams were limited in their ability to
assist the PIU team improve disbursement performance which was very slow, particularly with
regard to the payment of retention fees to suppliers.
Borrower Performance
9.   Borrower performance was satisfactory during preparation and appraisal. The Borrower
team, in particular the Minister and his advisors, were highly proactive and constructive during
preparation. However, the Borrower was responsible for some of the implementation delays.
Delays were caused by several factors. Lengthy customs clearance procedures, particularly the
procedure for obtaining tax exemption for equipment, caused considerable delays. Also, the lack
of effective communications with presidents of universities, deans, and heads of sections in the
faculties of engineering slowed down implementation. Moreover, the universities did not have
suitable procedures in place to receive goods and equipment which in turn delayed payment to
suppliers. Several of these issues were resolved during the implementation of the Project. Also,
as a result of pro-active planning between the PIU and the officials during the last two years,
customs clearance delays have been reduced. Overall, the Borrower was committed to the
Project. This is shown by the fact that the Borrower provided funds to finance additional
facilities at the IECs and escalations in construction costs.
Assessment of Outcome
10.  The impact of the Project on the quality of engineering education and technical teacher
education programs is positive and substantial. Engineering courses are up to international
standards according to the foreign advisors consulted, and industry representatives have helped
emphasize applied engineering practices. Quality assurance procedures have been developed and
once installed will help to sustain course quality. The need to make engineering education more
relevant to Egypt's manufacturing and services sectors remains high, and the procedures to
accomplish this goal have been established under the Project. Evidence that this has been
accomplished will be collected through tracer studies during the operational phase. Furthermore,
quality assurances procedures will become a permanent part of engineering programs during the
iv



operational phase. The theory-cum-practice teachers for secondary technical and post-secondary
intermediate technical institutes are in demand and are helping to integrate theory and practice
classes in these schools. However, a comprehensive improvement in the quality of technical
secondary schools would still require a total and comprehensive reform of these schools.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
Summary of Findings
11.  In spite of the slow pace of disbursements due in part to complex procurement
arrangements, the Project has made a substantial and positive impact on engineering education
programs in Egypt. Much of the success was due to the effective competitive grants program.
With regard to the objective of improving secondary and post-secondary technical education, the
lECs developed under the Project have such a positive impact on the quality of technical teachers
that the Government has already established one more IEC at Suez Canal University and plans to
establish three more IECs. Also, the in-service training program at the Kubba IEC is in great
demand. In addition to the IECs, six training centers have been established in the new industrial
cities in support of technical education under the Mubarak-Kohl initiative.
Future Operations
12.  The Borrower plans to complete the Computer Network of Engineering Libraries and
Engineering Education Database to connect all universities. The best courseware and laboratory
manuals developed under the Project will be disseminated to participating engineering colleges. It
plans to install quality assurance and accreditation in engineering education. In technical teacher
education, the Borrower plans to move the IECs to universities to give them more academic
freedom and autonomy, making it easier to adapt teacher education to changing demand and
upgrade pre and in-service programs. It also wants to convert three more intermediate technical
institutes into IECs to meet the demand for integrated practice-cum-theory teachers.
Key Lessons Learned.
13.  The main lessons from the Project's implementation experience are:
(a) The competitive grants program used for the engineering education programs proved
to be an effective mechanism to bring about quality improvements in universities. The program
required the universities to compete for funds. The competitive element spurred Universities to
come-up with the best possible proposal. The participatory process of peer reviews also led to a
common practice of sharing lessons from experience among faculty members.
(b) The Bank must ensure that government regulations are not in conflict with the
procedures for implementing project activities and that joint planning with Government
concerned entities (PIU, custom and sales tax departments) are completed during the preparation
period. While the Bank's legal agreement stated that project-financed equipment are exempt
from government taxes, the preparation team did not examine the complex procedural
requirements to obtain such exemption nor planned for the considerable time it took to prepare
the necessary paperwork.
(c) Project start up was delayed due to lack of financing for Project activities prior to
effectiveness. Since the Government does not want to borrow for Project Preparation Facilities, it
is necessary to obtain grants to finance preparation activities. A key start-up activity that should
be financed is the recruitment of qualified project implementation staff.
v



(d) The lesson that Government procurement methods should be reviewed and discussed
prior to effectiveness and Bank Standard Bidding Documents used in all Bank-financed
procurement activities supports the recent decision by the World Bank to require a detailed
procurement plan and manual prior to effectiveness. The World Bank now requires a detailed
procurement plan and an implementation manual spelling out implementation and procurement
procedures prior to project effectiveness. In the case of the Project, Government procurement
procedures should have been reviewed and aligned with Bank procedures prior to the
implementation of procurement activities which would have minimize the delays experienced.
(e) The Project objectives were clear and consistent with the Government strategy for
improving engineering and technical education. Projects that are well situated within a broader
strategy of reform owned by the Government can be a catalyst and lead to a full reform program.
The Project has turned out to be a catalyst for reform. A secondary education reform has already
begun under a Bank-assisted Secondary Education Enhancement Project which also include
technical secondary schools. Reforms of industrial training and higher education are being
planned by the Government and Donors.
(f) A full time project management team is key to a project's success and timely
implementation.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 3137-EGT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
INTRODUCTION
1.  In early 1988, when the Engineering and Technical Education Project was prepared,
Egypt's economy was slowing down. To stimulate growth, the Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program aimed at raising production by expanding and modernizing the
private sector's productive capacity. However, with half of the labor force unable to read or write
and less than 10 percent trained in technical and scientific skills, modernizing production needed
to be accompanied by investments in education.
2.   Earlier education investments enabled almost 90 percent of Egypt's children to attend six
years of basic education. About 82 percent of the age cohort attended the two years intermediary
and 53 percent the three years secondary. Less than 25 percent participated in higher education
which ranged from two to five years in duration. Vocational training was available in
intermediary, and technical education in secondary schools. More than 60% of secondary students
were streamed into technical education. Only students who completed general secondary had
access to universities. Post-secondary institutions produced middle-level and university higher-
level professionals.  Less than 14 percent of university students enrolled in science and
engineering.
3.   Although education expansion has accelerated in the last decade, quality and efficiency had
fallen at all levels. While the system produced more graduates every year, the relevance of many
secondary, and university programs to the needs of the economy was poor. For instance, a 1988
labor market survey indicated that there was no shortage of technical school graduates and
university trained engineers, but that enterprises were looking for more practically-oriented
technicians and engineers not then produced by the education system.
4.   In 1988, to respond to this situation, the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) decided to:
(a) improve the balance between theory and practice in engineering education by increasing the
emphasis on practical industry-relevant exercises and project-work; (b) decrease enrollments in
engineering faculties to reduce overcrowding; and (c) introduce charges for special classes to
complement public funds. The Government proposed to upgrade laboratories in engineering
faculties to facilitate practical experiments with industrial application. To improve quality in
vocational training and technical education, the Government planned to: (a) provide better
qualified teachers in sufficient numbers; (b) reform the curricula; and (c) upgrade facilities and
equipment. Technical teachers would be trained in both theory and practical skills in a new type
of college - Industrial Education Colleges (IECs) - created by merging the five-year teacher
1



training schools and university departments of industrial training. The IECs would also provide
in-service teacher training and support teacher education development.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.   The main goal of the Project was to support the Government's 1988 strategy for improving
the engineering and technical education sectors. The objectives were to: (a) improve the quality
and occupational relevance of engineering education in Egyptian universities; and (b) improve the
quality of secondary and post secondary technical education by supporting the creation of the
IECs to meet the demand for better prepared and qualified technical teachers. To accomplish
these objective, the project was designed to include two components:
(a) an Engineering Education Development Program (EEDP) to upgrade facilities,
laboratory equipment, instructional materials, and provide technical assistance to move
existing university engineering faculties toward a more applied orientation through stronger
linkages with industry, more relevant curricula and better qualified teaching staff; and
(b) a Technical Teacher Education Development Program  (TTEDP) to   provide
instructional equipment and technical assistance to initiate a new and reformed system for
the professional preparation of high quality, theory-cum-practice teachers, to serve the
secondary and post-secondary technical schools and institutes through the establishment of
two new technical teacher training colleges.
Improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education:  The EEDP
Component
6.   Engineering education was to be improved by: (a) upgrading the curricula to international
standards; (b) providing instructional materials to support the new curriculum; (3) upgrading
laboratories and installing state-of-the-art equipment; and (4) strengthening links with industry.
7.   Upgrading the curricula to international standards. The Project would financed: (a)
the introduction of quality assessment of engineering programs. The first step would involve
developing a procedure for assessing the quality of each program by the faculty (self-assessment).
The second step was to develop quality standards for science and engineering science courses and
compile a computer-based data-base on these courses. The third step was to develop model
curricula that met international standards. These model curricula would integrate theory and
laboratory experimentation; (b) improving the efficiency and effectiveness of delivering
engineering programs. This would include the strengthening of management capacity of faculty,
administrators and support staff through team work. In addition, a number of faculty were to
benefit from formal or informal qualifications upgrading.
8.   Provide instructional materials to support the curriculum. The Project would support
the establishment of a computerized network for engineering libraries to facilitate the use of
library resources among all engineering schools. Laboratory manuals were to be developed for
the practical classes. Also, a number of multi-media projects were to be developed to bring
together the instructional materials for faculty teaching and student learning in one computer-
based package.
9.   Upgrade laboratories and install state-of-the-art equipment.  The Project would
finance the refurbishing of laboratories on the basis of competitive proposals produced by the
faculty and reviewed by peer committees. Comprehensive proposals were to be submitted setting-
out how the faculty planned to improve the curricula to meet requirements of industry, select and
2



procure the instructional materials and equipment necessary to implement the curricula, and
upgrade the competencies of teachers to be able to teach the improved curricula. Peer committees
including representatives from industry, would select proposals on the basis of a comparative
assessment of the quality of every aspects of the proposals and the commitment of faculty to
implement it. Only proposals that would meet stringent criteria for faculty, curricula, and
laboratory utilization and maintenance, would be financed. The Project would also finance the
procurement of equipment for the refurbished laboratories, again on the basis of competitive
proposals prepared by faculty and reviewed by peers that met standard criteria for utilization and
maintenance.
10.  Strengthen links with industry. The Project would support faculty secondment to
industry, and the provision of engineering education specialists for staff and curriculum
development. It would also facilitate the participation of industry representatives in curriculum
committees and the preparation of student projects with industrial applications.
Improve the quality of secondary and post-secondary technical education: The TTEDP
Component
11.  Secondary technical education was to be improved by: (a) developing a new pre-service
integrated teacher education program; (b) upgrading the quality of technical teachers through in-
service training; and (c) strengthening technical teacher education.
12.  Develop a new pre-service integrated teacher education program. The Project would
support the transformation of two, five-year teacher training schools into Industrial Education
Colleges (IECs). This would include upgrading faculty, programs and facilities, particularly
laboratories, and procuring instructional equipment. A new teacher education program that
integrated the teaching of theory and practical classes for the same subject was to be developed at
the IECs. IEC faculty were to be upgraded both in-country and abroad. Instructional materials
for new pre- and in-service courses would be developed and supplied.
13.  Upgrade the quality of technical teachers through in-service training. The Project
would support the development of an in-service teacher education program at the lECs based on
the analysis of the needs of practicing teachers. The program, to be developed by local and
foreign teacher education specialists, would aim to upgrade the skills and knowledge of practicing
teachers to the new pre-service program standards.
14.  Strengthening technical teacher education. The Project would support programs in
institutional management for inspectors, and professional support for curriculum and instructional
materials development. It would support strengthening links between industry and the IECs.
15.  The objectives were clear and consistent with the Government's 1988 strategy for
improving engineering and technical education. All eighteen engineering faculties would
participate in efforts to upgrade the curricula. The participation of industry representatives in the
Project would help assure the occupational relevance of the new curricula and that of
international consultants would help bring the curricula in line with international standards.
Improving technical secondary education was also an economic priority. At the time of appraisal,
graduates faced difficulties in finding jobs, because of the stagnant economy and the poor quality
of their skills. Upgrading the quality of these schools and thereby improving the absorption of
graduates in the labor market was a high priority. The Project was designed to address this
priority.
3



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
16.  The overall objectives of the Project have been largely achieved, and the Project is,
therefore, rated satisfactory. It has helped to produce more practically oriented engineers, and
technical teachers who can teach the theory as well as the practical classes in their area of
competence. Tracer studies are planned, but currently it is too early to measure the overall impact
of the Project on the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education and on the
quality of technical secondary education. Initial feedback from engineering graduates is positive,
but there is no systematic feedback from employers to suggest that the recent graduates have
contributed to productivity improvements in the economy. The technical teachers produced under
the Project, with instructional competence in both theory and practice, are beginning to bring
about a positive change in the teaching in technical schools. There is some incidental evidence of
this from several school principals. Also, the reputation of the new teachers among their
colleagues is good as is evident from the demand for access to the program by practicing and
aspiring teachers. However, technical secondary schools continue to face other problems such as
overcrowding, inadequate facilities, irrelevant curricula and low efficiency - problems the new
teachers cannot solve by themselves. Despite the positive contributions of the Project, focussing
specifically on improving teacher quality, a more comprehensive education reform is necessary.
Improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education.
17.  Upgrade the curricula to international standards. The achievement of this objective,
which aimed to redesign the structure of the engineering program to meet prevailing international
standards for content and theory-practical balance, was satisfactory. Ten basic engineering and
engineering science courses have been surveyed, analyzed and documented. Model courses based
on typical international standards have been developed and shared among the participating
universities. The model courses integrate theory with practical experiments in the laboratories.
The universities where the courses are currently offered find that students are more in touch with
typical engineering problems commonly faced by engineering firms than before. The students are
also more keen to become involved in real-life engineering issues and applications. In addition,
the analysis of course content done under the Project made it possible to specify textbooks and
relevant courseware, and select the proper equipment for the laboratory experiments. To maintain
the quality of the curriculum, a system of quality audits for engineering programs was developed
and tested. The system used self-assessment followed by peer review. The pilot assessment of
two programs was successful, and the first of its kind in Egypt. The participating universities are
discussing the possibility of instituting the system in all faculties. They are also looking at the
system as a basis for an engineering education accreditation system.
18.  Provide instructional materials to support the curriculum. Databases were developed
of: (a) all basic and engineering science courses in the participating universities; and (b) all other
courses (old and new) which include the use of science laboratories. The data base includes
specifications for textbooks and courseware for each of the courses. A new electronic library
system has been established and it facilitates the cataloging and sharing of library resources
among all engineering schools in Egypt. The data base provides details about all documentation
available for the courses developed under the Project. The peer reviewers who evaluated the
courses and the supporting documentation found a marked improvement in the quality and
relevance of the instructional materials compared to materials used before. They also found that
many faculty members accessed the data bases on a regular basis to develop their lesson plans
and improve their teaching. In addition, the Project financed the development of a successful
computer and multimedia-based course in fluid mechanics and aerodynamics. The course was
tested and evaluated by outside experts and will be disseminated to all engineering colleges.
4



19.  Upgrade laboratories and install state-of-the-art equipment. One hundred and fifty
nine new laboratories were established with an average overall cost of about US$100,000 per lab.
The labs were selected by committees comprising more than 180 university and industry experts.
All physical spaces had to be refurbished as a precondition for installing the labs. State-of-the-art
equipment, carefully selected on the basis of the analysis of curriculum requirements, were
purchased and installed in these labs. All equipment was entered into a comprehensive
engineering equipment database which has become a useful planning tool for engineering
institutions in Egypt. The colleges entered into equipment maintenance contracts, trained
maintenance technicians and secured long-term equipment guarantees as a precondition for
obtaining equipment.
20.  Strengthen links with industry. Faculties that received support under the Project
provided evidence of the relevance of the competencies to be acquired through their new courses
to the needs of industry. Representatives from industry participated for five years in project
committees to develop course standards that are relevant to industrial practices. In addition, the
Project supported fifty student projects developed together with industry.
Improving the quality of secondary andpost-secondary technical education.
21.  Developing a new pre-service integrated teacher education program. The program
was established at the Kubba and Beni Suef IECs. Industrial education programs in ten subject
areas were developed by specialist committees. They combine general education subjects, all
subjects related to a specific industrial technology area, education theory, and teaching practices.
The programs are based on a 1992 expert study of in-service teacher training programs. They
were evaluated by experts from the Bolton Institute of Higher Education of the U.K. The
laboratory facilities at the IECs were upgraded to meet the requirements of the new curricula and
are now considered the best among technical teacher institutions in Egypt. Twenty-two new IEC
faculty graduated from a customized Master of Arts program in technical education in the
Netherlands. Nine more are currently enrolled in this program, and six are following a Ph.D.
Program in the U.K. Since 1993, when the new program became operational, the IECs have
graduated 1413 new type theory-cum-practice teachers for secondary technical schools. The
graduates have been well received, and demand for these teachers is high.
22.  Upgrading the quality of technical teachers through in-serve training. Both IECs have
established technical teacher development centers (TTDCs) offering teacher training for teachers
of the intermediate and higher technical institutes and for trainers from industry. TheTTDCs use
the same laboratories and trained faculty that are used for the teaching of in-service teachers, with
good results. Since 1993, the Kubba IEC-TTDC has graduated 325 practical subject teachers.
23.  Strengthening technical teacher education. The TTDCs have become the focal point of
technical teacher education. Committees comprising teacher educators, inspectors and industry
representatives meet regularly at the TTDCs to advise on program development, technical school
management, and inspection procedures and standards. The committees also work on projects to
develop educational technologies for laboratory and workshop classes. The committees organize
practice teaching assignments for teacher trainees in neighboring technical secondary schools,
and stages in participating industries. A British Council organized study tour to the UK and North
American allowed IEC faculty to learn about institutional models and strategies in industrial
education and discuss potential twinning arrangements with overseas institutions.
5



C. IMPLEMENTATIONRECORD AND MAJOR FACTORSAFFECTING THE PROJECT
24.  Project implementation had a very slow start and the Project had to be extended three
times. Several factors contributed to the slow implementation including (i) a weak first project
implementation unit (PIU); (ii) delays with the establishment of the special account; and, (iii)
delays with procurement. On the other hand, technical assistance was used effectively during
implementation and audits were conducted on time.
25.  The original Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was composed of university professors
working part-time on the Project as well as on the African Development Bank's Technical
Education Project. The professors could not dedicate sufficient time to get the Project started and
the PIU had to be disbanded. A new PIU team made-up of a three member executive committee
comprising the PIU Director and two component Directors, was established by Ministerial Decree
on February 22, 1992. In addition, procurement and financial staff were recruited, employed and
trained at the Bank's Resident Mission in Cairo and at the ILO training center in Turin, Italy.
Two PIU staff were trained in computerized data base management. Project implementation
accelerated markedly as a result of the employment and training of the new PIU staff as is
substantiated in the Borrowers' report (Annex 3). It took, however, at least another year to
overcome the initial delays and get used to the Bank's procurement and financial procedures.
26.  The Special Account for the loan was set up, but the transfer of the first deposit by the
World Bank was completed only in June 1992, due to the change in the PIU team. The delay in
funding first-year project activities retarded the progress of implementation considerably. A
project preparation facility, which is not acceptable under Egyptian Law, would have allowed
financing of start-up activities until project funding would have become available.
27. Procurement procedures satisfactory to the Government and the Bank were not fully
established when the Project became effective. Progress with procurement improved when the
Resident Mission in Cairo (RMC) was established and staffed with procurement specialists who
reviewed and cleared bidding documents. However, delays were still encountered because
suppliers took much longer to deliver the equipment than was planned. There were many
different suppliers for each laboratory as a result of the evaluation committee's decision to award
contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder based on price rather than complete packages for each
lab. Managing the many suppliers took a lot of time and effort and required that the university
staff had to assist in receiving the equipment and organizing the lab. This in turn caused
considerable delays as many professors and technicians were reluctant to assume such
responsibility. Additional delays were caused by the time needed to obtain Government approval
for the leasing of telecommunication channels for the library network.
28.  Technical Assistance was used effectively to achieve the Project objectives. In the early
stages of the Project, the British Council organized a study tour to engineering and technical
education institutions in the UK and U.S.A. The tour focused on studying institutional models
and strategies for industrial education. The participants also assessed opportunities for twinning
arrangements with institutions in these countries. International experts were utilized to undertake
a study of in-service teacher training program suitable for Egypt. The study was completed in
October 1992. Over 700 Egyptian experts from the private and public sectors have been
contracted to participate in the various committees of the EEDP.  They have completed
assignments during all phases of the Project, including the assessment and selection of successful
proposals under the competitive grant program for engineering labs. More than 160 Egyptian
experts from the engineering faculties of Egyptian universities as well as from the private sector
were contracted to design the curricula for the IECs comprising 180 courses in ten disciplines
6



(Electrical Engineering; Electronics; Process Control; Refrigeration and Air Conditioning;
Production Technologies; Precision Mechanical Engineering; Automotive; Civil Construction;
and, Building Construction Technologies). Each curriculum included courses in technological
skills, technological foundations, industrial specializations, general education, and education
methods. The Bolton Institute of Higher Education, contracted to evaluate the curricula, found
that it corresponded to international standards of quality and relevance.
29.  Audit and Progress Reporting were up-to-date and of good quality. Compliance with
loan covenants was delayed (Annex Table 11) in many instances, but all covenants were met well
before the Project closed.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.  The improvements in engineering education are sustainable. For technical education, the
supply of better qualified teachers through the IECs is also sustainable. With increasing
international competitiveness, and slow productivity improvements in the economy, the
Government is committed to sustain the improvements in the quality of engineers and
technicians. This will be accomplished as part of a comprehensive program the Government has
embarked upon to raise the quality of the labor force through improvements in education at all
levels. At the universities, this program is likely to build on the quality improvements
accomplished under the Project, not just sustain them. In the technical schools on the other hand,
further improvements will require major policy changes that would facilitate the phasing out of
low quality secondary technical schools that have littlerelevance to Egypt's economic needs, and
transforming these schools into general secondary schools. The new World Bank-assisted
Secondary Education Enhancement Project (Cr. 3194) has begun to address this policy.
31.  The physical improvements of the laboratory facilities and equipment can be sustained
because the Project helped establish maintenance programs and resources. The improvements in
the engineering programs are also likely to be sustained. Programs developed under the Project
had to demonstrate relevance to the needs of industry and program committees now include
industry representatives who make sure that the program reflects the industry's changing needs.
In addition, the Project supported the development of quality assurance systems for engineering
programs including quality self-assessment. The system was tested on engineering programs in
three different engineering colleges. The results were good and have been disseminated to all
other engineering colleges. Quality assurance systems are likely to be introduced in all colleges in
the near future.
32.  The IECs established under the Project will be sustained. The IECs are planning to obtain
MOHE concurrence to recruit full-time faculty. IEC management expects that this would
improve the quality of the teaching further. The IECs previously relied mostly on seconded or
retired university faculty to teach the bulk of the programs, which is considered a second best
solution. The equipment procured under the Project for the IECs is the best available in technical
education. Moreover, the young faculty members who have been trained under the project-
funded contract with the Eindhoven University in the Netherlands seem enthusiastic and willing
to push for further changes at the IECs. Three additional IECs are being planned in Alexandria,
Zagazig and Aswan and funding for them is expected from donor organizations. The in-service
training program at the Kubba IEC is in great demand.
7



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.  The Bank's performance was satisfactory during the design, appraisal and implementation
phases. The Bank's design of the competitive grants procedures and peer review of proposals
worked well.  Also, the Bank's insistence on proper arrangements and resources for the
maintenance of the laboratories and equipment is paying-off. The Bank's supervision efforts
were satisfactory, although not fully effective in keeping Loan disbursement at a satisfactory
level. Although it was not required at the time to have detailed procurement arrangements in
place, the Bank team did not fully anticipate at appraisal the complexities and magnitude of the
procurement for the many institutions involved in the Project. As a result, delays occurred
particularly in the first two years of implementation.
34.  The Project was complex, involving many institutions and required a very large number of
equipment procurement contracts according to rules that were unfamiliar to the institutions and
the government agencies. Moreover, the management structure proposed for the Project in the
Staff Appraisal Report identified a coordinator for each project component, but not an overall
administrator. This caused confusion when the second PIU team was selected, as the three
persons identified for managing the two components and the Project as a whole, were of equal
professional stature. It took some time during the early stages of the Project to come-up with
acceptable arrangements that ensured that neither would have more authority than the other.
Good collaboration between the Bank's supervision team and the PIU team eventually solved the
problem.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.  Borrower performance was satisfactory during preparation and appraisal. However, during
implementation the Project did experience serious difficulties during the first year and a half. The
Govemment team, in particular the Minister2 and his advisor, ensured that the second PIU team
was of the a suitable caliber and committed to the task at hand. However, the MOHE did not
provide adequate assistance to ensure prompt and satisfactory acceptance of goods from the
suppliers to the faculties of engineering. Procurement and loan disbursement were delayed in
part because of inadequate controls and oversight by the responsible ministries. The university
administrations were also ineffective in making arrangements to receive the equipment. This was
left up to the Deans of the faculties of engineering, some of whom had not been involved in the
selection of the equipment, and were reluctant to receive the goods for various reasons.
36.  The PIU was initially unfamiliar with procedures for exemption from taxes and duties for
equipment and goods to be procured under the Project. This caused substantial delays as the PIU
was unable to process goods through customs. The situation improved in the last two years when
the PIU streamlined the preparation of paperwork necessary for each shipment. The Government
failed to phase-out enrollment as planned at the Kubba IEC, causing the subsequent delay in
construction at the College. Nevertheless, Borrower commitment to the Project was sound. The
Government provided the necessary counterpart funds and paid for the construction of additional
workshops, laboratories and auditoriums to accommodate the higher than planned intake of
students at the IECs.
2 tn the early stages of project development, the Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) and the Ministry
of Education (MOE) were administered by the same Minister. Later on in the project's implementation
phase, a new minister was selected to manage the MOHE and the Project was transferred to that Ministry.
8



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.  Overall the Project has had a substantial impact on the quality and relevance of engineering
education, but only a limited impact on secondary technical schools. At the eighteen participating
engineering faculties, the occupational relevance of the majority of the engineering programs
improved and the programs now correspond to international standards. There is no evidence yet
to show that the program quality improvements have translated into better labor market
absorption of graduates or better paying jobs. That evidence needs to be collected through tracer
studies which are planned during the operational phase. Thus, it is too early to measure the impact
on the productive capacity of the economy, the ultimate goal of the Project. A positive impact of
the Project is that engineering faculty standards and morale improved considerably as a result of
the competitive grants program. Faculty members have met several times, and networked
extensively, creating an esprit du corps. The equipment and instruments installed in the 159 new
laboratories enable students to learn the essential applied or experimental side of their
engineering profession - a lasting contribution of the Project. Finally, the Government has
already made a commitment to build upon the Project's accomplishments and undertake a
broader more comprehensive program to improve the quality and relevance of higher education
with the support of the World Bank and other Donors.
38.  The original Project objective of training teachers and improving secondary technical
education in the given period of time was unrealistic. The Project's time period was only
sufficient to train a relatively small group of teachers adequately. It is unlikely that these better
educated teachers by themselves could bring about the expected quality improvements in
secondary technical education. Several subsequent phases will be necessary to accomplish an
overall improvement of secondary education. However, the impact on technical teacher education
is positive. The capacity to train technical teachers improved substantially with the establishment
of the two IECs. Through the Project, these institutions acquired the facilities, staff, programs
and equipment to produce annually 375 new teachers that can teach theory and practical classes
as well as about 100 in-service teachers. Both these type of teachers have a well-rounded
education and can possibly facilitate quality learning by students. In addition, theTTDCs and the
IECs are providing a constant stream of inputs to improve teaching standards, and the quality and
relevance of technical education. However, as noted earlier, only drastic policy measures leading
to the closure or transformation of the many inadequate secondary technical schools can bring
about the Project's goal of quality improvements in secondary education.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
39.  In January 1998, President Mubarak established four committees to devise a national
strategy for reform in education, training and scientific research. With regard to planning for the
Project's operational phase, a detailed plan has been prepared which proposes the following
operations: (a) undertaking a comprehensive evaluation of the outcome and impact of the Project
in terms of its labor market and economic and social impact and benefits; (b) completing the
operation and functioning of the Computer Network of Engineering Libraries; (c) expanding the
coverage and the usefulness of the Engineering Education Database; (d) continuing the
development of detailed and comprehensive laboratory manuals and experiments to complement
the IEC curricula; (e) continuing the production and dissemination of the best courseware and
laboratory manuals among participating engineering colleges; (f) continuing the periodic review,
upgrading and evaluation of IECs' programs and curricula; (g) establishing and testing a revenue-
9



generating technical teacher and instructor training program for private training centers and
industry; and (h) setting into motion a continuous upgrading and renewal of teacher education
programs at the Technical Teachers Development Centers.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.  Project implementation provided valuable lessons, the most pertinent ones are the
following:
(a) The competitive grants program used for the engineering education programs proved
to be an effective mechanism to bring about quality improvements in universities. The program
required the universities to compete for funds. The competitive element spurred Universities to
come-up with the best possible proposal. The participatory process of peer reviews also led to a
common practice of sharing lessons from experience among faculty members.
(b) The Bank must ensure that government regulations are not in conflict with the
procedures for implementing project activities and that joint planning with Government
concerned entities (PIU, custom and sales tax departments) are completed during the preparation
period. While the Bank's legal agreement stated that project-financed equipment are exempt
from government taxes, the preparation team did not examine the complex procedural
requirements to obtain such exemption nor planned for the considerable time it took to prepare
the necessary paperwork.
(c) Project start up was delayed due to lack of financing for project activities prior to
effectiveness. Since the Government does not want to borrow for Project Preparation Facilities, it
is necessary to obtain grants to finance preparation activities. A key start-up activity that should
be financed is the recruitment of qualified project implementation staff.
(d) The lesson that Government procurement methods should be reviewed and discussed
prior to effectiveness and Bank Standard Bidding Documents used in all Bank-financed
procurement activities supports the recent decision by the World Bank to require a detailed
procurement plan and manual prior to effectiveness. The World Bank now requires a detailed
procurement plan and an implementation manual spelling out implementation and procurement
procedures prior to project effectiveness. In the case of the Project, Government procurement
procedures should have been reviewed and aligned with Bank procedures prior to the
implementation of procurement activities which would have minimize the delays experienced.
(e) The Project objectives were clear and consistent with the Government strategy for
improving engineering and technical education. Projects that are well situated within a broader
strategy of reform owned by the Government can be a catalyst and lead to a full reform program.
The Project has turned out to be a catalyst for reform. A secondary education reform has already
begun under a Bank-assisted Secondary Education Enhancement Project which also include
technical secondary schools. Reforms of industrial training and higher education are being
planned by the Government and Donors.
(f) A full time project management team is key to a project's success and timely
implementation.
10



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 3137-EGT
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessment
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in the Project
Table 8:    Project Costs & Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions
11



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. ACHIEVEMENT OF
OBJECTIVES                     SUBSTANTIAL       PARTIAL      NEGLIGIBLE    NOT APPLICABLE
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development
Physical Objective                   V
Poverty Reduction                                                                    V
Gender Issues                                                            =
B. PROJECT
SUSTAINABILITY                 LIKELY                 UNLIKELY                UNCERTAIN
V
C. BANK
PERFORMANCE             HIGHLY SATISFACTORY         SATISFACTORY              DEFICIENT
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                    V
Appraisal                                                V/
Supervision                                               V
D. BORROWER
PERFORMANCE             HIGHLY SATISFACTORY         SATISFACTORY              DEFICIENT
Preparation
Implementation         _
Covenant Compliance
Operation                                                 V
E. ASSESSMENT OF        HIGHLY                                  NOT
OUTCOME             SATISFACTORY        SATISFACTORY       SATISFACTORY          DEFICIENT
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Number            Purpose of Project             Year of Approval          Status
Project Title
Preceding Operations
Cr.681-EGT            -Basic Vocational Training for the           1977               Completed
Education I              Construction Sector
-Apprenticeship Training for Industty
-Technical Training
-Skilled Worker Training
-Vocational Instructor Training
Cr.868-EGT           -Manpower development through skilled         1978               Completed
Education II         training for workers, technicians and
management
-Training of primary and secondary
teachers
-Population education
Cr. 1069-EGT          -Training of qualified workers,              1980               Completed
Education III            technicians and managers
-Training of secondary level mathematics
and science teachers
-Improving teaching skills of university
staff
Ln.2264-EGT           -Vocational Training for the construction    1983               Completed
Vocational Training      and industrial sectors
-Upgrading and expending instructor
training
Ln.2594-EGT          -Training of skilled craftsmen and            1985               Completed
Vocational Training      technicians for the Electricity sector
(Electricity)        -Training program for electrical
engineers
-In-service training for upgrading
engineers, technicians and skilled
craftsmen.
Following Operations
Cr.2476-EGT           -Basic Education                             1993                Ongoing
Basic Education       -Distance Education
Improvement.         -In-Service Teacher Training
-Educational Management Information
System
ITF N-0080           -Access & Equity; System Efficiency           1997                Ongoing
Education             -Distance Education
Enhancement Program   -Pre- and In-Service Teacher Training
-Educational Management Information
System
Cr.3194-EGT          -General Secondary Education                  1999            Not Yet Effective
Secondary Education    -Technical Schools
Enhancement Project   -Curricula and Assessment
-Institutional Development
13



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in the Project Cycle          Date Planned           Date Actually Completed
Identification                                                        06/88
Preparation                                                           08/88
Appraisal                               02/89                         02/89
Negotiations                            05/89                        09/01/89
Board Presentation                      06/89                        12/05/89
Signing                    X                                         05/29/90
Effectiveness                      9/29/90;3/25/91                   06/05/91
Project Completion                     12/31/96                      12/31/98
Project Closing                        06/30/96                      12/31/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate  .50    3.70    11.90   22.30   28.10   29.90   30.50    -
Actual              -       -      .29    2.20    4.00    11.18   19.40   25.24   29.60
Actual as % of Est.                2%      10%    14%    37%    64%         -
Date of Final Disbursement
DISBURSEMENTS - PLAN VS. ACTUAL
US$  000    20m
15                            [M~~~~~~~~ ACTUAL'
Li  .L       > -O
FISCAL YEARS
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
PART A: UNIVERSITY ENGINEERING EDUCATION:
This component aimed to implement a program for modernization of university engineering education towards
a more applied orientation and strong linkage with industry, through upgrading of facilities, laboratory
equipment, updating of curricula and instructional materials and technical assistance. Subprojects under this
program of activities were undertaken as follows:
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                        RESULT
1. Specialized engineering development, including:  The Minister of Higher Education formed the Engineering
Education Program Group (EEPG) in 1992 which was
composed of the Program Director, representatives from
the MOHE, the Supreme Council of Universities, as well
as representatives from industry. The mandate of the
EEPG included policy formulation, development of
program related criteria and procedures and the overall
supervision of the implementation of the various projects
under the program. A preliminary evaluation committee
and a technical evaluation committee were formed to
participate in the preliminary and final evaluation of the
proposals submitted by the participating universities.
(a) the preparation for adoption by the colleges of
engineering of:
(i) new academic programs to accommodate emerging  (i) A database on the status of basic and engineering
fields of engineering;                             science courses in Egyptian colleges of engineering was
established. The database was used for the development
of model curricula and specification of textbooks,
courseware and equipment for computer fundamentals,
mathematics, physics, chemistry, basic electronics, basic
electrical systems, thermodynamics, fluid mechanics,
material science and engineering workshops.
(ii) interdisciplinary programs combining knowledge and   (ii) Two databases were developed and made available to
skills from two or more traditional engineering areas;  the engineering education community; and a faculty
database for approximately 4000 engineering faculty
members in 18 colleges of engineering was put in place.
(iii) programs to improve the skills of engineers; and  (iii) The program supported initiatives to study a number
of quality assurance systems in engineering education,
and use them to develop a framework of program quality
self-assessment. The framework was used to conduct
self-assessment in three different engineering programs in
three different engineering colleges. Results of the pilot
studies were disseminated to all other engineering
colleges.
(iv) programs to upgrade engineering laboratories and  (iv) The program provided funds to establish and/or
workshops;                                         upgrade a total of 159 laboratories in 18 colleges of
engineering in Egyptian universities. The average cost
per laboratory was slightly under $100,000.
15



PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                        RESULT
(b) the preparation and implementation of related training  Training completed. No fellowship training was
and/or fellowship programs.                        undertaken.
2. Maintenance of instructional facilities and the training   Completed successfully. Project proposals contained
of maintenance coordinators and technicians.       components for maintenance training and funding was
provided to assist universities to establish equipment
maintenance and repair programs to support the new
laboratories and improve the long term sustainability of
the EEDP results. Feasibility studies for a number of the
equipment maintenance strategies were supported also
under the program.
3. Assistance to the engineering colleges in the   The preparation facility was utilized successfully.
preparation of subprojects under (1) and (2) above.  Specifically two services were designed to provide
assistance to colleges of engineering, especially those in
the new regional universities during the preparation phase
and the implementation phase of the project cycle. The
main objective of these two services was to improve the
opportunity of success for the small universities and
achieve a degree of equity in the program.
PART B: TECHNICAL TEACHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT:
Modernization of technical education so as to improve teaching methods (including the merger of the two
practical and theoretical teaching streams), improve curriculum development methods, develop and produce
high quality instructional materials and increase the supply of technical teachers, through:
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                        RESULTS
1. The establishment and equipping of two new industrial  The two IECs are fully operational. All the equipment
education colleges (IECs) for the training of technical  procured under the program for the IECs have been
teachers in Kubba (a technical school for workshop  delivered and installed in the IECs. There are over 25
instructors training) and Beni Suef                new laboratories and workshops in each of the IECs. The
equipment represents the state of the art in technology
education, and some of the workshops are better than
those found in most faculties of engineering, and much
better than counterpart laboratories in the intermediate
and higher technical institutes.
2. A program to ensure the timely and proper functioning   The Deans of the IECs have established laboratory teams
of the IECs.                                       led by the new returning faculty from Holland and the UK
to commission the equipment and integrate the laboratory
experiments in the curricula. Twenty-two instructors
were selected and dispatched for training at Eindhoven
Technical University in Holland. Nine additional
instructors are undertaking the 24-month Masters'
program at Eindhoven and six instructors are completing
Doctoral programs in the UK.
3. In-Service Training Program.                    Ongoing with continuous monitoring and assessment to
update the programs.
16



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
PROJECT DEVELO PMENT OBJECTIVES                                          STATUS
A. The Engineering Eduication Development Program
1. Improving the Quality of Engineering Curricula.  A key criteria for funding projects under the EEDP was the redesign of
the structure of the program under consideration to meet prevailing
international standards conceming the composition, balance and integrity
of programs. One of the major achievements of the EEDP has been the
survey and documentation of all basic and engineering science courses in
all 18 engineering programs in Egypt. 'Model' courses based on typical
intemational standards were developed and shared among the
participating universities. Integration of theory and practical experience
in the laboratories was one of the comer stones of the selection process to
ensure that the equipment procured through the project was effectively
integrated in the curriculum. The refurbishing of physical space to house
newly procured equipment was one of the main criteria for funding
projects under the EEDP. EEDP supported the curricular documentation
of many courses funded under the Project. Examination of the results of
this process by peer reviewers showed marked improvement in the
quality of the products.
2. Improving the Occupational Relevance of Eng.   Faculties that applied for grants were required to show clear and
Graduates.                                        documented evidence of the relevance of the skills and competencies
acquired in the new laboratory/equipment to the needs of industry.
Representatives from industry participated for five years in EEDP
committees to: develop, modify and apply the criteria for project selection
to ensure relevance of projects to industrial practice.
3. Improve the efficiency and ensure effectiveness in the  A key indicator was the sharing of curriculum development information.
delivery of engineering programs in Egypt.        Databases were developed by EEDP for: (a) all basic and engineering
science courses in the participadng universities; and (b) all courses (old
and new) involving labs funded by EEDP. EEDP developed, through the
project's PIU, a comprehensive engineering equipment database that has
become a very useful and sustainable resource for the engineering
education community in Egypt. EEDP included the development of
equipment maintenance strategies as an important criteria in the selection
of projects to be funded. These criteria included maintenance contract,
maintenance training and long-tefm equipment guarantees. The EEDP,
and by inference the engineering education community, managed through
the leaming experience to improve efficiency in the project by steadily
reducing the average allocation per project from US$160,000 in the first
procurement cycle to US$70,000 in the sixth cycle.
4. Capacity building of the engineering education  One hundred and fifty-nine new laboratories were established with an
system.                                           average overall cost of about US$100,000 per lab. All 18 faculties of
engineering in Egypt benefited from the project. A new electronic library
system is being established and funded under the EEDP to allow the
cataloging and sharing of library resources among all engineering schools
in Egypt. The EEDP funded a very successful pilot project for the
development of multimedia-based curricular development that will allow
the sharing of developed courses among the 18 faculties of engineering.
EEDP developed and tested a system for quality auditing of existing
engineering education programs based on self-assessment followed by
peer review. This pilot experiment was a first of its kind in Egypt and
could be the base for an engineering accreditation system.
17



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Pg2
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                                    STATUS
B. The Technical Teacher Educaton Development Program
I Reform of Technical Teacher Education   The Kubba and Beni Suef IECs were established as a reform
measure in technical teacher education to provide pre-service, and
in-service education for a 'new' type of technical teacher that
combines theory and practice. Detailed curricula were developed
and published for 10 advanced 'generic' technological disciplines
by committees of Egyptian specialists. Curricula combine the
following components: (a) general education; (b) technological
foundations; (c) technological skills; (d) industrial specializations;
and (e) education theory and practice.
2. Improve the Quality of Technical Teacher  The curricula for the above-mentioned ten IEC disciplines were
Education                                  very favorably evaluated by a British team funded by the TTEDP.
A customized MA program in technical education was developed
for 22 new faculty recruits for the IECs. The program used terms
of reference developed by the TTEDP using the same reform
guiding principles used to develop the IEC curricula. Construction
was completed at the Kubba and Beni Suef IECs to house new
laboratories. The quality of the facilities represents a major
improvement on any existing technical teacher institutions in
Egypt.
3. Improve the Relevance of Technical Teacher   The participation of industrialists to date in the development of the
Education                                 IECs included the following: (a) participation in the management
of the project through the various TTEDP committees; and (b)
participation in advisory capacity in the curricula development.
All ten approved IEC curricula include the following components:
(a) 'practice teaching' assignments in neighboring technical
secondary schools; (b) training of trainers assignment in
participating industries; and (c) a technical education project
involving curriculum development or the use of educational
technology in laboratory/workshop development.
18



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No studies were fornally commissioned under the Project. However, a study for the
development of an in-service teacher training program was completed in October 1992, and
another study on labor market needs was completed in February 1994.
Table 8: Project Costs & Financing
EXPENSE           PART A: EEDP          PART B: TTEDP           TOTAL COSTS
CATEGORIES         IBRD      GOVT.       IBRD       GOVT.      IBRD       GOVT.
1. Works               -         .138         -        5.447        -         5.585
2. Goods              16.646     1.541      9.923       1.131     26.569      2.672
3. Experts            .595       .939       .316        .179       .911       1.118
4. Training           .066         -        2.016        -         2.082    _
[TOTAL                17.307      2.618      12.255     6.757      29.562      9.375
NOTE: Government expenditures shown are up to May 1999 only.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
These costs were not calculated for the Project. However, the Project was expected to yield very
significant economic benefits. By supporting the strengthening of engineering and technical
education, it would make a major contribution to Egypt's manpower training efforts aimed at
increasing productivity in the economy and expanding export-oriented industries. Improvement
in the quality and job relevance of engineering education would enable the universities to meet
more adequately the needs of the economy as technology-intensive companies would benefit
greatly from better quality engineering graduates with appropriate industrial knowledge and
practical experience. Through the development of better qualified technical teachers with
instructional competence in both theory and practice, the Project would increase the quality and
relevance of secondary and post-secondary technical education, thus improving the technical
education system's ability to produce well-trained skilled technicians and workers.
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance
19



Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan 3137-EGT
Original
Covenant   Present      Fulfillment
Section      Type       Status        Date            Description of Covenant             Comments
4.01(a)       01          C                      The Borrower shall cause MOHE    Done.
to maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices,
the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Project.
4.01(b)       01          C                      The Borrower shall cause MOHE    Done.
to have the records and accounts,
including those for the Special
Account and the maintenance
account, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
Sch.5(l)      10          C                       The PIU shall be established and  The PIU was established and
maintained with an adequate     has functioned satisfactorily.
number of specialists in financial
accounting, procurement and
technical assistance coordination.
Sch.5(2a)      10         C                       The Minister of MOHE shall       Done.
appoint a Project Director for Part
A of the project who shall have
appropriate qualifications and
authority adequate for the
performance of his duties.
Sch.5(2bi)     tO          C         06/30/1990    An Engineering Education Program   Done.
Group (EEPG) shall be formed by
the Minister of MOHE on the
recommendation of the Project
Director. EEPG shall act as a
technical body responsible for the
development of procedures for the
management of subprojects and for
actual evaluation and supervision
therefore.
Sch.5(2bii)    10          C         09/30/1990    EEPG shall be assisted in the   Completed with local experts
development of suitable policies  only.
and procedures for its work by an
advisory panel which shall be
established and shall consist of
local and foreign specialists who
shall advise on matters regarding
the development and content of
engineering education.
COVENANT CLASS - I  Accounts/Audit; 10  Implementation
COVENANT STATUS - C = Completed
20



Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Pg.2
Original
Covenant   Present       Fulfillment
Section      Type       Status         Date            Description of Covenant              Comments
Sch.5(2biv)     10          C                       Engineering colleges requesting  Done.
approval of subprojects for the
purchase of laboratory equipment
under Part A(2) of the project shall
be required to establish and
maintain a separate account, in
accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, for
financing the maintenance of their
laboratories, workshops and other
instructional facilities.
Sch.5(3a)      10          C                       The Minister of MOHE shall       Done.
appoint a Project Director for Part
B of the project, who shall have
adequate qualifications and
authority for the performance of his
duties. The Project Director shall
be responsible, in coordination with
the PIU, for the preparation and for
the carrying out of said Part of the
Project and for the development of
the IECs' new curriculum.
Sch.5(3b)      10          C                       The establishment, equipping and    Done.
staffing of the IECs shall be
undertaken in accordance with a
plan, the content and time schedule
of which shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
Sch.5(3bi)     10          C                        The plan for the IECs shall provide   Done. Completion schedule
for the completion of construction    delayed.
work with respect to the IEC in
Cairo by 09/01/1990 and with
respect to the IEC in Beni-Suef by
the end of July 1991.
Sch.5(3bii)     10          C                       The plan for the IECs shall provide   Done. Completion schedule
for the finalization, on the basis of   delayed.
a technical teacher training plan, of
curriculum details for the IEC in
Cairo by 08/31/90, for its first and
second years program by 08/31/91;
for its third and fourth year
program by 08/31/92.
Sch.5(3biii)    10          C         07/31/1992    The IEC plan shall provide for the   Done. Completion Schedule
procurement of equipment by     delayed.
07/31/1992.
21



Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants
Pg.3
Original
Covenant   Present    Fulfillment
Section       Type      Status        Date            Description of Covenant              Comments
Sch.5(3biv)     10          C                      The IEC plan shall provide for the   The required staff have been
recruitment, in accordance with an   appointed.
appropriate staffing plan, of the
staff required for the IECs in Cairo
by July31, 1991 and of the staff
required for the IEC in Beni-Suef
by July 31, 1992.
Sch.5(3bv)      10         C         09101/1990    The IEC plan shall provide for the   Done. Implementation
preparation of an implementation    schedule was later than
plan for in-service training of  planned.
existing teachers by September 1,
1990.
Sch.5(3bvi)      10         C        05/31/1993    The IEC plan shall provide for the   Done. Completion Schedule
preparation, by May 31, 1993 of a   delayed.
plan for deployment of new
teachers and for the carrying out of
related administrative reforms
required for integration of the two
practical and theoretical teaching
streamns.
Sch.5(3bvii)     10        C          06/30/1990    The [EC plan shall provide for the   Completed. The Plan follows
adoption, by June 30, 1990 of a  Government regulations for
remuneration system for the IECs    institutions of higher education.
comparable to that of newly
established technology institutions,
and which shall enable the IECs to
attract and retain qualified teaching
staff.
Sch.5(3c)       10         C                       The Borrower shall establish: (i) by   Done. Completion schedule
05/01/90, a Board of Management   delayed.
for the IEC in Cairo, and (ii) by
10/31/90, a Board of Management
for the IEC in Beni-Suef, with
representatives from MOE, MOHE
and industry. The Boards shall
provide guidance to the Project
Director for Part B of the project
with regard to the formulation of
the IECs' programs and ensure
coordination between the IECs and
MOE.
22



Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                   Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                  US$                       US$                       US$
Weeks         '000       Weeks         '000        Weeks         '000
Through Appraisal                                                                69.0        171.4
Appraisal-Board                                                                  24.9         62.6
Board-Effectiveness                                                              6.5          19.7
Supervision                   -            -                                    96.9         244.1
Completion                   10.0         30.0                                   10.0         30.0
TOTAL                10.0         30.0                                  207.3        527.8
23



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
STAGE OF                NUMBER   TOTAL    SPECIALIZED
PROJECT   MONTH/           OF       FIELD    STAFF SKILLS    PERFORMANCE RATINGNS    TYPES OF
CYCLE       YEAR    PERSONS    DAYS    REPRESENTED                                            PROBLEMS
IMPLEMEN        DEVELOP-
TATION          MENT
STATUS       OBJECTIVES
Through        12/88        5          17     EE,DC,Techn.EdT
Appraisal      02/89        7          14       Ed,AE,TEd,A,
TTrg,Equipt.,
Appraisal        -           -          -
through
Board
Approval
Board          05/91        4          15        00,IS,TEd,
Approval                                           TTrng.
through
Effective-
ness
Supervision    1 (12/91)    5          13        00, IS, TEd,         2                              M
Tech.Ed,Disb.O.
2 (09/92)     2          14        00, Tech.Ed.         I
3 (12/93)     3          11       00,IS,Tech.Ed.        I
4 (06/94)     2          14          O0, IS             I
5 (01/95)     4          14        00, IS, CP          U               S              EP
6 (06/95)     3           8      00, IS, Tech.Ed.      U               S              EP
7 (11/95)     3           7       Ed, IS, TTmg.         S              S
8 (05/96      2          14         IS,Proc.           S               S
9 (12/96)     3          10        Ed,lS, Proc.         S              S               -
10 (04/97)     2          2          IS, Proc.          S              HS               -
11(10/97)      1          5          Tech.Ed.           S              HS               -
12 (11/97)     3          9        Ed,IS, Proc.         S              HS               -
13 (04/98)     4          6           Ed.,IS,           S              HS               -
Proc.,Tech.Ed.       S              HS               -
14 (10/98)     2          3          EE, IS,            S              HS               -
15 (12/98)     2          2          IS, Proc.          S              HS               -
Completion     02/99         1          8         Tech.Ed.            S              HS
05/99          3           5         Ed,Proc,lS          S              HS
NOTE: Supervision of the project was carried out in conjunction with other projects in the Education portfolio.
Staff Specializations: A = Architect; CP = Computer Programming Specialist; DC = Division Chief; Ed.= Education
Specialist; EE = Education Economist; Equip. = Equipment Sepcialist; Disb.O.= Disbursement Officer; TEd.=
Technical Education Specialist; TTmg.= Teacher Training Specialist; Techn.Ed. = Education Technology Specialist;
00 = Operations Officer; IS = Implementation Specialist; Proc. = Procurement Specialist.
Types of Problems = M= Managerial; TA = Technical Assistance; TR = Training; CP = Civil Works Procurement;
EP = Equipment Procurement
Ratings: I = Minor or Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems;
S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
24



ANNEX I
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 3137-EGT
AIDE MEMOUIE
for the
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
MAY 1999
25



AIDE MEMOIRE
for the
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
MAY 1999
INTRODUCTION
1.   While in Cairo to undertake a review of the education sector portfolio of projects under
implementation, Ms. Mae Chu Chang, Principal Educator for the Human Development Group,
Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSHD), carried out a implementation completion
mission for the above Project. Ms. Chang was assisted by Mr. Mahmoud Gamal El Din,
Procurement/Implementation Specialist (MNCEG), and Ms. Patricia Maughan (Consultant). The
team met with the Project Director, Dr. Mohsen El Mahdy Said and the staff of the project
implementation unit (PIU) to discuss the experiences of the project's implementation phase and
to assist in expediting final disbursement issues. The Bank team is grateful for the excellent
support received from Mr. Mostafa Abou Shusha (Procurement Officer) and Mr. Ali Omar Ali
(Financial Officer) of the PIU. The Bank team also met with staff of the Resident Mission to
discuss outstanding payment and to expedite the preparation by the Borrower of their part of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.   The Loan, in the amount of $30.5 million, was approved on December 5, 1989 and became
effective on June 5, 1991. It financed two components: (a) an Engineering Education
Development Program (EEDP) which helped to improve: (i) the quality of engineering curricula
at eighteen faculties of engineering; (ii) the occupational relevance of engineering graduates; and
(iii) efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of engineering education programs in Egypt; and
(b) A Technical Teacher Education Development Program (TTEDP) to improve the quality and
relevance of technical teacher education in Egypt. The Project closed on December 31, 1998
after three extensions of the closing date.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TIONHIGHLIGHTS
3.   Project start up was very slow as the team selected to implement the Project had to be
replaced by experts who could manage the Project on a full-time basis. Once the new PIU group
took control, a revised time schedule for the Project's implementation was prepared and
procurement for the components, in particular for the EEDP commenced immediately. The PIU
team is to be commended for the methodical way in which they approached this task. They
selected and established a suitable computer database program to manage the numerous
procurement activities. However, the procurement process was complex
and time consuming, and the original closing date of the Project (June 30, 1996) had to be
extended thrice to allow for the completion of the procurement. The Resident Mission in Cairo
was very helpful in expediting the review of bidding documentation for Bank approval.
PROJECT COSTS
4.   The Project was estimated to cost $38.6 million. The actual costs were $38.9 million. The
Bank loan, in the amount of $30.5 million was 97% utilized. A balance of $0.9 million will be
cancelled. This amount represents the cost of a contract for the technical teachers who were
26



trained in Holland which could not be completed by the closing date. The Government's
contribution was greater than planned due to higher construction costs of the IECs.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(Plan vs. Actual)
US$ Million
PLAN                            ACTUAL
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE     Gov't.     Bank      Total      Gov't.       Bank         Total
Refurbishing (Civil Works)     5.1        0.0       5.1         5.6          -           5.6
Goods (Equipment and           0.4       21.3      21.7         2.7        26.6         29.3
Instructional Materials)                                            _
Specialists                    0.2        2.9       3.1         1.1        0.9           2.0
Training                        1.5       3.5       5.0           -         2.1          2.1
Maintenance                    0.3        0.3       0.6                      -
Unallocated (Contingencies)    0.7        2.4       3.1           -          -
TOTAL             t       8.2      30.4       38.6        9.4        29.6         39.0
SOURCE: Staff Appraisal Report (Plan) and PIU accounting records (Actual)
NOTE: Some figures do not add up due to rounding.
5.    The Government is to be commended for the way in which the Universities and the many
consultative committees were organized to review proposals for project financing. Substantial
inputs were received from numerous local specialists for preparing equipment specifications;
preparing the new curricula for the IECs; and contributing to other consultative activities. To
select state-of-the-art equipment for the engineering faculties, committees comprising more than
180 university and industry experts were consulted. Compliance with Loan covenants was good
as well as audit and progress reporting.
PROJECT OUTCOMES
6.    The Engineering Education Development Program (EEDP). The developmental
objectives for this component were substantially achieved. The quality of the engineering
curricula, the occupational relevance of engineering graduates, and the efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of engineering programs were all improved. Capacity building of
the engineering education system was also achieved through the construction of new laboratory
facilities and the new equipment. An electronic engineering library system was established, and
an engineering education accreditation system was developed.
27



EEDP BENEFICIARIES
ENGINEERING FACULTY                NO. OF LABS                   COST (US$)
Ain Shams                                20                          2.20
Alexandria                               10                           1.37
Assiut                                    8                           .66
Al Azhar                                  1                           .08
Cairo Sad92.94
Fayoum E                                                              .25
Helwan                                    8                           .48
Kafr El-Sheikh                            7                           .53
Mansoura                                  9                           .40
Matau a                                                               .43
Menia                                     6                           .43
Menouf                                    3.27
Port Said                                 9                           .77
Shebin El-Kom                             9.79
Shoubra                                  15.90
Suez                                     10                           .55
Zagazig                                  11                           .71
Library Automation Plan*                                              1.59
Other Direct Procurement * *              5                           1.52
Total                         159                         16.87
NOTE: * All 18 Faculties are networked together (total includes Tanta which is not listed)
** Procurement includes 5 labs for the Faculty of Engineering at Tanta University.
7.   The Technical Teacher Education Development Program (TTEDP). Technical teacher
education was reformed through the establishment and operation of the two new IECs at Kubba
and Beni Suef. A new curricula was developed for the IECs to reflect the emerging technological
disciplines and the intended reform to combine theory and practice. Improvements in the quality
of technical teacher education are evident from the excellent evaluation of the curricula
developed for the IECs by international experts, the quality of the new IEC faculty, and the
quality of the physical as well as the educational and training resources in the IECs.
8.   IEC Graduates. The IEC at Kubba has been graduating technical teachers since the 1980s,
but began to graduate qualified teachers using the new curricula in the 1993/94 academic year.
There has been a steady growth in the number of graduates as indicated in the Table below. The
IEC at Beni-Suef graduated the first group of technical teachers in the 1997/98 academic year.
IEC Graduates
Year                      Kubba IEC                   Beni-Suef IEC
93/94                         135
94/95                         116
95/96                         121
96/97                        211
97/98                        231                           143
9.   Laboratories and Workshops. All the equipment procured under the TTEDP have been
delivered and installed in the IECs. There are over 25 new laboratories and workshops in each of
28



the IECs. This equipment represent the state of the art in technology education, and some of the
workshops are better than those found in most faculties of engineering, and much better than
counterpart laboratories in the intermediate and higher technical institutes.
10. In-Service Training and The Technical Teacher Development Center. Both IECs have
dedicated part of their equipment to establish Technical Teacher Development Centers (TTDCs).
These centers, when fully established and completed, will provide teacher training for teachers in
the Intermediate and Higher Technical Institutes, as well as training of trainers in industry. The
IEC at Kubba has already upgraded the qualification of technical practice teachers in technical
secondary schools through an in-service program. The number of graduates from the program in
various disciplines is shown in the Table below.
In-Service Graduates in Discipline
Year      Production    AC&R      Automotive    Electrical    Electronics  Total
93/94        32           13          15           22          13          100
94195        26           16           8           20          8           78
95/96        10           14          11           16          12           63
96/97        16           13          12           23          20           84
Totals       84           56          46          127          53          325
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIONEPORT (ICR)
11.  The preparation of the ICR began during the last supervision mission before the Project's
closing date (December 31, 1998). In February 1999, Mr. Samih Mikhail (Consultant Technical
Education Specialist) visited Egypt to prepare a detailed qualitative assessment of the Project's
achievements. He also assisted the PIU team in formulating a plan for the operational phase of
the Project (attached to this report as Annex 2). Mr. Joseph Bredie, Senior Education Specialist
(AFTH4) worked with the task team to finalize the ICR. The report is expected to be presented to
the Bank's Board of Directors on June 29, 1999. The PIU managers, Dr. Mohsen El Mahdy Said
(Director of Project Administration); Dr. Hussein Anis (Director for the EEDP Component); and
Dr. Mohammed Kamel El Said (Director for the TTEDP Component) prepared the Borrower's
Report (Annex 3). The Bank team had an opportunity to discuss the findings of this report during
the completion mission and complimented the team on the thoroughness of their report.
World Bank ICR Mission
Cairo, Egypt
May 1999
29



ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN 3137-EGT
THE OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
30



Proposed Plan to Maximize Project's Benefits and Sustainability of Outcomes
RATIONALE
There is a consensus, among Egyptian officials as well as international experts who reviewed the
Project, that it has achieved its objectives, and that considerable progress has been made in
improving the quality and relevance of engineering and technical education in Egypt, as a result
of the innovative initiatives and programs introduced through it.
A number of factors, however, should be considered as justifications for allocating resources in
this proposed plan to maximize the benefits accrued from the Project, and to ensure the
sustainability of its outcomes. First, the impact of a number of initiatives reviewed in Part I could
not be adequately evaluated because of the Project's implementation schedule. Second, the
sustainability of other initiatives is critically dependent on completion of additional training and
development activities that could not be completed in time. Finally, the Project involves
innovative initiatives such as the establishment of an automated engineering library that were not
conceptualized in the original project design. The additional proposed activities in this plan would
maximize the benefits of establishing the library by completing a series of critical training
programs for library personnel and soft-ware engineers.
The Government of Egypt's investment in this project exceeds LE 150 million. This plan
proposes the allocation of approximately LE 4 million from the remaining local funds to the
series of initiatives outlined below. This relatively modest investment would ensure the
maximization of Projects benefits, and the sustainability of many of its achievemrents. The plan
was developed by the consultant in cooperation with the Project management team; the Director
of the Project's PIU Dr Mohsen El Mahdy Said, the Director of the EEDP, Dr Hussein Anis and
the Director of the TTEDP, Dr Mohamed El Said.
OBJECTIVES OF THE PLAN
The plan has four important objectives:
* To complete the evaluation of Project's outcome and its impact on all the stakeholders;
*  To support a number of critical measures needed to ensure the sustainability of Project's
achievements;
* To complete the documentation of the best practices and lessons learned from the EEDP, the
TTEDP and PIU experiences, and use them as inputs to inform the design of the proposed
new project of reform in higher education; and
*  To provide a link to the new project by developing a series of monitoring, evaluation and
benchmarking instruments and testing them on institutions and programs supported by the
- Project.
31



OPERATIONAL PLAN
Expected Outcome      | Proposed Activies                        Estimated Cost           Potential Sources of
ExpectededOCtctme        Funding
Objective 1: To complete the evaluation of project's outcome and its impact on all stakeholders.
Comprehensive           Develop a comprehensive evaluation       6-8 person-months of     Remaining local funds
Evaluation of outcome   instrument for EEDP including existing   local consultants       in the project.
and impact of the project,  indicators and additional indicators as
and its two programs    suggested by consultant.
EEDP and TEDP
Undertake detailed evaluation of the outcome   30-36 person-months of
of EEDP in the 18 colleges of engineering and  local consultants
159 projects benefiting from evaluation.
Develop a comprehensive evaluation      4-6 person-months of     Remaining local funds
instrument for TEDP including existing   local consultants       in the project and/or
indicators and additional indicators as
suggested by consultant.                                         The $ 500,000 funds
from the UN-based
Undertake detailed evaluation of the outcome   10-12 person-months of   Fund for Arab
of TEDP in the two IECs at Kubba and Beni-  local consultants    Development (AKFA)
Suef.
Objective 2: To support a number of critical measures needed to ensure the sustainability of project's achievements
Extend the awareness and   Undertake Program Quality Self-Assessment    12-15 person-months of   Remaining local funds
knowledge of program    using the framework developed and        local consultants       in the project
quality self-assessment  documented by EEDP to five more
practices to 50% of     engineering programs.
engineering colleges in
Egypt.
Complete development of  Hire and train a group of young software  6x24= 144 person months  Remaining local funds
the Computer Network of  engineers to continue the development of  of software system     on the projecr
Engineering Libraries   CNEL                                     engineers salaries
CNEL.
Provide Training for Software engineers and    6-8 person months of  Remaining local funds
System Librarians                       local consultants        In the project
2 persons months of     Remaining local funds
intemational expert    in the project
trainer! consultant
Complete the            Continue working with EEDP working        10-12 person months of    Remaining local funds
Development of the      committees to complete engineering education  local experts      in the project
Engineering Education   database to include comprehensive list of all
Database                courses in all colleges of engineering.
Complete Multimedia     Identify two additional multimedia pilot  10-12 person months of
Pilot Projects and      projects and contract local faculty experts to    local experts   Remaining local funds
enhance the benefits    develop and document the courses developed                       in the project
gained from it.         using the project completed under EEDp as
model
Complete the            Contract qualified graduate engineers as  576 (2x12x12) person-    Remaining local funds
development of detailed   technical support staff in the two IECs for two   months ofjunior  in the project and/or
and comprehensive lab   years to complete the process of         engineers salaries       The $ 500,000 funds
manuals and experiments  commissioning of laboratory equipment, and                       from the UN-based
to complement the       the development of experiments and lab                            Fund for Arab
detailed curricula of the    manuals                                                      Development (AKFA)
IEC's programs
Local faculty consultants to supervise the  20-24 person months of
integration laboratory experiments in the  local consultants
curriculum
32



Objective 3: To complete the documentation of the best practices and lessons learned from EEDP, TEDP and PUI experience
and use them as inputs to inform the design of the proposed design of the new project of reform in higher education
Produce and disseminate   Evaluate and select best laboratory manuals in  10-12 person-months of   Remaining local funds
best courseware and lab    basic science, engineering science and core    local consultants.  in the project
manuals among           engineering subjects, and produce and     Production costs of
participating engineering   disseminate them to other colleges of  manuals.
colleges                engineering in the system.
Continue the process of    Undertake systematic review and modification   20-24 person months of    Remaining local funds
reviewing, upgrading and   of all IEC programs an courses developed in   local consultants  in the project and /or
evaluating all IEC's    the 1992-1994 period.                                              The $ 500,000 funds
programs and curricula                                                                     from the UN-based
Assessment of curricular changes by extemal   2 person months of  Fund for Arab
intemational consultants                 intemational             Development (AKFA)
experts/consultants
Establish and pilot-test  Develop 6-8 short-term technical upgrading  16-20 person-months of   Remaining local funds
revenue-generating      courses based on the best practices in IEC's    local consultants  in the project and /or
training and upgrading  courses in deliver them in pilot projects to the                   The $ 500,000 funds
programs in the Technical  teaching staff, and administrators of the                       from the UN-based
Teachers Development    Intermediate Technical Institutes ITIs.                            Fund for Arab
Centers TTDCs.                                                                             Development (AKFA)
Objective 4: To provide a link to the new project by developing a series of monitoring, evaluation and benchmarking
instruments and testing them on institutions and programs supported by ETEP.
Comprehensive           Develop a comprehensive generic frame work   12-15 person-months of   Remaining local funds
documented monitoring    for monitoring, evaluation and other project    local consultants.  in the project and other
and evaluation framework  management tools relevant to the university's   Production costs of  potential sources of
for the new project     sector in the new project based on the results   documentation.    funds.
of the use of similar tools in EEDP.
Develop a similar comprehensive generic   6-8 person-months of
frame work for monitoring and evaluation for  local consultants.
use in the non-university sector in the new  Production costs of  Remaining local funds
project.                                  documentation.          in the project.
Frameworks of           Use the experience gained in EEDP to develop   10-12 person months of    Remaining local funds
benchmarking institutions  guidelines and strategies for benchmarking  local consultants   in the project.
and their programs in the   institutions and academic programs in the
university and non-     university sector by accessing information
university sectors      databases as well as the Internet. The
benchmarks include the following:
* University Governance and Funding
* Academic Programs' Administration
* Academic Programs Quality
* Teaching/learning Practices
*   Quality Assessment
Develop guidelines and strategies for     4-6 person months of    Remaining local funds
benchmarking institutions and programs in the  local consultants  in the project
non-university sector by accessing the Internet
33



PROPOSED BUDGET
Budget Item      Quantity       Unit      Unit Cost (LE)  Subtotal (LE)
Local Consultants    230      Person month       5000         1,150,000
Software Engineers    144      Person month      2500          360,000
Junior Engineers    576       Person month      1500          864,000
International       4       Person months     50,000        200,000
Consultants
Publications / Other                                           500,000
PIU Administration     2          Year          250,000        500,000
Subtotal                                                  3,574,000
10% Contingency                                                357,400
3,931,400
34



ANNEX 3
Borrower's Report



ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (ETEP)
Loan No. 3137-EGT
Borrower's Report
INTRODUCTION
This report is the Borrower's portion of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Engineering and
Technical Education Project (ETEP), the World Bank supported project under the loan agreement no. 3137-
EGT. The report is presented in three parts. The first and second parts of the Borrower's report present the
achievements and lessons learned during the implementation of both project components EEDP and TTEDP
respectively. The third part includes the PIU experiences, with emphasis on financial and procurement issues.
All three parts of the report focus on the obstacles and impediments that caused delays in the implementation
of the two project components, and how they were handled and/or resolved. Lessons learned, critical self-
assessment and recommendations for similar future projects are also included to reflect the Borrower's points
of view and experiences acquired by the Management Team.
OBJECTIVES OF THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (ETEP)
The project's goal is the improvement and strengthening of Engineering and Technical Education in Egypt. To
respond to this challenge, the stated objectives of the project are to:
a) Improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education in Egyptian universities; and;
b) Improve the quality of secondary and post secondary technical education in Egypt by supporting the
development of a new, more effective type of technical education institutions, which would meet the
growing demand for better prepared, and qualified technical teachers.
Each part of the report will briefly address how these objectives were met from the point of view of the
Borrower (Management Team).
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The management team, PIU Director, EEDP Director and TTEDP Director wish to acknowledge with gratitude
all those who contributed to the success and completion of the ETEP project from the various local government
authorities that were concerned with the project. Their genuine support was very helpful, despite the hard
times and numerous problems that encountered the PIU during implementation. The staff members and
consultants that were affiliated with the project played a major role towards its success during all phases of
project implementation.
The team also wishes to acknowledge with appreciation the efforts made by the World Bank Supervision
Missions teams who were very supportive and responsive to any PIU requests, particularly in resolving
problems and giving timely and sound advise. Equally, the team wishes to acknowledge the continual efforts
and support given by the Resident Mission personnel, and in particular those concerned with procurement.
Ever since the Resident Mission was established in Cairo, considerable improvement was introduced to the
procurement process, despite the slow start until the Resident Mission was fully established, and after
appropriate authorities were given to the procurement officer to resolve immediately many of the various
problems encountered by the PIU.
2



TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
OBJECTIVES OF THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (ETEP)
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
PART I:    ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (EEDP)
Achievements and Lessons Learned
Program Objectives
Achievements of Program Objectives
Summary of EEDP Achievement
Project's Critical Review
PART II:   TECHNICAL TEACHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (TTEDP)
Achievements and Lessons Learned
Program Objectives
Achievement of Program Objectives
Review
Program Activities
*   IEC Graduate Profile
*   IEC's Program Design Committee
*   Discipline Curriculum Design Committees
*   Foreign Technical Assistance
*   Cairo Workshop
Staff Training
Pre-Service Training Program
In-Service Training Program
Refurbishing
Laboratories and Workshops
Teacher Training and Development Center (T`TDC)
*   Program Sustainability
*   Future operation
*   Problems Encountered
* Establishment of Buildings
*   Installation of Equipment in Workshops and Labs
* Recruiting of Technicians and the Administrative Staff
*   Local Funds Allocation
*   Students Background
* Teaching Language
* Employment of Graduates
PART III:      IMPLEMENTING AGENCY - PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIIJ)
PIU Experience
Introduction
Project Background Information
Financial Records
Procurement Records
Lessons Learned
Financial Issues
Procurement Issues
Overall Project Implementation
3



APPENDICES
Appendix I. 1:  Procedural Chart of EEDP Policy
Appendix 1.2:   Statistics of Funded Proposed Plans
Appendix I.3:   Proposal Preparation Assistance Service
Appendix I.4:   Computer Network for Engineering Libraries
Appendix 1.5:  Review Results
Appendix I. 1:  Program Structure for Different Disciplines
Appendix II.2:  Program Structure for the Ten Disciplines
Appendix 11.3:  Details of Enrollment and Graduates
Appendix II.4:  List of Workshops and Labs
Appendix III. 1: Project Background Information
Appendix 11I.2: Financial Records
Appendix 111.3: Procurement Records
4



Part I
ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (EEDP)
Achievements and Lessons Learned
Program Objectives
The EEDP program generally aimed at supporting the upgrading, strengthening, and re-design of programs in
existing university faculties of engineering in Egypt to improve the quality and occupational relevance of
engineering education and the job prospects of graduates. Ultimately, these improvements would benefit the
productive sectors in which graduate engineers are employed. The program objectives - and, in turn, its
activities- fall into two main groups: the first group focuses on plans of education development in individual
faculties; the second group addresses issues of comprehensive nature that benefits all faculties of engineering
by serving the interests of engineering education in Egypt at large.
1-     Individual Plans for Education Development
This was considered to be the main undertaking of the Engineering Education Development Program in which
educational programs at the eighteen Egyptian faculties of engineering were funded. Those programs included
the upgrading of academic curricula, human resources (teaching and support staff), and laboratory and
instruction programs and tools, as well as establishing and maintaining strong linkages with industry to give
existing programs a more applied engineering orientation consistent with the current and evolving needs of
industry. The participation of the different engineering faculties was allowed through a competitive proposal
process involving open review and assessment with peer-review involvement.
This part of the EEDP program was implemented repeatedly in cycles.   At the beginning of each cycle
proposals were submnitted and subsequently subjected to thorough refereeing where some proposals were
approved for funding. The implementation of approved proposals cormmenced immediately thereafter by
initiating the process of curriculum development, the preparation or refurbishing of the site of newly approved
equipment, the design of staff training programs, and the preparation of tender documents and other
procurement procedures.
This fundamental portion of the Engineering Education Development Program was supported for its
implementation by a number of sub-programs, studies and operations which all ensured that the
implementation process was efficient, objective and professional.  Appendix (1-1) summarizes - in a
flow chart depiction - the interrelations among those different components.
2-     Comprehensive Development Activities
The EEDP program management aimed to execute a number of additional programs to ensure the
accomplishment of the project's global goals, optimally and cost effectively.  Those programs were
implemented on central - i.e. national - basis. Experts from nearly all faculties of engineering participated in
those efforts. This group of activities included: model curricular development for basic and engineering
sciences, introducing and applying principles of quality assurance, establishing a data bank of engineering
education in Egypt, develop multi-media-based course-ware, and the founding of a system for library
automation and interconnection.
B.     Achievement of Program Objectives
1-     Implementation of Education Development Plans
Over a period of nearly seven years the EEDP funded, closely monitored, and assessed the implementation of
one hundred and fifty nine proposed plans for education development in eighteen faculties of engineering.
Statistics about those plans are given in Appendix (1-2). Each individual proposed plan involved some of the
following elements:
5



1.  development of engineering curricula and engineering education technology;
2.  procurement and commissioning of laboratory equipment;
3.  supply of instructional materials, including textbooks and library resources;
4.  academic fellowships and study visits;
5.  consultants and visiting professors and specialists as required for the in-country development of staff,
curriculum and materials; and
6.  support for applied research in educational technology and methodology
The eligibility of a proposed plan for funding by EEDP was judged on the basis of the following criteria:
1.  Evidence of infrastructure refurbishing;
2.  Commitment to equipment maintenance;
3.  Prioritizing academic needs;
4.  Linkage to relevant industry;
5.  Expression of institutional needs;
6.  Commitment of necessary human resources;
7.  Academic reform and curriculum development; and
8.  Commitment to share experience and facilities with others.
Engineering Education Program Group
An Engineering Education Program Group (EEPG) was formed by the Minister of Higher Education which
included the program director as chairman and representatives from faculties of engineering, the Ministry of
Higher Education, the industry and the Supreme Council of Universities. The EEPG acted as a technical body
responsible for the development of procedures for the management of the proposed education development
plans and for their actual evaluation and supervision.
Proposal Preparation Assistance Service (PPAS)
The PPAS activity is a mechanism provided by the EEDP to assist individual faculties of engineering to
prepare program proposals. Such assistance included the provision of expert and technical services, library
resource material, material on engineering education, office facilities, ... etc. Appendix (I-3) summarizes the
turn out of this program.
Proposal Implementation Monitoring and Assistance
The EEDP management set up Proposal Implementation Monitoring Committees (PIMC) to ensure that the
proposed programs are executed properly and in accordance with pre-approved time schedules. The PIMC
committees reported to the EEDP director on the progress of successful education development programs with
special emphasis on such vital aspects as: site preparation and infrastructure refurbishing, equipment
installation, commissioning, and utilization, curriculum development and the preparation of renovated
courseware material.
Also a Proposal Implementation Assistance Service (PIAS) program was introduced whereby smaller faculties
of engineering could be assisted in implementing their proposed education development programs. The PIAS
primarily provided the expert service necessary for this purpose. One or more experienced professors from
leading institutions were assigned by the EEDP management to undertake the task of assisting the institution in
question by performing the following tasks:
supervising the preparation of site and the development of associated infrastructure, inspecting the new
equipment, subject them to acceptance testing and supervise their installation, helping in curriculum
development and in the preparation of the necessary instruction materials and courseware, making appropriate
recommendations for future curriculum development and propose methods of diffusing and sharing experience
with other institutions.
2-Centrally Implemented Activities
As mentioned above the EEDP program management addressed and executed a number of additional
comprehensive programs which complemented the development plans in individual faculties. Those programs
were implemented on central - i.e., national- basis. Related achievements are summarized below:
6



(1) Basic & Engineering Sciences Curricula Development
The physical sciences and basic engineering sciences received special attention by the EEDP. Ten subjects
were identified: Computer Fundamentals, Mathematics, Physics, Engineering Chemistry, Basic Electronics,
Basic Electrical Engineering, Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics, Materials Engineering, Workshops. Teams
of experts executed the following tasks: reviewing and examining the present state of educational facilities in
those areas in all institutions, angd noting the present curricula, instructional materials, laboratories, and their
conditions, and teaching and technical support staff, developing what may be regarded as model programs in
those areas; assessing the educational deficiency in each institution and the consequent cost of rehabilitating
the present programs and facilities.
(2) Consolidating Cooperation between Universities and Industry
Realizing that cooperation between universities and industry creates a marriage of both theoretical study and
practical skills in a coordinated manner, the EEDP management prompted andlor enhanced the following
activities:
*   Industry was involved in EEDP Policy making by having representatives from industry sit on the
EEPG committee.
*   Industrial links were set as one of the criteria for funding.
*   Curriculum development was founded on actual industrial needs.
*   Developed criteria of quality assurance clearly accounted for industrial links.
*   Equipment for teaching and research were exchanged between industry and universities.
Computer-based programs were developed at the universities for industrial use.
University testing facilities were used to serve specific industrial needs.
(3) Quality Assurance of Engineering Education
The EEDP examined the issue of education quality evaluation in more depth and launched a study, which
aimed at the establishment of an independent evaluation and accreditation body for engineering education. A
study team prepared a draft proposal for a national accreditation body.
The proposed evaluation mechanism was applied on sample programs in selected institutions. The results
indicated that the exercise made reasonable success, which was manifested by:
*   Increasing appreciation and understanding by institutions for the evaluation principles, necessity, and
outcome of quality assurance.
*   Compliance of institutions with the requirements of the reviewing committees by preparing all
necessary material.
*   Readiness and ability of the reviewing conmmittees to apply the regulations and procedures stipulated in
the evaluation document.
*   Ability of the acquired material and associated reports to reflect clearly and professionally the
academic standing of the institution under review.
(4) Development of Multi-Media Instructional Materials
The EEDP supported the efforts made by groups of professors to develop multi-media materials for
engineering students. The most complete pilot project involved the development of multimedia educational
support aids for teaching Fluid Mechanics and Aerodynamics subjects at Cairo University. The efforts focused
on utilizing latest technologies in multimedia area and the experience gained by the Aero-group in recent years
in the design and use of computational and graphical presentation techniques as teaching aids and/or support.
The task group developed an interactive multimedia-based prototype educational courseware covering topics
of fluid mechanics-field theory, possibly usable by other fields (elasticity, electromagnetics, hydraulics, ...
etc.). The developed product is usable by individual students for education/training support and by instructors
as teaching/lecture support aid.
The effort incorporated sets of cascaded solvers varying in levels of approximation starting from simple closed
form solutions to use of discrete, generalized coordinates, adaptive solvers to model physical flow problems.
The simple solvers help enhancing the understanding of the physical phenomena. The more sophisticated
solvers help to understand, simulate and estimate more realistic field problems such as: air loading on
buildings, site aerodynamics in environmental studies, ventilation and reservoir-simulation ... etc.
7



Also, the model utilized comprehensive data visualization to enhance learning capabilities and faster
comprehension of the difficult physical flow problems, where charting, vector maps, line and flooded
contouring, and animated simulations can be extensively used. Furthermore, other multimedia capabilities
were used such as stills and video clips to provide alternatives to site seeing, and expensive laboratory
experiments, and were supported by carefully planned narration and sound effects.
(5) Introducing Engineering Library Automation
The EEDP executed a plan to automate engineering libraries in eighteen colleges of engineering across the
country, and their interconnection via a nation-wide computer network. The automated library system of
Egyptian engineering faculties comprises two main components: the Library Automation Software and the
Computer Network for Engineering Libraries:
The Library Automation Software (LAS) allows the execution of standard library functions required in an
academic library, both in Arabic and in English. In so doing, the software conforms to existing standards and
provides user-friendly interfaces. In addition, the required software allows the exchange of records with the
standard-compliant library automation software. It also provides access to its information via the INTERNET.
The Computer Network for Engineering Libraries (CNEL) provides access to the database of the library
collection in different Engineering Faculties. It provides access to the INTERNET from any node in the
network. Additional capability is the provision of an integrated management system that enables the system
administrator to carry out various configurations, perfornance, fault, and security management. The ability to
support multimedia CD-ROMs and provide video conferencing is also gained.
Appendix (I-4) offers a more detailed account of the engineering library automation project.
Summary of EEDP Achievements
The achievements attained through the implementation of EEDP were acknowledged by both the Egyptian
government and by the faculties of engineering. From a bird's eye view those achievements may be
summarized as follows:
1- The implementation of one-hundred and fiftv nine proposed plans for eneineerinz education
development:
The plans covered all faculties of engineering and involved all engineering disciplines.  According to
Appendix (I-5), 97% the funded plans were designated as being successful.
2- Human resources development
A large number of engineering faculty members was involved in the various activities of the program. Nearly
15% of all engineering faculty members in Egypt were in one way or another involved in EEDP activities,
including preparation of proposals, refereeing of submitted proposals, preparing specifications for educational
materials, equipment, and laboratories, and curricular development. Other means of human development
included: study tours inside and outside the country, training courses, and workshops and seminars.
3- Model curricular development in basic and enaineerina sciences
Basic and engineering sciences included; Computer Fundamentals, Mathematics, Physics, Engineering
Chemistry, Basic Electronics, Basic Electrical Engineering, Thermodynamics, Fluid Mechanics, Materials
Engineering, and Workshops. Model curricula were prepared and the academic and material requirements for
their implementation were identified.
8



4- Linkin2 academia to industry
Activities in this area were manifested by: industry involvement in EEDP policy making, setting industrial
links as criterion for funding, curriculum development based on industrial needs, program quality assessment
based on industrial link, the exchange of equipment between industry and engineering faculties.
5- Modern instructional tools development
Pilot interactive multimedia-based prototype educational courseware covering a range of topics was developed.
6- Introducine principles of quality assurance in education
Draft documents for quality assessment and for the establishment of a national accreditation body were issued.
Proposed procedures were exercised on sample programs in selected institutions.
7- Library automation and intra-networKin.
Opening new horizons to engineering education in Egypt by converting education from a traditional form into
a modern forn, which keeps abreast with future global developments.
8- Establishing a comprehensive en0ineerin2 education data base
Project's Critical Review
As the EEDP approached its completion date by the end of 1998, review committees were formed by the
EEDP Director to launch a comprehensive evaluative campaign. Five committees in charge of five distinct
groups of engineering disciplines were formed each headed by a coordinator. The aim was to assess the level
of success which the EEDP reached and underline the obstacles and impediments which hindered its
implementation. The emphasis was put on the first group of EEDP objectives, namely; the fulfillment of
education development plans of individual faculties totaling one hundred and fifty nine plans.
Over a period of nearly five months, the evaluation committees reviewed the complete file of each plan,
consulted the corresponding monitoring reports, examined the procurement records, and paid visits to the site
to seek the response of faculty members in charge of the plan. The impact of the implementation of each
development plan on the associated educational process was in-turn, carefully assessed. One hundred and fifty
nine review reports were prepared by committee members, which were first examined by the committee
coordinators. The findings were then sorted, tabulated and analyzed under the supervision of the EEDP
director.
Appendix (1-5) lists the main statistics extracted from the review reports.
Obstacles and Impediments:
Based on the review reports, this section summarizes the issues and events, which typically hindered the
execution of the EEDP activities. The issues are categorized according to the source of impediment.  Within
each category, the issues are listed in order of frequency of occurrence, the first being the most commonly
encountered.
(1) Impeding issues related to Procurement Procedures
*   Database was not always up-to-date both in specifications and prices.
*   Due to practical constraints the manager of a proposed development plan was not necessarily a
member of the bid evaluation committee, which meant that decisions relating to his plan were made in
his absence.
9



*   Purchasing equipment by "schedule" meant that the components of one facility were independently
purchased which sometimes caused problems of incompatibility.
*   Penalties permitted by regulations against suppliers seemed sometimes insufficient to ensure the
suppliers' cooperation.
*   Local regulations and laws created significant paper work and caused delays.
(2) Impeding issues related to the Beneficiary Faculties
*   Lack of continuity: Some faculty members assigned to prepare, and later supervise the implementation
of, development proposals received temporary assignments elsewhere in country and abroad.
*   Originally selected site - within the institution - was sometimes altered causing delays.
*   Unpredicted increases in the numbers of students made it sometimes difficult to execute instructional
procedures as originally planned.
* Incomplete infrastructure caused difficulty in accommnodating and operating new facilities.
*   Unfulfilled commitment by some faculty to appoint qualified manpower.
*   Inefficient cooperation with some of the monitoring teams.
*   Using procured equipment for purposes different from those originally approved, e.g. research,
graduate studies, and consultation work.
*   Some progTarns were run by a one-man team, which adversely reflected on performance.
(3) Impeding issues related to Suppliers
* Poor after-sale service and technical support.
*   Supplied items sometimes lacked essential parts and accessories.
*   Unjustified delays in responding to the requests of faculty members.
v   Missing manuals and other illustrative materials, and sometimes are supplied in a language different
than requested (English).
a   Supplying items of different origins causing incompatibility in operation.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations for a Similar Future Program
The contents of this section are based on the experience gained by the EEDP management in seven years and
also by the opinions and recommendations of the project's monitoring and review committees. The following
recommendations are offered to eliminate many of the difficulties, which faced the implementation of the
EEDP sub-programs outlined above and detailed in Appendix (1-5).
With regards to procurement procedures
1.  Reliable up-to-date database must be made available to the PIU and should be continuously updated.
2. To ensure that price estimates are realistic proposals should be supported by valid - or recent - offers
from suppliers.
3. A representative of proposal writers should sit on the bid evaluation committee.
4. To ensure a minimum of compatibility among the items of one facility procurement is better performed
on "collective" basis rather than by "schedule".
5.  The policy of allowing suppliers to receive 90% of their funds up-front (i.e. upon shipment) needs to
be revised.
6. A mechanism whereby equipment is automatically updated during the procurement process is worth
seeking, particularly when computers and their peripherals are concemed.
With regards to suppliers
1. Suppliers may be obliged to hold training sessions for institutions' technical staff.
2. Suppliers should be checked thoroughly for technical support and service capabilities; certificates may
be issued for that purpose which would then be an integral part of their credentials.
3. An agreement for the maintenance, service, and technical support of equipment may be necessary
between the suppliers and the institutions.
10



Part II
Technical Teacher Education Development Program (TTEDP)
Introduction
The Technical Teacher Education Development Program (TTEDP) aimns at reforming the technical education
system through the implementation of a new strategy. This is achieved through the re-definition of the role of
technical education on the basis of a realistic assessment of present and future market needs and the
improvement of technical education quality by providing better qualified teachers. Curricula reforming and
laboratory upgrading in existing schools and institutes are the main basis on which the program is supported.
1. Program Obiectives
The Technical Teacher Education Development Program (TTEDP) is intended to initiate a long-term reform of
the technical education system in Egypt. The first step in this process is the establishment of an appropriate
institutional framework for the development of a new type of technical teacher education program. The main
objectives of this program are the following:
1.   Integrating theory and practical teaching, merging the roles of the existing instructors and
teachers with instructional competence in both theory and practice,
2.   Improving teaching methods in technical education,
3.   Improving curriculum development methodology and procedures,
4.   Developing and producing high quality instructional materials to support teacher training and
teaching of technical subjects,
5.   Increasing the supply of technical teachers to meet the needs of technical education on a
continuing basis,
6.   Improving the overall management of the technical education system.
2. Achievement of Pro2ram Obiectives
Implementation of the program objectives involves a series of interrelated policy measures requiring careful
programming and phasing. The following steps have been achieved to attain the required reform program:
I.    Review
A statistical study about the technical teachers local market needs according to the industrial
development program in Egypt has been carried out. Following this first statistical study, a review
about the technical secondary schools' curricula has been carried out in conjunction with the Ministry of
Education. Two colleges have been established in Kubba, Cairo and in Beni-Suef, they would be
responsible for both pre-service and in-service teacher training to fulfill the needs of the Ministry of
Education three and five years technical schools. A technical Teacher Training plan linking the IEC
curricula with the demands for technical teachers in several areas of specialization, has been prepared
according to the required graduate profile.
II.   IEC Graduate Profile
The program structure for ten different disciplines offered by the two IECs has been prepared based on
new curriculum. The IEC graduate should be acquainted with the requisite knowledge and skills in both
subject specialty and pedagogy. The graduate profile is deternined taking into consideration the
required principle job of the graduate. The program structure for the different disciplines is given in
Appendix II-1.
IECs Program Design Committee
According to both, the existing education level in secondary industrial schools and the required graduate
profile, the IECs program and curriculum design committee has established some criteria for the
program structure. The IECs curriculum design committee has also established the required common
courses which are designed to serve students in all disciplines These courses are scheduled in the first
three semesters in order to guarantee a uniform level of knowledge for the different students intakes.
The newly developed program structure has been discussed with foreign professional experts from
Canada and USA.
11



Disciplines Curriculum Design Committees
The IECs curriculum design committees have been formed in different specialization's from selected
faculty members from Egyptian universities, institutions and industry to prepare the program technical
courses. Nine committees have been formed in all disciplines except Textile technology. These
specialized conumittees designed the courses to contain the following:
-     Course contents related items
-     Course instructional support items
-     Course practical related items
-     Course teaching requirements
The IECs program design committee has previously defined the required contents of the common
courses, which will serve all students according to the aimed graduate profile.
More than sixty-five experts from universities and industry were involved in the design of ten programs
containing one hundred and eighty courses. The program structures for the ten disciplines are given in
Appendix II-2.
Foreign Technical Assistance
In order to evaluate the developed programs and curricula, the program management has, after
consultation with World Bank experts in Canada, USA and the UK, made a short list of institutions that
have the capacity and experience to offer technical assistance in the evaluation process. In order to
unify the evaluation of proposals, a point system has been established by the program management as
criteria for the proper judgment and selection of the received proposals from the institutions.
The selection committee has finalized the evaluation of the different proposals and decision has been
made to select the offer of Bolton Institute for Higher Education (BIHE), presented through the British
Council in Cairo. The decision was made based on the following:
1.    The BIHE has a previous experience and knowledge of the technical education system in Egypt.
2.    The existence of the British Council in Cairo as a joint contractor will facilitate the
communications and will make the British Council formally responsible to the program
management for the fulfillment of the required evaluation job.
3.    Having the lowest financial offer.
Cairo Workshop
In the period 12-14 July 1994, the program management has organized a workshop. The objective of the
workshop was to permit a mutually creative discussion between the BIHE evaluation team and the local
experts by whom the program structure and curricula have been designed and developed. Three
specialized sessions in the three main disciplines (Electrical, Mechanical and Civil) have been formed to
discuss the technical remarks and comments made by the BIHE evaluation team of experts. The
contents of courses in each discipline were then finalized between the local experts and the BIHE
evaluation team after extensive discussions and mutual agreement.
III. Staff Training
During implementation, the originally planned overseas fellowships program has been changed from
training fellowships to fellowships to obtain M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in Technical Education.
According to the law No. 49-year 1963 governing higher education in Egypt, full-time faculty members
to be appointed in colleges and higher institutes must be holders of a Ph.D. degree.
Initially, extensive efforts have been made to establish a new law for the IECs different from the
existing law governing Higher Education in Egypt. The proposed law does not necessitate faculty
members to be Ph.D. holders, since practical experience is highly needed in this kind of education. The
new proposed Law has been processed by all concerned authorities at the MOHE, and was then sent to
the State Council for approval. The Council did not comply to the MOHE request, for possible conflict
with the constitution. The Council suggested changing the law governing the Technical Education in
general instead of making a new law for the two IECs colleges. Accordingly, it was necessary to qualify
the IECs staff members according to the existing law No. 49-year 1963. This exercise has delayed the
beginning of the staff training for about two years.
12



The program management has advertised at the beginning of the year 1995 for assistant lecturer
positions. Thirty engineers from the top of the graduates of engineering colleges with minimum two
years practical experience have been selected after being interviewed and were employed as assistant
lecturers. Arrangements were then made for their immediate enrollment at the Technical University of
Eindhoven (TUE), the Netherlands for 24 months to obtain M.Sc. degrees in Technical Education.
Selection of TUE has been through international competition. A short list of six institutes from USA,
Canada and Europe has been made and was approved by the World Bank. Request for proposals for
offering a program in Master of Science in Technical Education has been sent to the six institutes.
Terms of reference and evaluation criteria prepared by a committee formed from the two deans of the
IECs, two experts in technical education and the program director have been forwarded to the six
institutes. The evaluation criteria did include the following:
1.  Institute background and previous experience.
2.  Structure of the offered M.Sc. program in Technical Education.
3.  Financial terms.
The selection committee selected the proposal of the TUE and PTH Association because it was the best
technical proposal and the lowest financial offer.
-   Actually, 22 assistants (one out of the 22 was employed by IEC Kubba before the program started)
have completed their studies and came back and got their official M.Sc. in January 1997. The
other 9 are still working in Eindhoven towards their M.Sc. degree expected to be finalized by July
1999.
-   In addition, 6 assistants have been sent to university of Northombria and Huddersfield university in
the UK to obtain their Ph.D. degrees in different technical disciplines, and a Diploma in Education.
These two universities have been selected as the best institutions in the UK to offer Ph.D. degrees
in the required disciplines. The selection was made after a study tour was organized by the British
Council in October 1997 for the program Director and the Dean of the IEC in Beni-Suef to visit six
UJK universities, which were originally polytechnic institutes.
IV.  Pre-Service Training Program
The pre-service training program is intended for the entrants from the graduates of three- and five-year
technical schools. The main source of entrants would be from the five-year schools and the students
would follow a three-year course. The graduate students from three years schools are enrolled in the
first year of the IECs. However, the graduate students from five years schools are enrolled in the second
year of the IECs. Tables I and 2 show the targeted enrollment and achieved numbers in Kubba and
Beni-Suef respectively. The details of the achieved enrollment and graduates by specialization for both
IECs are given in Appendix II-3.
Table 1: Targeted and Achieved Enrollment in IEC Kubba
Academic      3-Years Industrial         5-Years Industrial         Total         Total
Year        Secondary Schools          Secondar Schools         Targeted      Achieved
Targeted    Achieved      Targeted     Achieved
91/92        74           68           157          128            231           196
92/93        240         141           60           193            300           334
93/94        240         131           60           278            300           409
94/95       240          168           60           287            300           447
95/96        240         228           60           386            300           614
96/97       240          219           60           439            300           658
97/98       240          275           60           513            300           788
13



Table 2: Targeted and Achieved Enrollment in IEC Beni-Suef
Academic       3-Years Industrial         5-Years Industrial        Total         Total
Year         Secondary Schools         Secondar Schools         Targeted      Achieved
Targeted     Achieved     Targeted     Achieved
93/94        200           73           50            -           250            73
94/95        200          240           50           177          250           417*
95/96        200           129          50            77          250            206
96/97        200           182          50           54           250            236
97/98        200           173          50           78           250            251
98/99        200           186          50           129          250            315
* The achieved number of students has suddenly increased in 1994/1995 academic year due to the college
good reputation after one year of operation. However, in the year 95/96 the college had requested the
MOHE to reduce the number of students accepted for enrollment according to the planned capacity.
In-Service Training Program
According to the Program Action Plan two in-service training programs supposed to be offered. The
first program is for one year and offered to the theoretical teachers in Secondary Technical Schools.
This program consists of a didactical part and practical part. By the end of the program the teacher will
have a Diploma in Technical Education. The second program is for three years and offered to the
practical teachers in Secondary Technical Schools. The program period is three years, the teacher will
attend the program for three days a week and the other three days he works in his school. After the
completion of the program, the teacher will have a B.Sc. in Technical Education. The first program was
not appealing to the theoretical teachers (all have B.Sc. degree in Engineering) because they are very
busy in giving private lessons to the students and they think that the B.Sc. degree in Engineering is quite
enough. On the other hand the second program has attracted a huge number of practical teachers
because they have only Diploma from five years secondary schools and every one wants to have a B.Sc.
degree to have a better salary scale, and as a social requirement.
The second in-service training program was offered at IEC Kubba for the existing practical teachers in
technical secondary schools starting from year 93/94. There was not enough staff members at IEC Beni-
Suef to offer the same program. The enrollment statistics for the in-service training program in Kubba
IEC is given in Table 3 by specialization.
Table 3: Enrollment for in-service plan at IEC Kubba
Year      Production      A/C       Automotive    Electrical    Electronics     Total
93/94         32           13           15             22            13          100
94/95         26           16            8             20             8           78
95/96         10           14           11             16            12           63
96/97         16           13           12             23            20           84
V.   Refurbishing
Refurbishing the buildings in IECs Kubba and Beni-Suef has been carried out. In IEC Kubba, three old
buildings have been refurbished including the administration building. A new, four stories building was
established to include workshops, laboratories and auditoriums. The fourth floor was built as an open
area and was later partitioned to accommodate a Teachers Training and Development Center (TTDC).
In IEC Beni-Suef the main education and administration building which was built initially to
accommodate a commercial institute has been refurbished. Also, the fifteen years old unused workshops
building was refurbished and totally renovated according to the new concept that the students take the
practical related classes in the workshops. A new three stories building for the health care unit and
accountants unit has also been established. The third floor was deto be an open area and was later
partitioned to accommodate the 1TDC.
14



VI.  Laboratories and Workshops
In order to ensure the required quality of teaching the IECs were equipped with different laboratories to
serve the different courses in the different disciplines. A list of laboratories and workshops according to
specialization is given in Appendix II-4.
VII.  Teacher Training and Development Centers (TTDC)
For the sustainability of the IECs teachers level, two Teachers Training and Development Centers
(TTDCs) have been established. The TTDC mission is to develop highly qualified technical teachers, as
well as to provide them with information needed in the ongoing of education. The TTDC objectives are:
-     To develop an appropriate system of selection of student teachers.
-     To maintain and develop better educational service.
-     To sustain top standards and best quality of teaching process.
-     To do needs assessment, objectives setting, programs design, implementation and evaluation
procedures.
-     To function as a nucleus for training of the fellow teachers of the college.
-     To provide refresh training on inset basis and regular updated information to teaching body.
-     To offer training programs to staff members in Middle Technical Institutes.
-     To offer the know-how to other colleges in the field.
-     To establish and maintain contact with other institutes.
The TTDC in every college comprises the latest technology in the fields of information systems,
education facilities, studios, computer based training, video conferencing, multimedia, ... etc. Both
TTDCs are equipped with the following labs:
-     Computer Labs
-     Simulation and Internet Lab
-     CAD/CAM Lab
-     Audio/Video Production Lab
-     Micro teaching Lab
-     Video Conferencing Lab
3.   Program  Sustainability
To maintain the 'ITEDP program sustainability two TTDCs were established in the two IECs to offer
training programs to the IECs faculty members in the area of curriculum development, institution
administration, evaluation and assessment, ... etc. Ministry of planning allocated a budget for the two
IECs within the MOHE fifth plan (1997/2002) budget. Also, the missions department with MOHE
allocated in the mission's fifth plan two missions abroad and another two missions in Egypt every year
for the assistant lecturers in the two IECs to obtain a Ph.D. degree in different disciplines.
4.   Future Operation
It was aimed to establish the two IECs as centers of excellence and to maximize the benefits from the
World Bank project.  As indicator of success of the TTEDP program, another two IECs were
established, one with Suez Canal university in the city of Suez and the other with South Valley
university in Qenna. Both colleges have used the curricula developed for the two IECs in Kubba and
Beni-Suef. The program management was sharing committees for faculty member's recruitment in IEC
in Suez. Five applications have been submitted to MOHE to establish other IECs in Sohag, Zagazig,
Manzala, Kanater Elkhairia, and Domiat. MOHE did not take any action in these applications because
of lack of funds. A ministerial decree was issued in October 18, 1998 to establish a sector committee
for IECs under the umbrella of the Supreme Council of Universities. The comrnmittee will look at the
approval of the IECs internal regulations. Currently, the MOHE is working on a new project financed
by the World Bank and Donor Countries for the development of university education and higher
education in Egypt. A national committee has been formed by a ministerial decree in October 31, 1998
to look at politics, strategies and objectives of higher education in Egypt.
15



5.  Problems Encountered
a.    Establishment of Buildings
Delay in the civil construction work resulted in delays in refurbishing the buildings in the two IECs.
Reasons for this delay are:
- Lack of experience of the engineers working in the department responsible for the supervision of the
civil and architecture work in the MOHE. They neither take decisions nor are willing to solve
technical problems.
- Lengthy procedures in finalizing the contracts and in the financial payment to the contractors
resulted in delaying the construction of the textile building in IEC Beni-Suef.
* To overcome such a problem, it is recommended to contract a specialized consultant to supervise
the civil work.
b.   Installation of Equipment in Workshops and Labs
During the installation of the equipment in the workshops and labs, the following difficulties were
encountered:
- Many suppliers have no experienced technicians in Egypt who can take care of the installations of
the supplied equipment and operate them.
- Delays in releasing equipment from customs, and sometimes carelessness in the transportation of
shipment to the colleges resulted in some damages and loss of small items.
- The short time between the erection of the equipment in place and commissioning them in the
education process made it very difficult to order some urgent supplementary spare parts and
accessory tools to complete the labs.
* To overcome such difficulties, it is recommended that every contract with suppliers must include
installation, testing and turn over of the supplied equipment by the main supplier.
C.    Recruiting of Technicians and the Administrative Staff
- There are very few technicians working in the two colleges. This was a very crucial issue and
MOHE personnel department have not been supportive in fulfilling the needs of both IECs because
of limited job resources and low wages.
- Shortage in the administrative staff of crucial professions such as store keepers and clerks working
in the students affairs departments, as well as workers for cleaning and guards, put heavy burden on
both IECs to inspect the equipment and finalize delivery procedures.
* It is clear that the payment scale offered by MOHE for trained technicians is not adequate to attract
qualified technicians. It is recommended that a different payment scale for qualified technicians be
adopted through annual contracts away from government salary scales.
d.    Local Funds Allocation
- Ministry of planning delays the allocation of the local funds for more than four months every fiscal
year and it is not allowed to make any disbursement from these funds one month before the end of
the fiscal year. That is to say the actual implementation is about seven months a year.
e.    Students Background
- The students from secondary industrial schools enrolled in IECs have a weak background in basic
science subjects as mathematics, physics and chemistry.
* Short courses in basic science subjects should be offered to secondary industrial schools students
enrolled in IECs during August and September before the beginning of the first semester.
f.    Teaching Language
- The medium of instruction in IECs is the English language. This is one of the major obstacles
because all students enrolled have very weak English language.
* The English language courses contents offered by IECs should be reviewed and the teachers of the
courses should be selected carefully with good teaching experience.
16



g.    Employment of Graduates
- The IECs were established to supply Ministry of Education with integrated teachers in different
disciplines for the secondary industrial schools. The students enrolled in the colleges had to sign an
agreement stating that he is committed to work as a teacher in secondary industrial schools for seven
years after graduation. Last year Ministry of Education has advertised for 50 thousands teacher
position. The advertisement was opened for any graduate from any college (e.g., Engineering,
Commerce, Arts, .. .etc.) and not only restricted to graduates from colleges of education and IECs as
used to be, which is considered as change in Ministry of Education politics.
* Ministry of education should retain the system used to higher teachers in secondary schools. Also, a
one-year diploma in industrial training is going to be offered by IECs for graduates want to work as
trainers of the trainers in industry.
17



Part III
Implementing Agency:
Projects Implementation Unit (PIU)
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE)
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (ETE)
IBRD LOAN No. 3137-EGT
PIU EXPERIENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.     This part of the report will focus on financial and procurement aspects of ETEP and its two program
components EEDP and TTEDP. The PIU accumulated experience, the problems encountered and how they
were resolved, the lessons learned, and suggestions for future considerations to improve implementation
performance, will also be the subject of this part of the report. Although some of the common problems are
addressed in each of the three parts, it is useful, however, to see them from the point of view of each of the
three Management Team. Tables and charts are included in appendices.
Project Background Information
2.     On December 8, 1991, a Ministerial decree was issued to appoint a new Management Team, a PIU
Director and two project components Directors for EEDP and TTEDP. The team met with World Bank
Supervision Mission to Establish a detailed five years plan based on the SAR. A Ministerial decree was issued
on February 22, 1992 to establish the PIU. Although preparation for the implementation of project activities
started immediately after the management team has been appointed, the establishment of the PIU started in mid
July 1992, when the first transfer to the Special Account was made by the World Bank. Salaries of all the
appointed full-time staff, as well as the management team, were delayed for over six months after the local
funds were approved by the Ministry of Planning (MOP) on May, 1992. The PIU had to request approval from
the World Bank to temporarily pay salaries of the PIU staff from loan proceeds until all the necessary approvals
to pay them from local funds were granted. It took another six months for this issue to be resolved, i.e. about a
year from project startup. This issue of salaries and startup costs could have easily been resolved if initial
funds in the form grants were made available up front, complementary to the loan funds, to enable the PIU
make a proper startup of project activities.
3.     Appendix III-I contains collective background information about the project. Basic financial data
about loan amount, contingency funds available, limits set for local shopping (three offers basis), and the
amounts disbursed within this limit, are included. Govermnent contribution funds according to the loan
proceeds, the additional government funds that were requested and approved during the course of project
implementation, as well as the undisbursed amounts from both the loan and the local funds, are also included.
All dates representing milestones in project implementation were also included to give all the necessary
background information about the project at a glance.
4.     The project was extended three times for the many delays encountered, the first of which is delay in
the startup and transfer of funds. Other delays for diverse reasons will be realized when reading through the
borrower's report. The last closing date of the project was December 31, 1998. The P1U was granted a four
months allowance period after the closing date to finalize all pending payments and transactions that were due
before the last closing date in accordance with World Bank regulations. The last contract
18



Financial Records
5.      Appendix III-2 includes charts and tables that demonstrate all financial records kept at the PIU for
various project disbursement activities classified in three main categories of expenditure, namely; Goods,
Expert Services and Training Activities. The first Chart No. III-2.1 illustrates the original budget included in
the loan agreement, for each project component, and for the total budget as a whole. Unallocated funds are also
demonstrated and were split among the two project components on equitable basis, in the ratio of their
originally allocated budgets (a ratio of 3:2 between EEDP and TTEDP). Three budget amendments were made
during the implementation of all Project activities. Changes were introduced to meet the needs in different
categories of funding. In the third and final budget amendment, 89% of the total project funds, including
contingencies, were allocated to Goods as compared to 70% allocated in the original budget. About 3% of the
total budget were allocated for Experts Services as compared to 9% in the original budget, and the remaining
8% were allocated to training activities as compared to 11% in the original budget. It can be concluded that
funds allocated for Goods were maximized to fulfill the needs of the faculties and IECs, and those allocated for
Expert Services were minimized, although many peer experts were hired.
6.      The following chart No. 111-2.2 gives the cumulative disbursement under the loan agreement,
indicating total expenditures on yearly basis. The two dotted curves are replicas of the original profile for
annual disbursement as estimated in the original loan agreement, the start of each curve is shifted by one year
to give an indication of how the actual curve is closer to the dotted one. This shift reflects the delay in startup
as indicated above, and also indicates slow disbursement at the startup as well. Also, the original curve is flat
towards the end, indicating that majority of expenditure was estimated to be during the central period of
implementation. The actual curve, however, is much steeper towards the end than the originally estimated one
reflecting that a substantial amount of funds were disbursed towards the end of the project. This was for a
number of accumulated reasons that caused the delay in disbursement as indicated and discussed in all three
parts of the report.
7.      A similar approach was followed to present a comparison between the original and actual annual
disbursement curves as shown in Chart No. III-2.3. Notice that the actual disbursement Curve, is flatter during
the middle part of implementation than in the original one where a much higher peak is apparent. The reason
for the difference is that in the original plan, procurement for the TTEDP component was meant to take place in
three stages, the second stage being the largest one. In the actual implementation plan, however, procurement
was made on five stages (five international tenders). The reason for the larger number of procurement stages is
because some of the procurement activities had to be delayed under TTDEP until existing buildings at the two
IECs were refurbished and/or new ones were completed. Notice that the two curves would become similar to
each other (having a similar peak and distribution) if two consecutive years are added together in the actual
disbursement curve, in effect implying that two procurement cycles are combined together.
8.      A more accurate chart can be plotted from the quarterly disbursement record included in Table III-2.1
included in Appendix III-2. The table contains actual disbursement records on a quarterly and annual basis
classified into the three main categories of funding, namely Goods, Experts Services and Training Activities,
and their totals are included as well. Monthly disbursement statements are also available on PIU records.
9.      Table III-2.2 gives a summary of the final financial status of all procurement transactions at a glance.
The table includes, for each project component, detailed summary information on all procurement transactions
under each category of funding, with totals of each category and an overall total. The information contained in
the table is as follows: the total number of successful suppliers in all international tenders for each project
component, the corresponding number of L/Cs opened, and the preliminary total contract values for which the
"No Objection" from the World Bank was granted to the PIU. Also, the contracts are classified into two types,
those over 100,000 US$ paid directly by the World Bank through Special Commitment (S/C), and those under
100,000 US$ paid directly by the PIU from the special account (S/A). Final contracts' payments is also
included and classified under the same two types of contracts. Table 111-2.3 includes the breakdown of the
same information, for goods only, under each intemational tender for both components of the project. Detailed
breakdown of Table 111-2.3 on the level of individual contracts under each international tender, for each of the
two project components, is also available at the PIU. It can be seen that the final contracts' payment is lower
than the actual contracts commnitted. The reasons for this difference are clearly illustrated in the following
Table III-2.4.
19



10.    Detailed summary of deductions due to reductions in final contracts' values, cancellation of some or
part of the contracts, penalties on suppliers for late delivery and/or non compliance with specifications, and
difference due to currency exchange, are all included in Table III-2.4 and visually presented in Chart No. III-
2.4. Notice in this table that the allocated funds under the procurement of goods category were marginally
exceeded. The PIU had to cancel some of the contracts that the suppliers failed to confirm, in writing, that the
delivery date of the goods will be before the closing date of the project in December 31, 1998. Some other
contracts were reduced and penalties imposed on suppliers for many reasons such as; the supplier failure to
deliver the contracted equipment according to specifications, country of origin different than that quoted in the
offer and in several cases, reluctance of suppliers to deliver part of the contracted equipment. Difference in
currency exchange exceeded quarter of a million US$ as indicated in table III-2.4. In addition, the World Bank
Financial Officer in Washington returned to the PIU 19 out of 23 procurement transactions, worth over half a
million US$ for inconclusive documents presented by the PIU? It is important, however, to note that all
returned transactions were retention payments for Goods only, and not Services, that were contracted for,
shipped and delivered before the closing date of the project in December 31, 1999, which makes them eligible
for payrnent according to World Bank regulation! The aggregate amount of the above mentioned deductions
explain the reasons for the undisbursed amount in the procurement of goods category. Also, Chart III-2.4
clearly illustrates the reasons for the undisbursed amounts in each category of funding.
Action taken:   Eighteen out of the nineteen transactions returned to the PIU were then acceptedfor payment
after the Financial Officer from the World Bank recently came to Egypt, reviewed the documentation and had
copies of conclusive evidence that the eighteen transactions are eligibleforpayment. The only one transaction
declined, in the amount of the equivalent of eight thousand US$, was because it was components and
accessories of machines that were delivered earlier, but were not yet assembled before the closing date of the
project. At the time of writing this report,final payment of the above mentioned eighteen transactions was not
yet made, and therefore were not included in the statistical data. Final tables and statistics can be finalized
and made available only after payments are made, and currency exchange rates determined
PIU Expenditure
11.    The total amounts spent by the PIU from the loan proceeds over the lifetime of the project was slightly
less than 150,000 US$, and the equivalent of slightly over half a million US$ from the local government funds
allocated for the two project components. All PIU expenses were divided and charged among both project
components on equitable basis, in the ratio of their originally allocated budgets, i.e. 3:2. PIU expenditure from
the loan proceeds were devoted to administrative expenses such as stationary, computers and their peripherals,
... etc., whereas, local funds were mainly used to cover salaries of PIU administrative staff, as well as those of
the management team.
Disbursement from Local Funds
12.    The major portion of the local funds, were allocated for refurbishing and constructing new buildings
that are needed for the two IECs in Kubba and Beni-Suef (Educational buildings, laboratories, workshops,
training centers, ...etc. According to the loan agreement, the local budget was 26.8 ML.E, corresponding to 8.1
MUSS. This budget was increased twice to cover the needs of the TTEDP project component to construct new
buildings, and refurbish old ones that were already stipulated in the SAR, as well as other new buildings, the
need for which was identified later during implementation. The first increase was for 12.5 ML.E, equivalent to
3.8 MUSS, and the second one was for 7 ML.E, equivalent to approximately 2.2 MUSS. By the closing date of
the project, some of the local funds were still available, and their reallocation for the next fiscal year to cover
pending project activities was requested from Ministry of Planning (MOP). Table III-2.5 includes expenditures
made from the local funds, under each project component, classified in the main categories of funding, namely;
refurbishing, goods (to cover custom clearance, transportation costs, and other costs related to the procurement
of equipment), experts services, and training and research activities. It is clear that the total expenditure of the
project (loan and local funds in the amount of 40.7 MUSS) exceeded the targeted value of 38.6 MUSS,
although the distribution of disbursement between the loan and local funds differed for the reasons mentioned
earlier.
20



13.    Based on the recommendation of the World Bank expert's evaluation of the overall activities of the
two project components, four MUS$ were requested from MOP (currently under consideration) to cover a two
years program with the following objectives:
*   To complete the valuation of project's outcome and its impact on all the stakeholders;
*   To support a number of critical measures needed to ensure sustainability of project's achievements;
*   To complete the documentation of the best practices and lessons learned from EEDP, TTEDP and
PIU experiences, and use them as inputs to inform the design of the proposed new project of
reform in higher education; and
*   To provide a link to the new project by developing a series of monitoring, evaluation and
benchmarking instruments and testing them on institutions and programs supported by ETEP.
Procurement Records
14.    During the startup of project implementation, the PIU Director arranged, through the UNESCO office
in Cairo, a trip to visit the procurement department at the International Labor Organization (ILO) in Geneva,
who implemented several World Bank financed projects worldwide. The trip also included a visit to ILO's
Training Center in Turino, Italy, as well as to IAPSO, an organization in Denmark under the United Nations
responsible for procurement of goods for all other UNDP organizations. The purpose of the visit was to learn
about sound international practices in the procurement of equipment, and to identify a suitable computerized
procurement system that can be used by the PIU to implement all its procurement activities in accordance with
World Bank regulations and guidelines.
15.    The Computerized Procurement System (CPS) developed by ILO was selected and initially used by
the PIU to implement its procurement activities. The system was further developed by the PIU computer staff,
and it was totally changed (completely rewritten) to operate under windows environment using Access as a
database instead of Foxpro. A comprehensive equipment database, originally developed by ILO, was also used
to prepare the technical specifications of equipment in the diverse specialization under consideration. Price
estimates were included to give approximate estimates for budgetary reasons. The full bidding document was
completely developed using this computerized procurement system. Also, the system was further developed to
produce the complete Bid Evaluation Report as well.
16.    The CPS developed by the PIU was made available to all faculties of engineering participating in the
project, as well as for the two IECs in Kubba and Beni-Suef. Also, the PITJ informed the World Bank, in the
procurement round table meetings, of its willingness to install a copy of the complete system at the Resident
Mission in Cairo, and/or at any other PIU implementing other World Bank financed projects. The PIU
computer staff installed the complete system in one PIU implementing a World Bank project, and trained its
personnel until the system was fully operative and the procurement personnel were able to produce their first
Tender Document, and Bid Evaluation Report.
17.    Two of the PIU staff were sent one after the other to the ILO Training Center in Turino, to attend a
five weeks training course on procurement under World Bank regulations. This was a very valuable exercise
that enabled all the PrU staff to benefit from the experience gained by the two staff members that attended the
training course. The PIU personnel have also gained a considerable amount of accumulated experience in
implementing projects financed under World Bank guidelines and regulations. The procurement and financial
officers at the PIU were hired several times as part-time consultants to assist other PIUls in the start-up of their
financial and procurement records, as well as in the international tendering.
18.    The bidding document was prepared by the PIU based on the World Bank Procurement Guidelines
and Regulations manual, and was adapted to meet Egyptian needs, within international practice. It took several
iterations over a period of six months until the bidding document, was approved by World Bank procurement
experts. This was also one of the reasons for the delay in the startup of procurement activities, in addition to
delays in the transfer of funds.
21



19.    Twelve International tenders were executed by the PIU, as well as procurement through the Local
Shopping Mechanism (Direct Order by considering at least three offers) was also pursued by the PIU. Up to
2.6 MUSS were allowed by the World Bank under the Direct Order mechanism, the PIU bought about 2.0
MUS$ worth of equipment under this scheme. Contracts were concluded and L/Cs were opened for about 500
procurement operations. Table 111-3 .1 contains all the necessary administrative details and financial summary
of international tenders and Direct Order procurement under the loan agreement.  The table contains
information about various dates such as; date of invitation to bid, bid opening date, start and end of bid
evaluation. Dates for the "No Objection" authorization from the World Bank, dates for the Notification of
Awards to Suppliers, and the starting dates of L/C opening under each international tender, are also included.
Detailed records for every individual transaction under each international tender for each project component are
included in a separate document kept at the PIU. In addition, the number of suppliers participating in tenders,
as well as the number of successful bidders are also included in the table.
20.    Goods were procured from about twenty countries worldwide. The majority of equipment (over 90%)
was procured from well reputable countries. Chart No. III-3.1 indicates the size of investment in the
procurement of goods from the twenty countries supplying the equipment under the twelve international
tenders. Well over three hundred contracts, worth over 25 MUSS, were concluded for both components of the
project, as indicated in the chart. The following chart No. 111-3.2 includes the total value of contractual
agreements that were concluded with each successful bidder, for contracts over 100,000 US$, paid directly
through the World Bank via Special Conmnitment (S/C). Nearly 23 MUSS out of the 27.2 MUSS allocated for
procurement of goods (around 85%) were disbursed under the S/C scheme. The rest of contracts under
100,000 US$ were executed and paid directly by the PIU through the Special Account (S/A). Chart III-3.3 is
the same as Chart No. III-3.2, but for contracts below 100,000 US$ and above 25,000 US$, and Chart III-3.4
are for contracts under 25,000 US$. Detailed records for every contract made with each supplier are also
available at the PIU in a separate document.
LESSONS LEARNED
21.    The following is a brief account of the problems encountered by the PIU, the impediments that, in so
many cases, delayed implementation and the initiatives made by the PIU to resolve the majority of these issues.
Precautions and recommendations for the successful implementation of future projects with minimal delays are
also included, whenever feasible.
Financial Issues
22.    Delays in presenting Proforma Invoices by the Suppliers: In the tender document, a thirty days
allowance period is given to suppliers to present their Proforma Invoices after the date in which they receive
the Notification of Award from the PIU. In many cases delays were in excess of six months. One of the
reasons for the delay is the supplier's failure to present accurate and complete Proforma Invoice. Missing
information about the supplier's corresponding Bank, port of export, country of origin, wrong equipment,
...etc. are among the reasons for the delay. In so many cases it took several iterations between the PIU and the
supplier until he presents the correct Proforma Invoice. Some suppliers did this intentionally in order to
prolong the time quoted for delivery of equipment by delaying the date of opening an operational L/C (with no
mistakes), the time from which delivery period is counted.
23.    Delay in presenting the 10% Bank guarantee and/or presenting a conditioned guarantee that is
unacceptable to the PIU in accordance with World Bank regulations. It took quite a number of suppliers
several iterations with the PIU to present an unconditional Bank guarantee. In many cases, only part of the
conditions were corrected, then after requesting the removal of the rest of the conditions, the supplier responds
to our request by removing them and adding totally new conditions, and so the delay process goes on. In some
cases, the PIU had to cancel contracts with suppliers that over did it to the extent of abusing the PIU's tolerance
to accept this matter, given that the altemative of re-bidding is lengthy, especially when you don't have another
successful offer to consider, that is technically acceptable.
22



24.    Part of the essential documents needed by the National Bank of Egypt to open the LlCs for local
suppliers to pay them in foreign currency, is the approval of the Ministry of Economic to authorize the PIU to
issue payments to the local suppliers in foreign currencies. In some cases, this process caused considerable
delay in opening the L/Cs.
Action taken:   A PIU representative was dedicated to follow-up with the Ministry of Economics, on a daily
basis, considerably reduced the delays.
25.    Another document that is needed by the National Bank of Egypt to open a L/C is the preliminary
estimate for customs duties on every shipment arriving to Egypt. This was necessary in the absence of
referencing the UNESCO agreement in the loan proceeds, being the only agreement that exempts all
educational equipment from all customs duties, as well as from taxes. Note that, although the Sales Tax was
introduced after the project started implementation of its activities, the PIU had a lot of hard time convincing
the Tax Authority that all the equipment purchased are for educational purposes. High officials in the Tax
Authority approved temporary release of the equipment, after the PIU Director presented a signed testimony
that he is fully responsible to pay all the taxes (same goes for customs duties), and expenses incurred, in case of
failure to present Tax (and Custom Duties) exemption certificates. This process kept ongoing for at least the
first four years of implementation until the letter was received from the Minister of Finance exempting every
individual shipment at a time.
Recommendation: The World Bank should consider in his future projects stating explicitlv in the project legal
document that UNESCO agreement is applicable. Also, to help the implementing agency perform its duties, the
Bank should consider having the government agree, in writing, on the exemption of all the goods to be
procured for educational purposes under future projects, from all forms of taxes and customs duties. This
would save the implementing agency from having to get exemption certificate for every individual shipment.
26.    In many situations, the shipping documents were considerably delayed, and arrived to the PIU well
after the shipment arrived to Egypt. As the PIU cannot initiate customs clearance procedures without having
the shipping documents, considerable delays and penalties were imposed, particularly for storage, and had to be
paid by the supplier.
Action taken:   Suppliers were frequently reminded ahead of time, and before expiry of the delivery date, to
issue three original shipping documents as stipulated in the Bid Document, one of which goes for the PIU, and
follow-up with their Banks to make sure it reaches the PIU before shipments arrive.
27.    Towards the end of each fiscal year (during March or April), the PIU requests from the Ministry of
Planning (MOP) the budget needed to implement its committed and planned activities during the fiscal year,
presenting all the necessary documentation to justify the requested budget. Unfortunately, by the beginning of
each fiscal year, and towards the end of July, MOP only approves a very small portion of the budget requested.
The PIU had to resubmit an identical copy of the application and the support documentation, and it took MOP a
long time (2-4 months) to approve the whole budget that was requested well before the fiscal year begins. This
process had to be repeated every year, thus causing major delays in issuing payments to suppliers, despite the
continuous daily follow-up by the PIU to speed up the approval process, which essentially requires approval of
the Cabinet of Ministers again. The PIU requested intervention from the MOIC to help accelerate the approval
process, with little success to reduce the time. In effect, the project implementation was fully effective 7-8
months annually.
Recommendation: To ensure (through a kind of written agreement) that MOP approves the budget needed, so
long as the support documents show conclusive evidence of contractual obligations and commitments. This
will considerably improve implementation for not having to repeat the elaborate mechanism of getting the
Cabinet of Minister's approval twice to get the same originally requested budget approved with the identical
support documentation.
23



28.    When buying goods from the local market, according to the loan agreement, 80% of the contract value
was to be paid from the loan, and 20% from local funds to cover all forms of taxes and customs duties, which
are not eligible for payment from the loan. In the absence of a local account for the PIU, extensive delays in
paying the 20% were realized. According to the Ministry of Economics, which issues approvals to government
agencies to open accounts in local currency, the PIJ is not authorized to open a separate account in the
presence of MOHE's accounts. Accordingly, the PIU had to use the Ministry's mechanism to issue the 20%,
which are lengthy and require different sets of documents than those required under World Bank regulations.
Action taken:   The PIU had to struggle all along the different phases of implementation and insist on having
the Ministry issue the 20% without having to go through the elaborate mechanism of producing the required
documents for disbursement from local government funds. This process had to be repeated many times, ie.
every time the staff at MOHE is changed.
Recommendation: An account in local currency has to be opened to correspond to the Special Account in
foreign currency away from the MOHE accounts. This has to be done with the approval of the Ministry of
Economics. Also, disbursement procedures from both accounts have to be made the same to avoid any delay in
retention payments and/or the 20% from the local funds. This should not cause any problems to concerned
government authorities since auditors from the government review, on regular basis, disbursements made from
both accounts.
29.    One of the major obstacles in issuing retention payments to suppliers who fulfilled their contractual
obligations, was the delay of the faculties of engineering in presenting to the PIU the final acceptance
documents for the equipment they received. By law, the PIU cannot release the retention payment, nor the
10% performance guarantee, unless the final acceptance documents are in hand. The following are some of the
diverse reasons for the delay in inspecting and testing the supplied equipment and in issuing the acceptance
documents:
*   Difficulty in gathering the inspection committee members, together with the supplier's
representative, particularly during summer holidays, and in universities outside greater Cairo
where travel arrangements have to be well coordinated and made ahead of time.
*   Absence of the store Keeper of the concerned faculty most of the time. He is the administrative
key person responsible for issuing the final acceptance documents.
*   Suppliers frequently request permission to change some of the contacted items, or deliver items
other than those contracted for without requesting PIU approval, or deliver the equipment with
missing cables, catalogues, spare part items and/or tools and components that are necessary for
the installation process. In cases like computers and their peripherals, where rapid upgrading and
technological changes takes place, the TEC accepts the supplier's request when it is an upgrade of
all its technical specifications, with no change in price. However, this approval mechanism is a
lengthy process that consumes a lot of time.
*   Incomplete infrastructure of the laboratories receiving the equipment, in so many cases, caused
delays in issuing pending payments to suppliers.
Action taken:   The PIU appointed several staff members, the majority were engineers, their primary job was
to follow-up on installation procedures, coordinating between the suppliers and the concernedfaculties, and to
make sure that certificates of acceptance were issued immediately after the final testing of the equipment.
Recommendation: Concluding contracts with suppliers, not on CIF basis, but on the basis of site delivery,
including installation, testing and turnover would resolve most of the problems causing delays. However, this
option was carefully examined by the PIU and was found to be very expensive if applied as a general principaL
Suppliers tend to exaggerate in quoting for the price of turnkey projects. Installation, testing and turnover of
all the heavy machinery and laboratory equipment that needed installation was contractedfor to ensure their
proper performance.
30.    Delays in issuing custorms duties checks from the MOHE (local funds), as well as checks for the
customs clearance agency employed by the PIU caused, in mnany cases, considerable delays. The MOHE had
to pay penalties and extra charges for warehouse storage because of these delays. As a rule, when extra
charges are paid, the PIU Director has to transfer all the documents to the legal department at the MOHE to
determine who caused the delay, and consequently the cause for paying the penalties and extra charges. This is
a lengthy process that consumed a lot of PIU time in preparing responses to the legal department.
24



Procurement Issues
31.    The equipment selected by the Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC), based on the technical specifications
requested did not meet the expectation of the end user, which proposed the preliminary technical specifications.
The final specifications were prepared by a technical committee formed by the EEDP Director, in coordination
with the end user and the PIU, and the collective specifications were included in a bidding document that was
prepared and released for intemational tendering by the PIU. The end user had a specific equipment brand in
mind, which the BEC was not able to select in the presence of other technically acceptable offers that are much
lower in price (World Bank regulation).
The result: Difficulty in receiving the supplied equipment by the end user, difficulty in issuing the final
acceptance form by the end user (necessary document for issuing retention money), and consequently delay in
the retention payment to the supplier.
Recommendation: Including the end user in the Bid Evaluation Committee was sometimes problematic for the
PIU. Experience indicates that sometimes when an end user is selected as a member of the BEC, in so many
cases, he has the tendency to find reasons to eliminate technically acceptable offers that are lower in price than
the one he wants to select and matches his needs. Although it would be ideal to fulfill his requirements, this
would not be acceptable under World Bank regulations where fair practice and equal opportunities among all
suppliers have to be honored. The PIU, in several occasions, had to return to the BEC the list of selected
equipment to reconsider their selection without violating World Bank regulations that are binding to the PIU.
It would be recommended, however, to have the end user endorse the equipment selected by the BEGC before
issuing the final notification of awards to suppliers. However, although implementing this process is safer, and
would ensure acceptance of the delivered equipment by the end user, the time consumed in the bid evaluation
process would be considerably prolonged.  In addition, if the end user decides not to accept the selected
equipment, the PlUwould be cornered. The only way out was carefully select the BEC members, and to ensure
that they carefully consider the technical specifications and fulfil all the needs of the end users, within World
Bank stated guidelines and regulations.
32.    During the early tenders released by the PIU, it took the World Bank procurement experts a long time
to review and accept the Bid Documents, as well as the Bid Evaluation Report.
The result: Delay in contracting procedures, where the contracts should have been awarded to the successful
bidders within the bid validity period and prior to the expiration of the bid validity. Reputable bidders who
submitted technically acceptable offers, and who are qualified and capable of performing their contracts, were
dismayed when the PIU requested extension of their bid validity.
Recommendation: Bid documents should be reviewed and endorsed by both the World Bank and the Borrower
before the project starts to avoid such delays. The presence of a Resident Mission office in the borrower's
country, would certainly help accelerate the process, in the event of having procurement officer(s) within the
mission with the necessary authority to review and endorse completed bid documents, as well as bid evaluation
reports.
33.    Most of the Intemational tenders were dedicated for the procurement of complete laboratories to fulfil
the needs of the eighteen faculties of engineering supported by the ETEP project. Accordingly, in the bidding
document, it was stated explicitly that priority will be given to complete laboratories, followed by complete
schedules, i.e. equipment of similar nature were grouped together in a schedule to encourage specialized
bidders to give their best offers at reduced prices.  In the majority of the tenders, the Bid Evaluation
Commnittees were able to select complete laboratories, as stipulated in the bidding document, by applying the
rule of selecting the minimum technically acceptable offers on the total price of the complete laboratory, and
not on the basis of individual equipment. This was done to ensure compatibility between equipment, and to
confine the responsibility of maintenance and warranty of the equipment in the hands of one supplier.
However, in many cases, the BEC was not able to select complete laboratories for several reasons, such as;
* Non of the suppliers presented an offer for a complete laboratory, only partial offers were
received. In some cases, only one supplier offered a complete laboratory, but some of the
equipment in his offer did not meet the specifications requested, or were over exaggerated in
price, particularly in the presence of other partial offers that included identical equipment for a
much lower price.
25



*   Suppliers participating in the bidding operation are not qualified nor specialized in the type of
laboratory equipment requested.
*   Loosely defined technical specification could lead to the selection of non qualified bidders on the
basis that they meet the criteria for selection. This was one of the reasons that prevented some of
the reputable suppliers from participating and presenting an offer. In addition, wide range of
equipment is presented (ranging from industrial equipment to prototypes), and of which meet the
criteria for selection and cannot be refused on technical basis.
* The type of equipment requested for the laboratory, are not manufactured by one single supplier.
Reputable and specialized suppliers are not interested except in offering the part of equipment
they manufacture, and decline from presenting offers from other suppliers for the rest of the
equipment to complete their offers.
All these factors, together with the binding regulations of the World Bank, are among the reasons that made it
so difficult for the BEC to select complete laboratories from a single supplier. As a consequence of this
situation, the PIU was obliged to conclude, in some cases, several contracts with different suppliers for one
single laboratory. Compatibility problems (in few cases only) caused many problems during installation of the
equipment, which took longer time than anticipated to install and test the equipment.  Coordination
adrministered by the PIU staff between the different suppliers, and the end user to arrange for the installation
and testing of the equipment, was a major source of delay. It is essential in such cases to carefully prepare the
technical specifications, and ensure they are well defined to invite the qualified bidders to present their offers.
34.    The contracts that have been concluded with the selected bidders were all on CIF basis. The
consequences of having all contracts on CIF basis caused a lot of problems for the PIU. With the huge number
of contracts made (around 500 contracts), it would have been much better to have the contracts made on the
basis of site delivery, including installation, commissioning and startup. Problems were encountered during
transportation from the port of destination to the cargo warehouse, and to the sites. Insurance coverage should
have also been made on the contracted goods from the port of destination to the sites in order to enable prompt
replacement of lost or damaged goods. Loss of small items such as hand tools was frequently reported with no
definite responsibility to replace lost or damaged items. Lengthy procedures to custom clear the shipments,
were addressed earlier. Charges for warehousing, storing, and safeguarding had to be paid for delays in
customs clearance.
Overall Project Implementation
35.    Several issues and recommendations on the overall project implementation are briefly pointed out for
consideration when designing new projects of similar nature:
- Funds in the form of grants should be enabled to start-up any new project to ensure that all
implementation mechanisms, including the establishment of the PIU, are in order. It is highly
recommended that the World Bank consider making this seed money part of any future loan agreement
for implementing similar projects. Funds sufficient to support the first six months of implementation,
or preferably to support the first year large projects, would be adequate.
* The procurement process could have been made much easier if all similar laboratories were grouped in
one tender and procured for all the eighteen faculties of engineering, with much less problems to
encounter. But because the project had multiple objectives to fulfill, it was difficult to do so. The
competitive mechanism that was implemented successfully was meant to fulfil the needs of individual
faculties, and not to impose a specific type of laboratory. Also, Involving as many staff members in the
implementation of the EEDP component of the project (over 15% of staff members of engineering
faculties were involved), was one of the main objectives of the EEDP program. The involvement of
staff members should be highly encouraged in similar future projects for ensuring accountability and
transparency, and for gaining credibility and confidence in the whole implementation process.
* The accumulated training and experience gained by the PIU personnel needs to be invested by the
MOHE in future projects. The lessons leamed during the various phases of implementation would
enable the PIU staff to start-up a new project on immediate basis.  This has been frequently
recommended by the World Bank Supervision Missions.
26



Appendix 1.1
Procedural Chart of the EEDP Policy



Appendix 1.1
Procedural Chart of the EEDP Policy
The following chart outlines the policy of the EEDP towards the implementation of educational development plans in
engineering faculties. The chart shows the evaluation and refereeing procedures and refers to the various associated
bodies.
EEDP OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES
E.L.D.C.
BE.P.C. |
J                   e~~~~~~P E.P.C.|
co O
$                   |  ~~~~~T. E. C. A 
Cnite                                               P
+       t_  T~~ender Document
Program    |u<at 
P.I.M.C.~~



List of Acronyms
Engineering Library Development Committee
B.E.SC,           Basic & Engineering Sciences Committees
EE..G.            Engineering Education Program Group
_.E.P..     Engineering Education Program Evaluation
3E4 .P.C. See- Engineering Publications Committee
P.PIA$.           Proposal Preparation Assistance Service
P.Cv   Preliminary Evaluation Committee
T.i5e.            Technical Evaluation Committee
'U',,,       rojects Implementation Unit
cientific Equipment Maintenance Committee
P.LM.CP roposal Implementation Monitoring Committee
E EAS.            Proposal Implementation Assistance Service



Appendix 1.2
Statistics of Funded Proposed Plans



Appendix 1.2
Statistics of Funded Proposed Plans
In this appendix the statistics of those proposals that, were approved for funding and, hence, under went implementation
under the EEDP are given.
The following chart illustrates the distribution of funded proposals among the various faculties of engineering.
Numbers of Funded Proposals
[By Faculty]
50
_)                                                       *Submitted
0                 -EPrel. Preview
0 
20     ------       --------------------------------------------------------- -------------------
E
10                                 -------------
z
0
U, CU  X  x R_L* - * D'-
E         (   6              a      o o        c c            N   D
ca'au)~ ~ ~ 9 uD                        M( 9        M
-)                Co .-~-             C 0 ; ..-    =cu 
.C             <~~~~~ 
Faculty
The following chart shows the progress in the number of approved proposals from one implementation cycle to the
other.
Number of Funded Proposals
(by Cycle)
50
4 0--         - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2L  0        -------                                           I------------------ l  ;:; 
.C



The following figure illustrates how funding was distributed among the various faculties of engineering
Budgets of Funded Proposals
[ By Faculty]
3500
2500  -----------
a    00 100 0
5 100                                       --------n  iln
E') n  .,-     0  E  M s   E  C         - =       C ( E  N  W  CY
E  .D~                     - 0  C  o  :3       F  -0     *
C/) ~~~~~~0                               UC) :       U)  ,I
Co <                   '                      -             c
X          OLL  0L                                       N
Faculty
The following figure shows the statistical distribution of budgets of implemented proposals. The mean proposal budget
was computed to be nearly $ 96,000.
Distribution of Approved Proposals Budgets
60
X   50
0                          --------------- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -   -- - - - - -- --- -r- - -----
40
40
0~
20
aJ  20/| 
E
o~~~~,
( 1000$)



The following figure shows the distribution among the various engineering disciplines of proposal numbers.
40- /_.S      _      |||X      0:    
25
d 10
z
Gri         Gr2         Gr3         Gr4          Gr5
Gr. 1: Electronics, Communications, and Computers
Gr. 2: Physics, Chemistry, Mechanics, Chemical Engineering and Libi
Gr. 3: Civil Engineering, Mining, and Petroleum
Gr. 4: Mechanical Engineering
Gr. 5: Basic Electrical, and Electric Power Engineering
The following figure shows the distribution among the various engineering disciplines of proposal budgets.
c, 450C                     
400C  <;   
W350n,,:.I__ 
X300f/        __                             A  =   
al 
20
0
Grl        Gr2         Gr3         Gr4         Gr5
Gr. 1: Electronics, Communications, and Computers
Gr. 2: Physics, Chemistry, Mechanics, Chemical Engineering and Libraries
Gr.3: Civil Engineering, Mining, and Petroleum
Gr.4: Mechanical Engineering
Gr. 5: Basic Electrical, and Electric Power Engineering



Following is a breakdown of the total budget devoted to support educational development plans in engineenng faculties.
Total Budget of Funded Proposals
Experts
67.2%
Goods                   er         s
98.9%
Miscelleneous
Training              11.8%
21.0%



Appendix 1.3
Proposal Preparation Assistance Service



Appendix 1.3
Proposal Preparation Assistance Service
The progress in the number of preparation-assisted proposals over implementation cycles is shown in the following
figure. This is followed by breakdowns of those assisted proposals according to faculty and discipline.
Proposal Preparation Assistance Service
/                          (Cl Requested ~~~PPAS)
20       .                                      OucsflPA
,.01                                           a
co0  15       ---------------------:-------------
0)
4 -   1     0   -- - - - - - - -                                      -------. 
:    5
z
0
Cycle
Proposal Preparation Assistance Service
[by Faculty]
12
E:lRequested PPAS
o   10              _lSuccessful PPAS
0)
CL0                      CLun8u
0
0
a-
E
Z  2~             
0                                                           ------I-E--E
CD         0~~~~~>  C 
H                                            0m
0              LL      fl       C
Faculty



Engineering Chemistry                                          4
Engineering Physics                                            3
Architecture                                                   3
Materials Engineering                                          3
Fundamentals of Computers                                      2
Engineering Mechanics                                          1
Fluid Mechanics                                                1
Engineering Library Development                                1
Engineering Geology & Rock Mechanics                           1
Chemical Engineering                                           1
Automotive Engineering                                         1
Mechanical Workshops                                           1
It is interesting to notice that out of a total of 22 requests for proposal preparation assistance only three were concerned
with rather advanced engineering curricula (Engineering Geology, Chemical Engineering and Automotive
Engineering). All the others dealt with basic sciences or basic engineering sciences. These figures manifest a good
academic prioritizing judgement on the part of engineering faculties. This fact and the fact that the assisted proposals
were prepared by renowned experts resulted in a 95% acceptance record.



Appendix 1.4
COMPUTER NETWORK FOR
ENGINEERING LIBRARIES
(CNEL)



Appendix 1.4
COMPUTER NETWORK FOR
ENGINEERING LIBRARIES
(CNEL)
Description of CNEL
The Computer Network for Engineering Libraries (CNEL) consists of 18 nodes, corresponding to the 18 Engineering
Faculties in Egypt. The nodes are classified into 3 Primary Nodes and 15 Secondary Nodes. Each primary node stores
the database information for all 18 Engineering Libraries. It is also connected to a central Internet gateway. As such,
each primary node acts as a Class C Internet node responsible for a number of secondary nodes in its domain.
The secondary node stores the database for the local library information. It also accesses the database for other
Engineering Libraries via its parent primary node. In addition, it accesses the Internet via the same primary node
Table 1 lists all nodes in the CNEL, their geographic location, their class type (primary or secondary), as well as the
name of the homing primary node for each secondary node.
Within each node (whether primary or secondary), a local area network is installed. The server manages access to the
library database, and to the INTERNET. Two of the PCs are equipped with bar code readers so as to handle circulation
activities at the library. One PC is dedicated to the Library Staff for Cataloguing and Acquisition activities, while the
other PC is to be used for Searching activities by the Library User or Library Staff. The communication gateway, in
conjunction with the appropriate software, provides connectivity between the secondary node and its parent primary
node, and between the primary node and the central gateway.
A network management system (NMS) is installed in each primary node. Such facility allows the system administrator
to carry out the necessary management functions at the primary node and the secondary nodes in its domain, as well as
to exchange management information with other NMS located at other primary nodes.
Figure 1 depicts the schematic diagram for the components of a primary node, while Figure. 2, depicts the secondary
node schematic diagram.
The physical links between the different nodes are based on the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), the X.25
Packet Switched Network (EGYPTNET), and/or the VSAT Network
Table 1. List of nodes and their types in the proposed
Computer Network for Engineering Libraries
51          Ciro [airoya                           Cairo ro  l                l
| 2    12 ~~Fayoum        |o -=                ayou _           | 2ry     l 
| 3     || AinAin Sh ams     inSas         |Cairo              ||2r        ||i       l
| 4     || ~Helwan        ||Helwan       7   |Cairo||2y                    |;1I
| 5     |~~Mtarya          ||Helwan         llCairo               2y      l1
[ 6        I[ Port Said       J Suez Canal     ||Port Said         ]        Iy 11_1
[ 7        I| Suez           1[ Suez Canal      [Suez              11 2ry    || 1
[ 8        IL Shoubra        1J Zagazig         [Cairo             || 2ry_||           _
[ 9        I [Alexandria     |[ Alexandria     j[ Alexandria       I          li ---
|          I0 |Tanta         I| Tanta ta         Tanta             || 2y    i| 9
i_______ 11  |Kafr El-Sheikh    |[ Tanta      | Tanta           ]I 2ry       9
|[12      I| Mansoura         ][ Mansoura      J[ Mansoura          II          9
[13      li Menouf          |[ Menoufia       J[ Menouf            _ _ 2ry     l
114       j[ Shebin El-Kom    |[ Menoufia      |[ Shebin EI-Kom    II 2       || 9
15       l[ ZaZagazig          agazig         I[ Zagazig          ] 2
[16        [ Assiut           11 Assiut         If Assiut          II l       I-
[17          Menia           |I Menia          || Menia            |           16



W orkstation
for           Server         Communication
Network M anagement                  G ateway/Router   TO INTERNET
~  ~C    PC with  PC with
Bar Code Bar Code                t Sconar
Reader   Rear                               o
Fig. I Components ocal Area Network a
k   |      l       l        ~~~~~~~Scanner/Printe       
OServerCommuniationS
PC     PC   PC with  PC with
Bar Code Bar Code
Reader   Reader
Fig. I Components of local aTea network at psimary node
Server              Communication
G atew ay/R o uter
To Router
at Parent
At the Pm Nd iainomae arinmtary
nodes belonging to it.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~N de
l S m  socal A rea N etwork
Sparteilearmantanedforec   lbg icanner/Printo s
L  X    C        C       ~       ~     ~ ~ ~~Servv
PC     PC   PC with  PC with             dtases.
Hiar Caode B ar Coade     Scaner   m tnal t
Reader   Reader
Fig. 2 Components oflocal area network at secondary node
Services Provided by CldEL
At the Secondary Noden Access to local database for library information system; Access to database at primary node
concering other library information systems; Exchange of E-Mail and performing file transfer between users at the
secondary node, as well as between users at different nodes. In addition, access to INTERNET services (e.g. E-Mail,
FTP, WWW, and TELNET) Support of(multimedia applications and their communication.
At the Primary Node:    in addition to similar services as above; Acting as a Class C Interet node; Providing WWW
server facilities; Performing network management finctions at the local network level, as well as for the secondary
nodes belonging to it.
General System Features
* Separate files are maintained for each library or combining information into system-wide files.
*  The system shall require password access control to access remote databases.
p Hardware operates in a real-time interactive mode and can create, update, maintain, and access all data for
library materials and patrons in real-time.
* Expansion to include additional features or enhancements and irnprovements in technology is possible
without interruptions to the programs already running.
* Software to support acquisitions, interlibrary loan, journal citation, information and referral file, and other
modules is being supplied.
* The system provides functional links to the Internet, and performs standard Internet finctions such as E-mail,
file transfer (FTP), remote login (Telnet), World Wide Web (WWW) browsing, and WVVW server.
* The system hardware and software supports and the interfacing standards developed under the Open Systems
Interface Reference Model, including Z39.50.
 The system provides continuous backups for the duplication of files in case of system failure.
* The system provides integrated management capability that includes configuration management,
performance management, and fault management.



Functional Aspects of the Library Automation Software
General requirements
1- The system has the following integrated modules:
A) Cataloging and database maintenance
B) Circulation
C) Acquisitions
D) Serials control
E) Patron access catalog
F) Report generator
G) Z 39.50 server capabilities
Access to Internet and its services as well as providing WWW server capabilities for its library records.
2- The system supports Interlibrary loan, Journal citation, Information and referral, and Inventorying
3- The system is integrated, with all modules sharing a common bibliographic database (except as libraries sharing
the system may choose to maintain separate files) and a common command language.
4- It can move from one library module to another without logging off and on.
5- The system uses two languages, namely English and Arabic.
Cataloging and Database Maintenance Aspects
1- The system detects duplicate records - including duplicate bibliographic, authority, and item records - entered into it
and retain them in a review file.
2- The system allows accommodation of full MARC bibliographic, authority, and holding records.
3- The system is capable of inputting and outputting bibliographic, authority, and holding records in MARC 11
communication format.
4- The system is capable of accepting on-line transfer of bibliographic and authority record from CLC (or, at the option
of the library Administration, from RLIN or WLN).
5- The system is capable of accepting transfer of bibliographic records from CD-ROM-based systems, including
Bibliofile.
Serials Control
1- The system is able to accommodate all types of serials, including, but not restricted to: periodicals, proceedings,
transactions, indexes, and loose-leaf material
2- The system has the following serials control capabilities: ordering, check-in, union listing, claiming.
3- The system provides the ability to search for serials records by at least:
title, call number, ISSN, publisher, corporate author/title, conference title, keyword , and subject.
Patron Access Catalog
1- The patron access catalog provides access to both individual library holdings and combined system-wide
bibliographic files and authority files.
2- The system permits keyword searching of title, series, subject, personal name, corporate name, and conference name.
3- The system permnits patrons to undertake Boolean searches using terms in AND, OR, and NOT relationships.
4- The system shall allow the storing (and modification) of patron search results for the duration of the session.
5- The system shall be able to search remote databases.
Circulation
1- The system provides for electronic scanning of bar code labels on patron cards and library materials.
2- The system provides for the keyboarding of item and patron information.
3- The patron file contains at least the following: patron identification number, patron name, permanent, and school
addresses and telephone numbers, any restrictions on borrowing, type of patron, fees or fines owned, materials,
outstanding, holds, last action date, expiration date of registration.
Acquisitions
1- The following acquisition functions are accommodated: - pre-order searching, ordering, claiming, cancellation of
orders, receipt processing, fund accounting, vendor accounting
2- A variety of materials are accommodated, including but not limited to:
monographs, serials, documents,
3- The system shall accommodate and identify items in a variety of formats, including but not limited to: print,
microfilm, video, audio.



Inter-library Loan
1- The system is capable of accommodating an interlibrary loan (ILL) module capable to manage the library's
borrowing of materials from other libraries.
2- The ILL module supports the lending of materials from the library's collections to other libraries.
Report Generator
1- The system includes a report generator module.
2- The report generator offers a wide range of fornatting options, including, but not limited to: tabular and text
presentation, column widths, number of lines per page, page headers and footers,
3- The report generator shall offer sorting capabilities.
4- The report generator shall allow for specification of the data content of a report, including choice of titles, column
headings, data elements, row labels, header and footnote contents.



Appendix 1.5
Review Results



Appendix 1.5
Review Results
This appendix summarizes the outcome of a comprehensive review process, which was designed by the EEDP
management and took place during the last six months prior to the completion of the EEDP program. This appendix
lists the main review statistics, which reflect the extent of success that the EEDP was able to reach.  In the main text,
and also in light of these statistics, a critical analysis of the results is given where the main implementation difficulties
and their sources are underlined.
Over-all level of success
Markers for estimating the over-all level of success of an individual education development plan were set by EEDP
management.  Three classes of success were identified, the highest indicates that the development plan was
implemented as proposed and to the satisfaction of the EEDP management, while the second level suggests some
deficiency in implementation yet the plan is still regarded as somewhat successful. Plans, which failed to bring
significant improvement in the educational process, were placed in the third class.
46~~~~
30i                           - -     -       --2-- --  - _      P   _
90,     /r     6Av.660/A
20-
~  0
E  60  //.060/c
2-                                _   =_ __ __ __ __
1                   2                   3
Code
Code
1 The proposal was generally successful ,and fulfilled its goals
2 The proposal fulfilled many of its goals, some goals remained unachieved
3 The proposal did not produce a significant level of achievement
Institutional Feed-back
The review commnittee members communicated with the administrators and faculty members responsible for the
implemented individual development plans. By doing so, the committee members sought the faculty members'
impression about the extent of fulfillment of the original goals and the general impact of the developed plan on the
education process. That communicated level of fulfillment was assigned a mark out of 5. A 5/5 mark indicates an
exceptionally good impression of the achievement, while a 1/5 mark indicates an impression of gross deficiency in
implementation.
The following two chart depicts the over-all statistical distribution of marks of the 159 development plans in eighteen
faculties of engineering. The two charts exhibit the same distribution of marks, one in cumulative form and the other in
a frequency distribution form.



90     -;    \---5  
70
6 80
in
o 70                                               __ _.  . . :___._. _._.._:______
30
22  3 
60
0
0
I 20                                                                                                 . . . . . . .. . .
I 0
0-
. .
o ~~~.~                                                 .   _ -           ,              H 
I      1.5          2           2.53                                   4                          5
Mark
Institutional critical views
For development plans receiving marks less than 4/5 the review comuittee was instructed to take notes of the reasons
behind institutional dissatisfaction.   Following is a collective summary of those reasons:
UJincomplete supply of originally proposed equipment
La Specifications are somewhat inferior, or, simply different, from original ones.
Z) Strained relations between monitoring conmmittees and faculty members who were not comifortable with the
procedures of monitoring.
 Delays in solving implementation problems. Those delays were normally attributed to imposed regulations and
some suppliers' improper conduct.
LDissatisfaction with the behavior of some suppliers, e.g. poor after-sale service, lack of technical support,
missing manuals, etc.



It is of particular interest to examine how well the institutional impressions about program success correlate with the
review conmuittee judgement. A correlative analysis was performed between the two sets of results - both shown
above. The correlation coefficient was +0.73, which indicates a reasonably strong agreement between the judgement of
the review committee and that of the institutions. This fact, consequently, confirms the validity of the reported results.
Other Indicators of Implementation Success
This section includes statistics on some indicators, which reflect on the "goodness" of the education development plans
implementation. The Indicators were determnined bthe review Committee.
a- Implementation Cost Indicator
This indicator compares the originally approved budget of an individual development plan to the actual expenditure of
that program after its completion.  Three cases of comparative actual cost are identified and are shown in the figure.
1f
so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Cd
1  Actul9cos fal /ihil %f orgia buge
80                                       -----
cL60 /                                      ---      -      -     ._.       ._.
CL so K
30z 
2  Actual cost is less than original budget by more tha35 %
3 Actual cost exceeds original budget by more that5 %
The review committee investigated the causes of any serious deviation of the actual budget from the original one.
Below, those causes are summarized in order of frequency of occurrence the first cause being the most often to take
place.
Cases where the cost was less than original budget:
L Items and material were over estimated in the original budget.
E Some items were dropped altogether from the procurement process during implementation because they proved
to be obsolete, unavailable, or excessively expensive.
u Failure of institutions - towards the end of the program- to complete the technical and paper work necessary for
purchase by direct order.
L Some items were selected with inferior specifications when it became clear to the bid evaluation committees that
more complex specifications are not justified for the purpose.
U Originally planned training did not take place either because it proved useless or a training body could not be
found.
U Some items were readily made available by the institution and, therefore, were not purchased.



Cases where the cost exceeded original budget:
Z   Items and material were under estimated in the original budget.
ii-     Specifications Indicator
This indicator is concerned with the match between the specifications of the actually procured items and those
originally approved. The statistics of this indicator are given in the figure.
83.64Y    ^
10
80-                                 -
,,70 _       y 
OM  60-
40-
m  30t//                                                             4.570/Ac
z20
2                      3
Code
Code
I  Goods generally conform to original specifications
2  Some equipment specifications are different from original ones
3 A major part of the originally proposed goods could not be supplied
The review comnmittee investigated the causes of any serious deviation of the actual and original specifications.
Below, those causes are summarized in order of frequency of occurrence the first cause being the most often to take
place.
J By the time the items were delivered to the institutions the specifications became obsolete. This is particularly
true for computers and related items.
Z   The Bid Evaluation Committee - in view of what suppliers are actually offering - intentionally altered some
specifications, with or without the consent of the beneficiary institution.
I  Inaccurate reading of catalogs by /or the proposal writers and the bid evaluation committees resulted in the
supply of items which lacked some necessary parts or accessories
J Originally proposed specifications were vague
L The sometimes, poor quality of supplied equipment hindered the full use of the provided specifications.
I Lack of full compatibility between different items reflected adversely on the full utilization of equipment
specifications.
iii-    Equipment utilization indicator
This indicator is concerned with the way the supplied equipment and goods were put to use at the institution, and with
whether the supplied items are utilized according to the original commitment by the institution..    The statistics of
this indicator are given in the figure.



86.92
60e            _      -              -------
10~~~~~~~~~~1.5
E                    a                                      7_261A
2z 20-                                                        _      
0~~~~~~~~~~1A~
1                    2                    3
Code
Code
1 New facilities are put to use in conformity with the original plans
2 New facilities are used on a scale which is much smaller than what was originally planned
3 New facilities are used for purposes that are different from those originally proposed
The review commrittee investigated the causes of any serious violation of the originally intended use of material and
equipment. This violation is either manifested in that equipment is underused, or is used for purposes, which were not
originally approved. Below, those aspects are summarized in order of frequency of occurrence the first being the most
often to take place.
U Specifications of delivered equipment are somewhat inferior to what was originally planned causing incomplete
use of equipment.
u Necessary training did not take place hindering the Institution's ability to use the equipment fully.
E New facilities are partly used for research and graduate studies.
u Necessary infrastructure was not completed thus adversely affecting the full use of equipment.
iv. Courseware preparation indicator
This indicator is concerned with whether courseware material was prepared by the institution and delivered to EEDP
management as originally committed by the institution. The statistics of this indicator are given in the figure.
10o</          70.58% 
1                    2                    3
Code
Code
1 Course ware material was satisfactory
2 Course ware material was prepared but fell short of expectations in size and / or quality
3  Course ware material was not submitted
The review committee investigated the causes of any serious violation of the institution's commitment to produce
courseware material. Below, those causes are summarized in order of frequency of occurrence the first cause being the
most often to take place.



u Faculty members in charge of the development plan did not fulfill their commitment to produce such material
and administrators failed to reverse that situation. In many such cases the persons who prepared the original
proposal went on leave from the institution.
I Some development plans -by virtue of their nature- were not expected to produce tangible published material,
e.g. plans to upgrade libraries and beefing up their holdings.
z In some cases the courseware material was prepared rather hastily and came well short of the expected quality.
Z The incomplete supply of equipment or the deviation of supplied specifications from original ones sometimes
impeded the preparation of courseware material.
vi-     Training indicator
This indicator is concemed with whether training took place as part of the development plan. Training might have taken
anyone of a number of fomrs, namely, organized training course, technical visits, ... etc. The statistics of this indicator
are given in the figure.
94.11'%
701~~~~~
1    1 Some form' of triigtolc
i60ning w  imleene
so-
1                     ~~~~~~~2
Code
[-ode
l Some form of training took place
2 No training was implemented



Appendix 11.1
Generic Composition of Academic Programs
1



Appendix 11.1
Generic Composition
Of Academic Programs
1- General Education                      (GE)
Arabic language, English language...
2- Technological Foundation               (TF)
Mathematics, Science, Physics, Chemistry...
3- Technological Skills                   (TS)
Graphics, Workshop training, Computer...
4- Industrial Technical Specialties       (IS)
Manufacturing Processes, Metallurgy,
Applied Electronics ...
5- Education Methodology                  (EM)
Teaching methods, Ed. Physiology...
(EM)
1     25.0%
3 51.0oo/0                    "iilL
4     EEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S0 .0%0/
(TS)
20.0%
2



Appendix 11.2
Program Structure for Disciplines offered by
IECs Kubba and Beni-Suef
3



Appendix 11.3
Details of Enrollment and Graduates
By Specialization for both IECs
4



Appendix 11.3
Details of Enrollment and Graduates
By Specialization for both IECs
Enrolled Students in IEC Kubba by Specialization
Machine       Automotive         A/C         Electrical     Electronics      Total
91/92            11              10             22             -              25            68
92/93           26               28             20            36              31            141
93/94           36              23              4             40              28            131
94/95           28               24             28            31              57            168
95/96           28               12             59            71              58            228
96/97            7               10             83            42              77            219
97/98            15              6             125            42              87            275
Graduate Students of IEC Kubba by Specialization
Production      Automotive         A/C        Electrical      Electronics      Total
92/93            24               20             24            27              50            135
93/94            24               9              18            7               50            116
94/95            19               31             17            17              37            121
95/96            19               34             35            40              45            173
96/97            54               34             42            47              54            231
97/98            44               41             44            68              78            265
5



Appendix II.3
(Cont.)
Enrolled Students in IEC Beni-Suef to the First-Year by Specialization
Mechanical       Electrical         Civil/          Textile           Total
Architecture
93/94           48               25       -                         -               73
94/95           130              110               -                -              240
95/96           71               58                -                -               129
96/97           101              81                -                -               182
97/98           98               75                -                -               173
98/99           92               70               24                -               186
Enrolled Students in IEC Beni-Suef to the Second Year by Specialization
Mechanical       Electrical         Civil/          Textile           Total
Architecture
93/94            -                -                -                -
94/95           96               81                -                -               177
95/96           38               39                -                -               77
96/97           24               30                -                -               54
97/98           46               32                -                -               78
98/99           60               63           3                                     129
Graduate Students of the IEC Beni-Suef by Specialization
Production      Fine Mech.       Electronics     Process Cont.        Total
Technology         Tech.            Tech.            Tech.
97/98           63               17               36               27               143
98/99           81               52               56               40              229
6



Appendix 11.4
List of Workshops and Labs
7



Appendix 11.4
List of Workshops and Labs
IEC Beni-Suef Laboratories and Workshops
Specialization                                   Lab./Workshop
Basic Subjects                                    General Science Lab.
Physics Lab.
Chemistry Lab.
Computer Lab.
Micro-Teaching Lab.
Automated Library
Production Technology                             Wood Workshop
Metal Cutting Workshop
Welding Workshop
Sheet Metal Workshop
Foundry Workshop
Forging Workshop
Non-Conventional Machining Lab.
CNC Machining Lab.
Heat Treatment Lab.
Material Testing Lab.
Metallographic Testing Lab.
Fine Mechanical Equip. Tech.                     Technical Measurement Lab.
Metrology Lab.
Fine Mechanics Lab.
Hydraulic Power Lab.
Electronics Tech.                                Electronics I and Optoelectronics
Electronics If and Optoelectronics
Telecommunications Lab.
Electronics PCB Lab.
Electronics Tech.                                 Electronics I and Optoelectronics Lab.
Electronics II and Optoelectronics Lab.
Telecomrnunications Lab.
Electronics PCB Lab.
Process Control Tech.                             Process Control Lab.
Automatic Control Lab.
Instrumentation Lab.
Computer Lab.
Microprocessor Lab.
Electric Machines Lab.
Textile Technology                               Weaving Lab.
Spinning Lab.
Testing Lab.
Building Construction Tech.                       ---
Civil Construction Tech.
8



Appendix 11.4
List of Workshops and Labs
IEC Kubba Laboratories and Workshops
Specialization                                   Lab./Workshop
Basic Subjects                                    General Science Lab
Physics Lab.
Chemistry Lab.
Computer Lab.
Micro-Teaching Lab.
Automated Library
Production Technology                             Workshop
Metal Forming Lab.
Material Testing Lab.
Metal Grophy Lab.
Foundry Sand Lab.
Metrology Lab.
Finishing and Conventional
Machining Lab.
Automatic and CNC Machines
Tools Lab.
Electrical Tech.                                 Electrical Machine Lab.
Control Lab.
Measurement Lab.
Electronics Tech.                                Electronics 1 and Optoelectronics
Electronics II and Optoelectronics
Telecommunications Lab.
Electronics PCB Lab.
Electronics I and Optoelectronics Lab.
Electronics nI and Optoelectronics Lab.
Telecommunications Lab.
lElectronics PCB Lab.
Refrigeration and A/C Tech.                       Fluid Mechanics Lab.
Heat Transfer Lab.
Thermodynamics Lab.
Refrigerant Lab.
Air-Conditioning Lab.
Power Control Lab.
Automotive Tech.                                  Engine Lab.
Maintenance Lab.
Chassis Lab.
Tractors Lab.
Automotive Electrical Systems Lab.
9



