Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7996-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, 1989
Population and Human Resources
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This documnt has a resrited dibstIufio and may be used by   o      dly  i he pedrnmace of
their offIcud duies. lb oentents my not oewrwise be didosed  Woild Bank auorizaton.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1989)
Currency Unit                            Egyptian Pound (EL)
US$ 1.00                                 EL 2.41
EL  1.00                                 US$ 0.415
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIT                    Advanced Industrial Technical School
CAPMAS                 Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics
(Government Bureau of Statistics)
EEDP                   Engineering Education Development Program
EEPG                   Engineering Education Program Group
GDPP                   General Directorate for Physical Planning
HIT                    Higher Institute of Technology
IEC                    Industrial Education College
LE                     Egyptian Pound
MOE                    Ministry of Education
MORE                   Ministry of Higher Education
PIU                    Projects Implementation Unit
PPAR                   Project Performance Audit Report
PVTD                   Productivity and Vocational Training Department
SCU                    Supreme Council of Universities
TA                     Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICUL USE ONL'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC 'DATA      ...................................................     i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......... ............................         ii
COST FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT SUMMARY ..................     ....     iv
I.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION ..        ...........   I
- Economic Background ....... ...............                        I
- The Technical Education Sys_em .........................           3
- Sector Issues ..........................................           5
- Strategy for Sector Development ..........  . ..............      10
II.   THE PROJECT         ..............................................   12
- Introduction ...........................................          12
- Project Objectives and Scope           ...........................  12
-Project Design and Description ........ ...................        13
- The Engineering Education Development Program         ..........  13
- Technical reacher Education Development ................          15
III.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION              18
- Project Costz         ..........................................  18
- Project Financing          ......................................  21
- Project Management and Implementation ..................
- Procurement        ............................................   24
- Disbursements, Accounts and Audits ........... ..........         26
- Environmental Impact ................... ................         27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Egypt in February/March 1989. Mission members were Messrs. J. Salmi (Education
Economist, Mission Leader), L. Briggs (Senior Education Specialist), R. Ellis
(Technical Education Specialist), S. Mikhail (Technology Education
Specialist), S. Balu (Teacher Training Specialist), M. Fish (Equipment
Specialist) and G. Hadjicostas (Architect).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  .***........*..........  ........6**4   27
- Benefits .............   ...............................   27
- Risks ....................................................   28
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  o ...............   29
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1   Distribution of MOE and MOHE Enrollments          . .        3
1.2  Teacher Requirements, Availability and Shortage               7
3.1  Summary of Project Cost by Project Item        .             19
3.2  Project Costs by Category of Expenditures      . .20
3.3  Projected Annual Price Escalation                            21
3.4  Financing Plan .2. ....... . .. ...................    22
3.5  Procurement Arrangements .... .........                      24
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators .......... .............. 30-31
2.   Structure of the Engineering and Technical Education
System under MOE and MOHE (Chart) .....................     32
3.   Statistics on Engineering and Technical Education ...... 33-40
4.    Projection of Technical Teacher Requirements  ...........    41
5.   Criteria for Evaluation of EEDP Sub-Projects ........... 42-46
6.   Suggested Content for EEDP Sub-Project Proposals .......    47
7.   Basic and Engineering Science Sub-Program .............. 48-49
8.    Project Preparation Assistance Services .    ..........    50-51
9.   Maintenance Program For Instructional
Facilities and Equipment .........     ............... 52-53
10.   Summary of Technical Assistance Activities in EEDP ..... 54-56
11.   Projected Intake, Enrolment and Output of the IECs ......    57
12.   Summary of Foreign & Local Specialists Services ........ 58-59
13.   Implementation Action Plan:  Establishment
of the IECs ............ e.....                 ...   60-63



Page No.
14.   Summary Account by Project Component ...................  64
15.   Unit Area and Unit Costs per Student/Place ...............  65
16.   Recurrent Budget of Existing Teacher Training
Schools and Projected IEC Budget ...................... 66
17.   Equipment Procurement Scnedule for the IECs ............ 67
18.   Technical Assistance Schedule ................     ...... 68-70
19.   Schedule of Disbursement ......... .......... *...  71



SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data
(1988)
Conmtry Data
Per Capita GNP               ;  710 $
Total Population             :   51.9 million
Population Growth Rate       :    2.8 X
Literacy Rate                    50.2 X
Education Enrolment Data a/
Level and Age Group           Grade          % of Age Group b/        Girls as 2
of Enrolment
Primary     ( 6-11)           1 - 6                  88.7                44.0
Preparatory (12-14)           7 - 9                  82.4                40.9
Secondary   (15-17)          10 - 12                 52.9                38.9
Higher       (18 +)             13 +                 n.a.                33.1
Pubic Expenditure on Education
Ministry of Education as a percentage : 14.8 %
of government recurrent budget
Ministry of Education as a percentage : 12.9 X
of government capital budget
Ministry of Education as a percentage : 14.5 S
of total government budget
Total Expenditures on Education         :  3.9 S
as a percentage of GDP
a/ Including Al-Azhar schools and univer;ity.
b/ Gross Enrolment Rates, including overage students



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGUDEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and ProjectShnY
Borrower               Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficanry:          Ministry of Higher Education
Loan Amount:           US$30.5 million
Terms:                 Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project Objectives
and DescrlDiorn        The proposed project focuses on strengthening Egypt's
engineering and technical education under the Ministry
of Higher Education. The objectives of the proposed
project are: (a) to improve the quality and occupational
relevance of university engineering education; and (b)
to improve the quality of secondary and post-secondary
technical education by supporting the development of a
new, more appropriate, type of technical teacher
education system which, in the long term, would enable
meeting increasing demands for well-qualified teachers.
To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise
the following components: (a) an Engineering Education
Development Program providing upgrading of facilities,
laboratory equipment, instructional materials, and staff
development to move existing university engineering
faculties toward a more applied orientation through
stronger linkages with industry, more relevant curricula
and better qualified teaching staff; and (b) a Technical
Teacher Education Program providing instructional
equipment and technical assistance to initiate a new and
reformed system for the professional preparation of high
quality theory-cum-practice instructors to serve the
secondary and post-secondary technical schools and
institutes by establishing two new technical teacher
training colleges.
Benefits and Risks:    The proposed project is expected to yield very
significant economic benefits. By supporting the
strengthening of engineering and technical education, it
would make a major contribution to Egypt's manpower
training efforts aimed at increasing productivity in the
economy and expanding export-oriented industries.
Improvement in the quality and job relevance of
engineering education would enable the universities to



- iii -
meet more adequately the needs of the economy as
technology-intensive companies would benefit greatly from
better quality engineering graduates with appropriate
industrial knowledge and practical experience. Through
the development of better qualified technical teachers
with instructional competence in both theory and practice,
the project would increase the quality and relevance of
secondary ar.d post-secondary technical education, thus
improving the technical education system's ability to
produce well-trained skilled technicians and workers. The
principal risk associated with the engineering education
development component is that the more advanced faculties
of engineering would be in a better position to compete
and qualify for project support. To reduce this risk and
address equity concerns, the proposed project would
include a sub-project preparation facility to assist
individual faculties in the preparation of proposals for
submission under the program, especially those faculties
which have less experience in project formulation and
international cooperation. As far as the technical
teacher education component is concerned, the existing
salary scale for teaching staff presents the risk that the
new technical teacher colleges would have difficulty
attracting and retaining teacher trainers with appropriate
qualifications. This risk would be addressed by
establishing an incentives system under a special status
applicable only to a limited number of post-secondary
institutes. This would enable the college management to
recruit and keep qualified professionals. There is also a
risk that, during the transition phase, the training of
technical teachers with competence in both theory and
practice would not be fully synchronized with the reform
of the existing system with separate teachers of theory
and workshop instructors. This risk would be minimized by
careful planning of the transition phase and by arranging
for the new teachers (in-service and pre-service
graduates) to be allocated as teams to technical schools
with reformed curricula.



-iv-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
C it Financing and Disbursement Summarv
Estimated Project Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
-- (US$ million)
Engineering Education Development Program
Specialized Engineering Program Development             2.0       12.1      14.1
Project Preparation Assistance Services                 0.2        0.6       0.8
Equipment and Physical Infrastructure Maintenance   0.3            0.4       0.7
Technical Teacher Training
Kubba College                                           2.5        5.5       8.0
Beni-Suef College                                       2.7        5.6       8.3
Base Cost
Physical Contingencies                                     0.8       2.4       3.2
Price Contingencies                                     - 0.4        3.9       3.5
TOTAL                                                      8.1      30.5      38.6
=      =5=        e=
Financig Plan
IBRD                                                      0.0       30.5      30.5
Government                                                 8.1       0.0       8.1
TOTAL                                                      8.1      30.5      38.6
==   ==
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD FY
91      92       93       94      95       96
---    (US$ Millions) --            -
Annual                             1.8     4.2    11.6       9.2      2.4     1.3
Cumulative                         1.8     6.0    17.6    26.0    29.2    30.5
Eeonomic Rate of Return:               Not pplicable



ARAB REPUBIUC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL EDlUCATION
Economic Back d
1.01     The Egyptian economy expanded rapidly in the 1970s after several
years of econiomic stagnation.  Egypt's GDP increased in the latter half of the
decade at the rate of 9.4b per annum in real terms, driven by soaring oil
prices, revenues from shipping traffic in the reopened Suez Canal, increased
tourism receipts and remittances from workers abroad, and expanding foreign
aid. However, this growth and the associated inflow of foreign exchange
obscured weaknesses in the balance of payments and inefficiencies in the use
and allocation of economic resources, which worked their effects in the
1980's, as the collapse of world oil prices in 1986 and the leveling off of
workzr remittances and foreign aid led to an economic slowdown. In 1986, and
aga4:.; in 1987, real GDP increased by less than 32 per annum.
1.02     Sustained economic growth is essential for Egypt to meet the needs of
its fast growing population (2.82 per annum) and to provide jobs to its
rapidly expanding labor force (5.6% per annum). This iacrease reflects the
combined effects of population growth and rising female participation (from
6.62 in 1976 to 11.1% in 1986). The latest available statistics indicate
that, despite a relatively high level of job creation between 1980 and 1984
(average growth of 5.1% a year), the increase in employment failed to keep
pace with the growth of the labor force; open unemployment rose as a
consequence, from 5.2S to slightly over 62 (Annex 3, Tl). These figures,
however, provide only a partial picture of the degree to which human resources
are not being fully utilized in Egypt. For instance, they do not measure the
extent of underemployment among the employed, particularly in government and
public enterprises where government employment guarantees have led to
overstaffing, nor do they reflect hidden unemployment auong those who have
given up looking for work. Furthermore, the importance of the younger age
groups in the demographic structure (34.1S under 12 years of age) suggests
that the subsequent entry of these youths into the labor force, with their
rising educational qualifications, will increase the pressure to create more
jobs.
1.03     Against prospects of slower growth and scarce resources, the 1987-92
Development Plan has outlined a structural adjustment program emphasizing the



-2-
need to raise the productive capacity of the Egyptian economy through an
expansion of the private sector's role with an increase in the production of
commodities and in exports. The Plan calls for increasing productian and
improving productivity through modernizing production technology and
accompanying investments in buman capital. It recognizes that the removal of
human resources constraints is a critical element in the strategy adopted and
calls for a greater emphasis on technical education to meet the expanding
skill needs of the commodities sector. While it is doubtful that the Egyptian
economy will be able to resume rapid growth during the Plan period, with a
timely implemr'ntation of a comprehensive macroeconomic adjustment program, it
is anticipated that overall economic growth would start to accelerate by about
1992.
1.04     Deficiencies in human resources development are evident in the
educational distribution of the labor force. A 1984 survey shows that, among
the 12.6 million labor force participants 12 to 64 years of age, approximately
one-half could neither read nor write. Roughly 8S of the labor force,
however, had a university degree and another 162 had rine years of schooling.
This suggests that education levels in the workforce are rising as a result of
the growth of school enrollments (Annex 3, T2). Occupational patterns tend to
follow those of education. Slightly more than 1.4 milliUn labor force
participants were employed in technical and scientific occupations in 1984 and
another 317,000 were employed as managers and administrators (Annex 3, T3).
These two occupational groups accounted for 14.7% of the total employed
workforce.
1.05     The non-existence of official manpower forecasts and the absence of a
well-established labor market information system in Egypt make it difficult to
analyze the demand for graduates of engineering and technical education
programs. The only data available come from labor market case studies
conducted in March 1988 in selected public and private enterprises. I
Although the results of these studies are no substitute for rigorous
statistical estimates of the demand and supply of engineers and technicians,
they reflect general labor market trends worth being considered in the absence
of other data. For graduate engineers, the case studies reveal a problem of
oversupply and inadequate quality of training. On the one hand, there is an
excess supply of theoretically trained engineers, as reflected in the number
of applications for job openings (30 to 100 applicants for each job opening
advertised). Some engineering graduates are now waiting up to four years to
find employment in their specialization and it is estimated that there are
over 20,000 unemployed professional engineers in Egypt today. On the other
hand, there is a strong demand for university engineering graduates with a
more applied orientation than the theoretically trained graduates of existing
faculties of engineering. Enterprises express a marked preference for
practically-oriented engineers with the relevant knowledge and experience
needed in industry.
1/ See: IBRD, Study on Technical Education in Egypt, Report No. 7400-EGT,
August 1988.



-3-
1.06     The demand for technicians and skilied workers is being addressed
largely by the graduates of three-year secondary technical schools (Ministry
of Education) and training centers (Ministry of Industry, Productivity and
Vocational Training, Department CPVTD). Although it is difficult to
anticipate the impact of economic growth and technological change on the.
demand for technicians, there is some evidence to indicate that this demand is
affected by cutbacks in production due to the current slowdown of the national
economy as enterprises are less in a position to offer new jobs due to
cutbacks in production. Employers have a clear preference for graduates of
PVTD training centers because of the close linkages between these centers and
industry and because the quality of training in MOE secondary technical
schools is perceived to be less satisfactory. However, the relative wages
offered graduates of three-year technical schools and PVTD training centers do
not reflect a market preference between the two types of training
institutions. This is basically due to the rigid wage system in Egypt, which
breaks the link between wages and productivity.
The Teebnical Education S§stem
1.07     Overview.  Over the past thirty years, Egypt has placed a high
priority con human resources development and has made considerable progress in
building up a national education and training system to provide its economy
with a well-trained labor force. Enrollments have grown very rapidly at all
levelb. In 1986-87, 10.3 million children and youth were attending school. in
a country of 50 million people. The economic recession during the 1983-87
Plan period accelerated the trend from general education to technical
education, reflecting a recognition of the need for increased technical skills
in expanding coumodity sectors that was not being met by an educational system
geared to the satisfaction of social demands for higher education. As a
result, technical education has been playing an increasingly important role.
The number of students enrolled in tecanical education has grown tremendously,
from 7,000 in 1956 to approximately one million in 1988. The table below
presents the distribution of enrollments in engineering and technical
education in the Ministries of Education and Higher Education.
Table 1.1: DSROUTION OF MOE AND MOHE ENROLLME
(1987-88)
SECONDARY EDUCATION
General Secondary                        564,678               39.92
Technical Secondary
3-year schools                    826,093               58.4S
5-year schools                     24,530                1.7%
Total Secondary                        1,415,301              100.0X
HIGHER EDUCATION
Faculties of Engineering                  45,088                9.02
Technical Institutes                      97,4R9               19.42
Other Faculties                          353,978               71.6%
Total Higher Education                   502,555              100.0%
Source: MOE and MOHE



-4-
1.08     SecondarY Technical Education.  With 58.4% of all secondary students,
the network of three-year technical schools represents the largest component
of the school system beyond the basic education stage. These schools, which
provide training in industrial, agricultural and commercial programs, enroll
holders of the basic education certificate whose grades are usually too low
for access to general secondary education - a procedure which has adverse
effects on the ultimate quality of the skilled workforce. Enrollments in the
three-year technical schools grew by an average of 7.51 a year between 1982
and 1988 (Annex 3, T4). Expansion has been particularly strong in the
industrial schools, with an average annual increase of 141. The industrial
schools represent 402 of total enrollment, while the agricultural and
commercial schools take respectively 141 and 461 of the students in technical
education.
1.09     In recent years, the MOE has established a five-year program to train
technicians of a higher calibre than the three-year schools graduates in order
to provide the productive sectors with good quality middle-level manpower.
There are now 24 Advanced Technical Schools (five-year program) in operation
with an overall enrollment of 25,000. These schools cater to the best
students among those entering the technical education stream at the end of
preparatory school. The bulk of the students (751) are in the industrial
branches; there are only 2 agricultural and 5 commercial 5-year technical
schools. Five of the seventeen advanced industrial schools are devoted to
teacher training.
i.10     Post-Secondary Technical Education.  Technician training is also
provided in 36 post-secondary institutes (two-year programs) open to general
secondary school graduates whose end-of-secondary examination scores are too
low to give them access to the university. The rapid expansion of the
technical institutes (average annual growth of 10.42 over the last five years)
is the result of a deliberate Government policy to ease the pressure on
universities (Annex 5). Over time, the MOHE expects that the two-year
institutes will absorb about half of all general secondary school graduates.
Two-thirds of the students in these institutes attend commercial subjects, an
area which needs further development; the remaining third are enrolled in
industrial programs.
1.11     Technical Teacher Training.  Two types of teaching personnel are
currently employed in the Egyptian technical education system: teachers of
theory and instructors of workshop activities. Whereas there is a formal
system of teacher training to prepare the practical teachers, most technical
theory teachers are iniversity graduates and, as such, are not required to
undergo teacher training of any kind.
1.12     The workshop instructors are trained in Advanced Industrial Technical
Schools (AITs) offering five-year programs which combine skill development and
training in pedagogical practice. Five AITs are now in operation with a total
enrollment of 3,400: three in the Cairo area, one in Guirga in the Sohag
governorate, and one in Temai El Amdid in the Daqualeya governorate. The
three Cairo schools graduated 500 workshop instructors in 1987 in the
following main specializations: electrical, mechanical, building, clothing
manufacturing and decoration trades (Annex 3, T6 and T7). The other two
schools, which have been established recently with UNDP and ODA assistance,



- 5 -
are offering approximately the same specializations for a projected output of
200 teachers a year. The curriculum of these schools concentrates on skill
development for the first three years, with a syllabus parallel to that of the
three-year industrial schools, while pedagogical training and further skill
development are provided during the fourth and fifth years. Table 8 of Annex
3 gives the detailed curriculum structure of the AITs.
1.13     Theory teachers are graduates from either faculties of engineering or
departments of industrial education in faculties of education. The latter
category includes secondary technical school graduates following a special
four-year program offered by seven faculties of education and workshop
instructors trained in AITs entering the second year of that industrial
education program. The Government is not satisfied with the quality of
training in the departments of industrial education and has decided to stop
recruitment of these graduates. Four faculties are considering phasing out
these programs.
1.14     Engineering Education.  Studies in engineering subjects are
considered one of the most prestigious career tracks in Egypt and are usually
the first choice for the best science students entering the university.
Studies in engineering disciplines are provided by twelve faculties of
engineering which, during acadmic year 1988-89, had a combined enrollment of
about 45,000 students (Annex 3. T9). Annual graduate output is in the order
of 8,000 trained engineers, representing 8.52 of the total number of
university graduates. Most engineering students are enrolled in the
traditional fields of engineering, with 301, 28X and 26%, respectively, in
civil, mechanical and electrical engineering (Annex 3, TM0). The faculties
offer degree programs at both undergraduate and graduate levels; the latter,
especially for doctoral students, are in many cases conducted as a joint
effort between the respective institution and a foreign university. Students
generally are not required to pay tuition fees; however, graduate students are
expected to pay for consumable materiais and supplies used in their research
programs, unless they can get support from industry contracts or other
sources. Though universities, and thus their individual faculties, have a
relatively high degree of autonomy, they are nevertheless governed by the
Supreme Council of Universities (SCU) which is chaired by the Minister of
Higher Education. The SCU Committee for Engineering Education (comprising
faculty of engineering deans) provides general oversight and guidance for the
various engineering faculties.
Sbetor Issues
1.15     Quality and Relevance of Engineering Education.  Although there are a
few well-respected engineering departments with close industrial links and
enrollments commensurate with their financial resources, there has generally
been a marked deterioration in the quality of studies in most faculties in the
context of rapid expansion of enrollments with low levels of public funding.
The philosophy of free higher education, especially for an expensive
discipline like engineering, has resulted in the development of a network of
overcrowded institutions with insufficient financial, physical and human
resources to ensure adequate learning conditions. The low level of funding is
reflected in the lack of maintenance of physical infrastructure, the outdated
and insufficient equipment in workshops and laboratories, the absence of
adequate support staff, and the unavailability of adequate computer facilities



and well-supplied libraries. Furthermore, strict adherence to the rigid and
traditional curriculum requirements of the Supreme Council of Universities
(SCU) and the absence of industrial links have prevented most engineering
programs from adapting their curricula to the changing technological needs of
the production sectors. Engineering instruction tends therefore to be highly
theoretical with little relevance to the engineering skill needs of the labor
market. The result is that most engineering graduates, who should be
applications-oriented, have almost no practical knowledge of design and
applications technology, so that their value and potential contribution to the
development of the industrial sector is far less than it might otherwise be.
Engineering education, as presently conducted, is therefore inefficient in
terms of the value of output obtained from the total investment. The need for
extensive curriculum revision, staff development, industrial linkages, and
appropriate facilities and instructional equipment is critical.
1.16     During the past several years, a consensus has been building among
employers, academics and MOHE officials, around the need to reform engineering
studies with the purpose of improving their quality and industrial relevance.
In this context, the MOHE decided in 1988 to reorient engineering education to
meet more appropriately the needs of the Egyptian economy for engineers with
relevant knowledge and practical experience. The strategy defined by the
Ministry to improve the quality of training in engineering education includes
measures to decrease enrollments in existing faculties of engineering in order
to reduce overcrovding and measures to mobilize additional financial resources
to complement public funds. Admissions are already down from 5,800 in 1987 to
4,400 in September 1988. Faculties of engineering have introduced users'
charges for laboratory and computer classes which, though modest in amount,
mark a significant departure from past practice. To encourage the training of
engineering graduates with a more practical orientation and better aptitudes
for technological innovation, the Government has adopted a dual strategy. A
number of existing faculties of engineering will be upgraded to increase
practical experimentation in laboratories and give a more applied and
industrial emphasis. In addition, a two-year technical institute will be
turned into a Higher Institute of Technology (HIT) to train technologists in
disciplines not readily available at the university with a focus on the
acquisition and use of practical skills not normally developed in university
engineering programs. The HIT opened its doors in Benha in October 1988 witl
programs in production technology, industrial electronics and construction
technology. The proposed project would provide technical assistance and
equipment to support reforms in the existing faculties of engineering.
1.17     Quality of traininR in secondary and post-secondary technical
education. The high rate of population growth and unfavorable economic
developments since 1980 have made it increasingly difficult for the Government
to sustain past levels of education expenditures. As the Ministry has been
struggling to keep up with the quantitative needs of expansion, program
quality has deteriorated and serious problems have emerged ir many three-year
and five-year schools. The lack of adequate classroom and workshop space has
led to overcrowding and increased student-teacher ratios resulting in less
time spent on the practical content of the courses, particularly with the
introduction of double shifts in workshops. Opportunities for hands-on
experienee are also constrained by the lack of modern equipment and the low
budget for maintenance and consumables. There are few institutionalized



-7-
industrial contacts at the local level between MOE schools and companies, even
though the success of the special industry-linked schools is graphic
illustration of the potential strength of these links. Similar problems have
affected the two-year post-secondary technical institutes where the quality of
training varies considerably, depending on the availability of adequate
buildings and equipment. gut material difficulties due to insufficient
resources in a context of rapid expansion are not the only problem affecting
the quality of training in the technical schools and institutes. Equally
crucial is the supply and quality of teachers.
1.18      Teacher Shortages.  The training and recruitment of new technical
teachers has not kept pace with the rapid increase in student enrollments. As
a result, teacher shortages have become a pervasive feature of the entire
technical education system. Table 2 below illustrates the magnitude of these
shortages.
Table 1.2: TEACHER REQUIREMENTS, AVAILABILrIY AND SHORTAGE
Teacher    Staf/       Teachers    Teachers     Shortages  Shortage
Institute/School     Category   Student     Required     Available              Ratio
Ratio                   in Post
(1)          (2)          X3)     (3)/(11
Theory       30/1       1.003         177          826       82.3
Post-secondery       Workshop     20/1         676          181         495       73.2
Technical Institutes  Total                   1.679        3S8         1.321      t8.6
Theory      30/1          523         205          318       60.8
5-year Technical     Workshop     20/1         909         SS0          359       39.S
Schools      Total                    1.432         755          677       47.3
Theory       30/1         1SS          72           83       53.5
S-year Teacher       Workshop     20/1          330        196          134       40.6
Training Schools     Total                     485         268          217       44.7
Theory       30/1       7.036       2.25S        4.781       67.9
3-year Technical     Workshop     20/1        4.999      11,162       3.837       25.6
Schools      Total                   22.035      13.417        8.618       39.1
rheory      30/1        8.717       2.709        6.008       68.9
Total                Workshop     20/1        6.914      12.089       4.825       28.5
Total                   25.631      14,798      10,833       42.3
Source: HOE/NONE



For the technical education system as a whole, only 42.3% of the teachers
needed are actually available. Two thirds of the vacant teacher positions are
teachers of theory, which indicates that technical education has not been able
to attract unemployed engineers in substantial number, due to the lack of
adequate financial incentives. Even at the technician level, well-qualified
practice teachers can find, in the private sector and abroad, employment
opportunities which are financially more rewarding than teaching positions in
the public technical education system. In volume, the largest gap concerns
the three-year secondary technical schools where 22,000 teachers are needed,
compared to 13,400 currently employed. Schools and institutes are coping with
this situation by overloading existing teachers and increasing class size.
Both practices are detrimental to the quality of the training provided.
1.19     Projections of the supply and demand of technical teachers over the
next fifteen years, taking into account current shortages, clearly indicate
that continuing to rely exclusively on the faculties of education for the
production of theory teachers, and on the five-year schools to train workshop
instructors will lead to a further widening of the gap between needs and
recruitments. Assuming an annual growth of enrollments in technical education
of 4b, only half the teaching force required would be available by the year
2000 (Annex 4). Obviously, there is an urgent need to transform the present
training system to reduce the existing shortages.
1.20     Teacher Training Philosophy.  On the qualitative side, the current
practice of training technical teachers and employing them separately as
teachers of theory or teachers of practice is inappropriate. The existence of
two different categories of teachers giving instruction based on independently
developed curricula results in a lack of integration between theory and
practice. This leads to an inadequate understanding of relevance and
interrelationships between theory and practice; this compromises the students'
future ability to develop competency through on-the-job experience and to
adapt to changing technologies, industrial processes and equipment. In
addition, the theory/practice dichotomy is a source of inefficiency which
affects all aspects of the technical education system. Staff deployment and
timetabling within institutes and schools reflects strictly the segregation
between the two kinds of teachers. Supervision and inspection of teaching is
done independently for theory and practice by two separate categories of
inspectors. Similarly, professional growth and status are defined separately
for theory and practice teachers with a social bias in favor of theory
teachers. Even those graduates of the faculties of education who had been
previously trained as practical teachers are never used to teach practical
skills once they are identified as theory teachers.
1.21     Technical Education Reform.  The economic slowdown and the budgetary
difficulties of the MOE/MORE raise questions about the appropriateness of the
current expansion. The Egyptian authorities have recognized the need to
reform the technical education system and to implement a consolidatio.
strategy involving (i) re-defining the role of technical education on the
basis of a realistic assessment of present and future labor market needs and
the relative cost-effectiveness of different modes of delivery of vocational
education programs, and (ii) improving the quality of technical education by
providing better qualified teachers in sufficient numbers, reforming



-9-
curricula, and upgrading existing schools and institutes through better
facilities and more equipment. To implement this comprehensive strategy, the
MOE/MOHE would receive support from the African Development Bank/Fund to
finance modern equipment for the secondary technical schools and from the
World Bank to initiate a reform of technical teacher training. With respect
to the latter point, a strategy has been defined to train integrated technical
teachers of both theory and practical skills by merging the existing five-year
teacher training schools and university departments of industrial education
into new technical teacher training colleges called Industrial Education
Colleges (IECs). In addition to pre-service and in-service teacher training
services, the IECs would provide professional support for curriculum design
and development.
1.22     Management of the Technical Education System.  There is also a need
to improve the overall management of the technical education system. In
particular, the management of equipment procurement and maintenance activities
for the technical secondary schools and post-secondary institutes should be
strengthened. Given the volume of equipment expected to be purchased and
installed during the 1987-91 Plan period, a more efficient procurement
information system is required to provide the MOE and the MOHE with up-to-date
and accurate data on equipment needs, standard equipment lists, the status of
existing equipment, maintenance requirements and spare parts availability.
The African Development Bank project is expected to support the development of
a computerized equipment procurement system. A management information system
should also be put in place to ensure the collection, processing and analysis
of all the information needed for decision-making support in the technical
education system. This management information system would cover data needs
on inputs, outputs, internal and external efficiency, and costs of technical
education, including a depreciation and replacement scheme for instructional
equipment. The MOE has received a USAID grant to finance a feasibility study
of a general management information system for technical education.
1.23     Costs and Financing.  The Egyptian constitution provides for free
public education at all levels of study, including secondary technical
education and higher education. Under the pressure of a rapidly increasing
school-age population, current expenditures on primary and secondary education
have risen an average of 19.32 per year since 1978. Total expenditures on
education account for 4% of GDP and about 112 of total public spending. In
the last few years, secondary technical education has absorbed about 451 of
the MOE's total investment budget for basic and secondary education. As MOE
budgetary reports and financial accounts do not allow for a detailed analysis
of recurrent expenditures, it is unrortunately not possible to separate
expenditures for technical education from the overall budget in order to make
meaningful comparisons of trends. However, the 1988 World Bank sector study
revealed that funding for current expenditures in technical education has, for
the most part, been unable largely insufficient to meet the schools' and
institutes' requirements for consumables and equipment maintenance. This
finding is compatible with the results of a 1985 UNDP/World Bank study which
showed that the annual training cost in MOE 3-year industrial schools was
equivalent to US$149 compared to a cost of US$378 for PVTD training centers
where budget constraints are less severe..'
1/       Regional Review of Alternative Modes of Vocational Training and
Technical Education, World Bank, 1986.



- 10 -
1.24     The MOE has taken a series of measures to mobilize additional
resources to finance technical education. First, over the years, it has
developed close links with certain industries and established 14 "specialized
industrial schools" located within public companies which provide the
premises, equipment and consumable materials needed to run these schools.
Second, industrial and agricultural schools are encouraged to undertake paid
production work on behalf of outside clients. In 1987, the total value of
production in technical schools was 14 million Egyptian Pounds, which
represented approximately 252 of the capital expenditures for all secondary
technical schools during that year. Third, the MOE has gradually introduced
in the last few years the principle of direct financial contributions by
students in the form of examination fees and users charges for access to
specialized equipment such as computers.
StrateKy for Sector Development
1.25     Government Strategy.  In a 1987 document entitled 'Strategy for the
Development of Education in Egypt', the MOE called for an objective assessment
of the education system's weaknesses and outlined the main orientations of a
comprehensive reform program aimed at adapting education to the production
needs of the economy. Among the priorities adopted in the new education plan,
the development of engineering and technical education ranks highest as an
effective instrument for improving productivity and raising employment chances
of young graduates. The strategy envisaged includes measures to upgrade the
secondary technical schools and post-secondary institutes through more
qualified teachers and modernized curricula, more and better equipment and
instructional materials, and a plan to reform engineering education.
1.26     Bank Lending Strategy.  The Bank's lending strategy in Egypt is to
help the Government restore macroeconomic balance and promote sectoral growth
through economic reforms and increases in productivity supported by
improvements in the quality and supply of technical manpower. Bank
involvement in technical education, which is in line with the Government's
manpower development strategy, meets this objective. Bank assistance would
focus on improving the quality and relevance of the existing system of
technical and engineering education while strengthening its coherence and
restraining its growth.
1.27     In 1988, the Bank completed a comprehensive study of the Egyptian
technical education system which recommended implementation of a consolidation
strategy and identified the following priorities: reform of engineering
education to improve the quality and relevance of university engineering
programs; constrained growth of enrollments in technical education to reflect
present and future labor market needs and relative cost-effectiveness of
different modes of delivery of vocational education; mobilization of
additional financial resources to complement public funds; improvements in the
quality of technical education through integrated technical teacher education,
revised curricula, modernized equipment and upgraded facilities. The Bank's
future role in the education system would be to assist the Government in
addressing these priority areas. In this perspective, the proposed project
would help the MOE/MOHE improve the supply of engineering specialists to meet
the industry's changing technological requirements, reorient the development
of secondary and post-secondary



- 11 -
technical education, increase the supply of well-qualified technical teachers
needed to provide good quality training, and implement appropriate reforms in
the technical education system to provide a more efficient pedagogical
environment for new teachers.
1.28     Past Experience.  Three IDA credits and two IBRD loans have supported
the development of Egypt's education and training system since 1977.1' In
the light of the substantial support available for basic education through
USAID, the Bank agreed with the Government to focus its lending on
occupationally-oriented training programs for semi-skilled and skilled
workers, technicians, technical teachers and instructors. Achievements under
IDA and IBRD projects have included: (a) the establishment of 18 industrial
and agricultural post-secondary technical institutes; (b) the establishment
and upgrading of a variety of industrial training programs designed to improve
skilled worker training in key sectors including chemical industries,
electronic and electrical industries, and metal trades; (c) the establishment
of a countrywide network of 60 training centers to provide basic skills
training for the construction industry; and (d) the upgrading of
occupationally oriented basic skills training programs for primary school
dropouts. In addition, the projects have s-:pported teacher training programs
for primary and secondary schools and instructor training programs for
industrial vocational training schools. The capabilities of the ministries and
agencies providing technician and skilled manpower training, notably the MOE,
MOHE, MOA, MOSA, PVTD, TOMOHAR, EDA and EEA, have been considerably
strengthened through institution-building technical assistance in each of the
projects.
1.29     The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the First Education
Project (Credit 681-EGT) states that the Project was "successfully
implemented... and provided the basis for a series of interconnected follow-up
projects designed to strengthen and expand the skilled manpower supply in
Egypt." The PPAR also noted an inadequate supply of qualified instructors,
and this issue was addressed in subsequent projects. The Project Completion
Report on the Second Education Project (Credit 868-EGT) concluded that "this
was a major project, which, despite the extensive changes in project
composition and in funding allocations, was generally well implemented.
Quality improvements in industrial training will follow from the availability
of improved physical facilities, from the new curricula, teaching
methodologies and equipment, and from the anticipated supply of better
qualified teachers for the technician training institutes. The project has
also resulted in an enhanced capability within the project agencies for
project formulation and management and for equipment procurement and
curriculum development." The Project Completion Report on the Third Education
Project (Credit 1069-EGT) indicated that the main objectives of the project
were successively achieved. Curriculum reform was carried out, teaching
methods were improved and systematic assessment techniques were introduced.
1/       (a) Credit 681-EGT, approved in 1977 for US$25.0 million, completed
in 1980; (b) Credit 868-EGT, approved in 1978 for US$40.0 million,
completed in 1985; (c) Credit 1069-EGT, approved in 1980 for US$40.1
million equivalent, completed in 1988; (d) Loan 2264-EGT, approved in
1984 for US$38.0 million, under implementation; and (e) Loan
2594-EGT, approved in 1985 for US$19.3 million, under implementatioit.



- 12 -
This has resulted in an improvement in the quality of education and training
provided by the project institutions due to the better preparation of teachers
and instructors and improvement in curricula and equipment. The report also
noted a significant increase in the quantity and quality of skilled and
semi-skilled workers trained. The lessons learned from the three education
projects have been taken into account in the proposed project, in particular
in the utilization and rehabilitation of existing premises whenever possible
to avoid new construction anid related delays, in the decision to have a single
implementation agency, and in the flexibility introduced in the implementation
of technical assistance. Implementation of the Third Vocational Training
Project (Ln 2264-EGT) and the Vocational Training (Electricity) Project
(Ln 2594-EGT) is proceeding satisfactorily.
IL TEM PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government following a Bank
identification mission in June 1988. The Bank reached broad agreement with
the Government on the scope and content of the prnject and related policy
measures during a preparation mission in September 1988, a subsequent pre-
appraisal mission in December 1988, and an appraisal in March 1989.
Projet Obiectives and Scope
2.02     The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to improve the quality and occupational relevance of university
engineering education; and
(b) to improve the quality of secondary and post-secondary technical
education by supporting the development of a new, more appropriate
type of technical teacher education program which, in the long-term,
would enable meeting increasing demands for well-qualified technical
teachers.
2.03     To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise the following
components:
(a)  an Enginieering Education Development Program providing upgrading of
facilities, laboratory equipment, instructional materials, and
technical assistance to move existing university engineering
faculties toward a more applied orientation through stronger linkages
with industry, more relevant curricula and better qualified teaching
staff; and
(b)  a Technical Teacher Education Program providing instructional
equipment and technical assistance to initiate a -iew and reformed
system for the professional preparation of high quality
theory-cum-practice teachers to serve the secondary and
post-secondary technical schools and institutes by establishing two
new technical teacher training colleges.



- 13 -
Proet Design and Desciption
2.04     The Engineering Education Development component would be implemented
as a sub-sector investment project using a "program" approach. Sub-project
proposals would be reviewed and selected under the authority of an
intermediary agency by a duly appointed Assessment Committee on the basis of
evaluative criteria agreed upon by the Bank and Government. The Technical
Teacher Education component would be implemented as a traditional project in
that it would focus on the development of two specific teacher training
colleges for which some construction has already been completed.
The Engineering Education Development Program (US$15.6 mfiion total base cost)
2.05     This program would support the upgrading, strengthening, and
re-design of programs in existing university faculties of engineering to
improve the quality and occupational relevance of engineering education and
the job prospects of graduates. Ultimately, these improvements will benefit
the productive sectors in which graduate enginers are employed. Faculties
would be encouraged under the program to upgrade their academic curricula, as
well as teaching staff and laboratory instruction programs, to establish and
maintain strong linkages with industry, and to give existing programs a more
applied engineering orientation consistent with the current and evolving needs
of industry. In this "program" approach, individual faculties would be
selected to participate on a sub-project basis through a competitive proposal
process involving open review and assessment (with peer group involvement) and
subsequent funding of acceptable institutional proposals. Sub-projects would
provide for implementing new or modified engineering program initiatives
and/or upgrading, developing, and making more relevant existing programs in
traditional engineering areas.
2.06     The sub-project proposal process referred to above is especially
appropriate in that: (a) it would encourage institution administrators and
faculty members to put their best efforts into identifying significant needs
within the sector, defining a developmental response strategy for the
institution, and spelling out a systematic and coherent program of action to
be judged openly by professional peers from other institutions; (b) it would
be an efficient approach to institutional development as it places
responsibility for program planning and implementation on the individual
participating faculties while retaining reasonable central control of general
policy and decision making; (c) it would promote institution building by
ensuring that relevant outputs (curricula, educational technology, computer
software, instructional materials, etc.) are developed within the system, with
outside professional assistance as necessary, and made available to other
institutions in the system; and (d) it would encourage and enable relatively
quick sub-project preparation and implementation and subsequent disbursement
of loan proceeds as faculties of engineering would be competing for limited
funds.



- 14 -
2.07     Loan support for engineering education development under this
proposed program would include provisions for:
(a) upgrading and/or expanding existing facilities (classrooms and
laboratories);
(b)  procurement and commissioning of laboratory equipment;
(c)  supply of instructional materials, including textbooks and library
resources;
(d)  academic fellowships and industrial attachments for staff upgrading
(both teaching and technical support staff);
(e)  consultants and visiting professors (subject specialists as well as
engineering education specialists) as required for the in-country
development of staff, curriculum and materials;
(f)  incentives to encourage more active participation by faculty members
in institutional teaching, research and service;
(g)  support for applied research in educational technology and
methodology and for short-term faculty development seminars to
disseminate the research results; and
(h)  support for twinning arrangements with similar institutions (both in
Egypt and abroad).
2.08     The proposed development program would be organized around three
general action areas or sub-programs: (a) Specialized Engineering Program
Development, (b) Project Preparation Assistance Services, and (c) Equipment
and Facilities Maintenance.
2.09     Specialized Engineering Program Development.  This sub-program would
support new and innovative institutional responses to evolving industrial
needs for qualified engineering manpower. It would also focus on meeting
current needs more effectively through improvements in traditional programs.
Various projects might include (i) academic programs designed to accommodate
emerging fields of engineering; (ii) interdisciplinary programs combining
knowledge and skills from two or more traditional engineering areas; (iii)
programs to upgrade engineers currently employed in industry and/or unemployed
graduate engineers whose talents need to be incorporated into the professional
workforce. Annexes 5 and 6 present the suggested content of a typical
sub-project proposal and evaluation criteria for the comparison and selection
of sub-projects proposals.
2.10     In addition to support for the specialized engineering programs
described above, the project would assist selected universities in updating
their engineering laboratory equipment for the basic physical sciences
(mathematics, physics and chemistry) and the standard engineering sciences
(materials and processes, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, electricity/
electronics. and computer applications). Engineering faculties wishing to
participate in this sub-program would submit detailed proposals documenting
their basic equipment needs, justifying their specific requests based on a



- 15 -
sound strategy for engineering education development, and satisfactorily
meeting the additional conditions specified in Annex 7. Such proposals would
need to provide clear and convincing evidence of the faculty's desire and
willingness to take the necessary measures for upgrading and re-orienting
curricula, instructional materials and methodology, and teaching staff to
academic standards to be established by a Basic and Engineering Sciences
Committee, the membership of which would be nominated by the Supreme Council
of Universities Committee for Engineering Education and appointed by the SCU
Chairman (Annex 7). The Basic and Engineering Science Committee would be a
working group operating under direction of the EEDP coordinator.
2.11     Proiect Preparation Assistance Services.  This sub-program would
provide a mechanism for assisting individual faculties in preparing project
proposals for submission under the program, especially those faculties which
have less exper .- se in project formulation and international cooperation.
Such assistance .odld include the collection and provision of resource
materials, proposal review and critique, and, in some cases, funds for
professional consultants to help identify industrial needs and institutional
strengths and to develop a conceptional base for an appropriate project
proposal. This project preparation facility is described in Annex 8.
2.12     Maintenance Program for Equipment and Physical Infrastructure.
Provision would be made in this sub-program to assist in initiating a special
fund for maintenance and repair of instructional facilities and equipment in
the engineering faculties. Funds would be made available under the project to
train maintenance coordinators and technicians and to help establish in
participating institutions a maintenance account to support the upkeep and
repair of instructional equipment (Annex 9). Any sub-project involving the
purchase of new laboratory equipment would be required tce include as well
provisions for setting-up a maintenance program in the concerned faculty. The
maintenance account would be established with project funds at a level equal
to about 5S of equipment costs. The Bank would finance maintenance accounts
during the first two years of implementation of sub-projects. During the
following years, the concerned institutions would maintain the original level
(plus a reasonable annual increase to compensate for inflation) from their own
budget or from other sources, e.g., a percentage of receipts from
institutional contracts with industry, laboratory users' fees, etc. The
maintenance account and equipment upkeep program would be continued on a
permanent basis. The maintenance account would be audited along with other
project accounts.
2.13     Technical Assistance.  This component would include the provision of
specialist services for the following items: (a) sub-project preparation
assistance (57 man-months); (b) maintenance program (57 man-months); and (c)
sub-projects of individual engineering faculties (376 man-months). The
component would also include 774 man-months of overseas fellowships for
training as specified and approved for individual sub-projects. Annex 10
presents a detailed outline of technical assistance activities for the EEDP.
Tehnical Teacher Education Development (US$16.2 milion total base cost)
2.14     The overall objective of the technical teacher education component
would be to initiate a long-term reform of the technical education system in
Egypt. The first stage of this process would be the establishment of an



- 16 -
appropriate institutional framework for the development of a new type of
technical teacher education program. The specific objectives of this
component would be (i) integrating theory and practical teaching, merging the
roles of the existing instructors and teachers into a new type of teachers
with instructional competence in both theory and practice, (ii) improving
teaching methods in technical education, (iii) improving curric l-tm
development methodology and procedures, (iv) developing and producing high
quality instructional materials to support teacher training and teaching of
technical subjects, and (v) increasing the supply of technical teachers to
meet the needs of technical education on a continuing basis. Given the need
to build up a core group of suitably experienced and qualified teacher
trainers and the need to address the transition issues raised by the
introduction of the new type of technical teachers, the project would
correspond to the initial phase of the reform, concentrating on
institution-building and staff development operations to prepare a sound basis
for future qualitative and quantitative development. As transition problems
were solved, the number of technical teachers under training would be
increased, and additional funds would be made available for this development.
During this first phase, the Ministry of Education would reassess the nature,
future role and emphasis of technical education in relation to general
education and other modes of training, and formulate a long-term plan for
technical education development which would set the framework for future Bank
lending.
2.15     To achieve these objectives, the project would support the
establishment of two new technical teacher training colleges designed to
integrate the functions of the existing five-year teacher training schools and
university departments of industrial education. These colleges, which have
been established under the name Industrial Education Colleges (IECs), would be
primarily responsible for pre-service and in-service teacher training to serve
initially the MOE technical schools (three-and five-year schools), and
subsequently the two-year post-secondary technical institutes as well. In
addition to their main role of technical teacher preparation, the Colleges
would offer programs in institutional management and pedagogy for the
professional development of administrators and inspectors of technical
education, provide professional support for curriculum design, development and
evaluation, develop and produce instructional materials, and maintain
effective linkages with industry for the transfer of industrial advances into
technical teaching and for the training of IEC students in industry.  Wh-le it
is envisaged that the IEC network would eventually include three to four
regional colleges to achieve an appropriate geographical distribution and the
needed training capacity, the project would only support the establishment of
two IECs: one in Kubba (Cairo) and one in Beni-Suef (Upper-Egypt).
2.16     For their pre-service training program, the IECs wouid carefully
select entrants from the graduates of the three-and five-year technical
schools, including the instructor training schools during the transitory phase
of the reform, and the post-secondary institutes. Admission would be by
competitive examination involving aptitude tests (verbal, numerical and
problem-solving skills) interviews, standardized tests measuring inclinations
for teaching, and practical tests to assess technical s:ills. The main
source of entrants would be from the five-year schools and the students would
follow a three-year course. The IECs would also offer a three-semester
program for university graduates in engineering, industrial education or
applied arts. The curriculum would be designed to equip potential teachers



- 17 -
with the requisite knowledge and skills in both subject specialty and pedagogy
and to develop appropriate attitudes for the effective teaching of both theory
and practice. Flexibility would be introduced to accommodate the diversity of
levels and categories of entrants. Upon successful completion of the course,
the students would be awarded a Bachelor's degree in Technical Teaching by the
Ministry of Higher Education. The specifics of the in-service training
program (entry requirements, duration, curriculum, regulation for release of
existing secondary technical teachers) would be defined after preparation of a
need-based program to be agreed jointly by the Government and the Bank. Once
the supply of teacher trainers is adequate, the combined annual intake to the
Kubba and Beni-Suef Colleges would be about 550 pre-service students and 420
serving technical teachers (Annex 11). The first stage of development of the
IECs would focus on bringing about qualitative changes in the technical
teacher preparation system, the annual output of approximately 500 new
teachers and 400 upgraded teachers would not be sufficient to meet the total
demand for new teachers. The establishment of other regional colleges to
increase the supply of technical teachers would be considered after the new
program has become fully operational and evaluated. Additional colleges, if
required, might be supported by a follow-up project.
2.17     A crucial factor in the implementation of the technical teacher
training component would be the timely appointment of adequately qualified and
experienced technical teacher trainers who could be recruited from the
following sources (i) degree holders, (ii) university engineering graduates,
(iii) faculty of education staff, (iv) ex-military instructors; and (v)
existing teachers and instructors In vocational schools and post-secondary
technical institutions.  F   all categories of appointees, substantial
relevant teaching experien l would ,e imperative. As this type of integrated
teaching of theory and practice has not been implemented in Egypt before, it
is anticipated that in all of the above cases extensive retraining, including
overseas training, would be necessary. More attention would need to be given
to the training of theory teachers in practical skills than to the converse,
as technical trade subject teachers in secondary vocational schools will not
need a high level of theoretical knowledge. In view of this constraint, staff
for the IECs would be selected with an emphasis on wide experience in
practical skills rather than merely theoretical knowledge which can be
upgraded during training.  Academic qualifications would be essential, but all
candidates must have wide practical experience of the relevant trade skills in
industry, faculties of engineering, or technical schools and institutes.  To
fully utilize the previous training of existing teachers in the five-year
schools and post-secondary institutions, a high proportion of staff for the
IECs should be selected from this cadre and retrained by in-service courses
and overseas fellowships for obtention of an appropriate degree. In addition,
existing theory teach3rs could be selected and given extensive skill training
in specified trades. The staff appointed to the IECs would be upgraded by
means of in-service training to meet particular job specification. This
training would be implemented in two stages: (i) upgrading of theory or
practical skills; and (ii) overseas fellowship training in the methodology of
integrated technical teacher training. Incentives will need to be offered to
staff trainers at the IECs to guarantee retention. The Government would
provide assurances that a system of remuneration and staff conditions similar
to that used at the Benha Higher Institute of Technology would be implemented
by June 1990.



- 18 -
2.18     To support the development of high quality teacher education courses
at the IECs with experienced and qualified teacher trainers and a suitably
designed curriculum focusing on broadening subject expertise and enhancing
teaching methodology skills, the project would provide 238 man-months of
specialists services. These specialists would help design, teach and evaluate
the programs, including modernizing curricula, preparing teaching aids and
support materials, and developing improved assessment systems, and educational
management training; 625 man-months of fellowship training in specific skill
areas of pedagogy and curriculum development would also be included. Details
of the fellowships and specialists services program for the IECs are given in
Annex 12. The project would also finance civil works to refurbish and upgrade
existing facilities at Kubbe and Beni-Suef and provide instructional equipment
for skills upgrading and teacher training.
2.19     Implementation of the technical teacher reform would involve a series
of interrelated policy measures and transition arrangements requiring careful
programming and phasing. An action plan has been prepared and agreed upon for
that purpose (Annex 13). At negotiations, the Government would provide
assurances that it would follow the steps outlined in the action plan by
preparing detailed plans and programs and implementing the measures and
recommendations needed to carry out the proposed technical teacher reform.
Five activities are of particular importance in this sequence: (i) the review
of the technical secondary schools' curricula and the preparation of a
technical teachers training plan linking the development of the IEC curriculum
to the demand for technical teachers by areas of specialization on the basis
of estimates of the needs of the economy for technical education graduates;
(ii) the preparation of a staffing and recruitment plan for the IECs,
reflecting the specific skills required to give technical teachers the ability
to impart practical skills in both subject areas and pedagogy; (iii) the
preparation of a plan for in-service training, at the IECs, of existing
teachers in technical secondary schools; (iv) the preparation of a transition
plan to guide the transformation of the existing MOE teacher training schools
and university departments of industrial education and their integration with
the IECs; and (v) the preparation of a plan for integration of the roles of
theory teachers and workshop instructors, including inspection and evaluation,
and for deploying the new teachers. In this connection, it would be necessary
to determine the characteristics of effective technical schools for which the
new teachers would be trained.
mL PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Projeet Costs
3.01     Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at .LE 148.1
million or US$38.6 million equivalent, for the project components shown in
Table 3.1. A sulmmary of project costs by category of expenditures is shown in
Table 3.2. Details of project costs are shown in Annex 14. These costs
include la,oratory equipment, instructional materials, and technical
assistance (fellowships and specialist services), as well as
Government-financed expenditures for in-service training, renovation of
existing buildings and provision of furniture.



- 19 -
Table 3,1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
(LE 1illion)                    (U1s$ millin)
X Total                          X Total
X foreign  asse                  X Foreign Base
Local Forelgn Total Exchange Costs Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
A. Enaineerine Education flevelomnent Proaran
Speciali1ed Engineering Program Development    4.8  29.4  34.2    66    44  2.0    12.1 14.1    86    44
Project Preparation Assistance Services    0.5   1.4   1.9    74      2  0.2       0.6  0.8    74       2
Equipment and Physical Infrastructure Naint.    0.9   0.9   1.7    50  2  0.4      0.4  0.7    SO       2
Sub-Total Engineering Education Development Prog.  6.1  31.7  37.8    84    49  2.5    13.1 15.6    84    49
S. Celle.e for Technical Teachers
Kubba Institute                            6.0  13.5  19.4    69    25  2.5        5.5  8.0    69    25
Beni-Suef Institute                        A.4  13.5  19.9    68    26  2.7        5.6  8.2    68    26
i_u-Total College for Technical Teachers    12.4  26.9  39.4    68    51  5.1    11.1 16.2    68    51
Total Baseline Costs                        18.5  58.6  77.2    76   10o  7.6    24.2 31.8    76   100
Physical Continsencies                     1.9   5.9   7.7    76    10  0.8        2.4  3.2    76    l1
Price Contingencies                        9.5  53.7  63.2    65    82 -0.4        3.9  3.5   100    11
Total Project Costs                         29.9 118.2 148.1    60   192  8.0    30.5 38.6    79   121
=_==   _   ==z ==== azz=  8__= Za----- 888X  =88_8z   =8==_-
3.02       Basis of Cost Estimates.  Civil works costs reflect estimates
prepared jointly by MOHE and the Bank on the basis of (a) surveys of existing
facilities, (b) designs for the proposed modifications and upgrading, (c)
schedules of rehabilitation, and (d) current unit costs of construction
(US$325/m2 for new construction; US$150/m2 and US$2701m2, respectively, for
alterations at Kubba and Beni-Suef). Furniture costs are based on existing,
priced furniture lists and amount to about US$250 per student place.
Equipment costs have been estimated on the basis of preliminary lists for the
proposed specialties at the IECs, using current c.i.f. prices. Technical
assistance costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable technical assistance in the region. Local in-service training
costs reflect actual training costs in Egypt. Base costs estimates reflect
prices as projected for the time of negotiations (August 1989).



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSrS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDtTUES
(LE Niilon)                      (us$ million)
I Total                          I Total
x Fri    _O                        Foreign  sa8
Local Foeign Total Exchange Costs  Loal Foreign Total Exdne Costs
I. , 
A. IfurbishMnh             6.1    4.4  12.5   25       16   2.3    1.5  5.2        so   16
B. Eqauipt                 4.2   35.0  42.2    0       55   1.7   15.7  17.4       90    5
C. instruction 1alwials    0.4    3.3  3.7   go         5   0.2    1.4  1.5        90    6
0. Fellohips               -       7.7  7.7  100       10    -      3.2  3.2    lO0   10
E. Specialists             1.9    4.9  6.8   72         9    0.8    2.0  2.5       72    9
F. In - Service Trsining   3.1     -    3.1     -       4    1.3    -    1.l       -    4
Total Investant Costs         17.7   sa.3  76.0    n      90   7.2   24.0  31.3       77   96
Physical Contingencies     1.8    5.8  7.6    7        1o   0.7    2.4  3.1        7    10
Price Continncies          9.0   52.4  62.4   86    as   0.4    3.9  3.5    1O0    11
,--  .3 ---  --   --    -     --      -- -W -- ---W-  ----
Total Znclutlng Contt IngPies  28.5  tt2.5 14.9   S0    189   7.7   30.3  380         80  1l9
0.5    0.4  1.2   s0        2   0.4    0.2   0.5       30    2
A. Maine                   ----- -------    --- -           -- --------- ----
Total Reurrent Costs           0.8    0.4  1.2   so        2   0.4    0.2  0.5        30    2
Phsical Continge1nces      0.1    0.0  0.1   30         0    0.0    0.0  0.1       25    0
Price Continsoenies        0.5    0.3  0.5   40         1   -0.0   .0.0   0.0    t00    0
Totil Inluding Continenes      1.4     .27  2.1   24       3   0.4    0.2  0.6        3      2
-oso  =31u.m  u.m  ttauU    e== ,l=, 33333333-   3m  3333333 33333
Total meline Costs            18.5   58.6  ".2   76    1O0   7.6   24.2  31.5         76  100
Physical Contigencioes     1.9    5.9  7.7   76        10   0.5    2.4  2.2        76   10
Price Contingeces          9.5   53.7  63.2     5      52  -0.4    3.9  3.5    100   11
Total Projet Cots             29.9  115.2 146.1   80    192   5.0   30.5   .6              12
3.03      Unit Costs and Areas per Student.  Area allocations for academic
teaching and laboratory work and costs of construction/renovation per student
for the Kubba and Beni-Suef campuses, which are shown in Annex 15, are
reasonable in comparison with those of other Bank-financed teacher training
institutions of this type.
3.04      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated 2.4
million Egyptian Pounds in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and
furniture. Equipment, goods and services imported directly for use by
Government ministries are exempt from duties.
3.05      Contin&ency Allowances.   Project costs include a contingency
allowance of US$3.2 million for unforeseen physical additions (10% of the
estimated cost of all items). Price contingencies between negotiations
(August 1989) and the end of project implementation are estimated at US$3.5 lillion



- 21 -
equivalent, or 10.32 of base costs plus physical contingencies. Total
contingencies represent 212 of the base cost. Annual rates of price
variations have been applied as indicated in Table 3.3 and likely adjustments
of the rate of exchange have been taken into consideration.
Table 3.3: PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION
Annual Price Escalation (%)
Type of Costs          1990      1991      1992       1993       1994       1995
Local Costs             17.0     15.0      12.0        10.0      8.0         7.0
Foreign Costs           4.1       4.1       4.1         4.1      4.1         4.1
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) civil works and furniture - 35%; (b) equipment and
instructional materials - 90%, (c) in-service training - 02; (d) fellowships -
902; (e) specialist services - 722, taking into consideration the proposed
plan to use local consultants for a significant share of the technical
assistance; and (f) equipment and facilities maintenance - 302. These
percentages have been determined by: (a) calculating the indirect foreign
exchange component of civil works and fturniture; (b) assuming that all
equipment and instructional materials would be imported; and (c) estimating
that all fellowships would be for training abroad. The resulting foreign
exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated at US$37.6 million,
or about 81% of total project costs.
3.07     Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project, additional recurrent
costs would be minimal. For the engineering education development program,
incremental recurrent expenditures would be limited to laboratory equipment
and facilities maintenance and would be self-financed through the revolving
maintenance fund established by the project. The transformation of the Kubba
school into an IEC would entail an increase in recurrent expenditures of about
370,000 Egyptian Pounds, which amounts to only 0.03% of the total MOE
recurrent budget. Government assurances would be obtained during negotiations
that adequate budgetary allocation would be made to fund the IECs in line with
the estimates in Annex 15.
Prject Fcin
3.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$30.5 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project. The Government would finance the balance
of project costs. Project financing would be in accordance with Table 3.4.



- 22 -
Table 3.4: FINANCING PLAN
Category of expenditure         US$ Million           Estimated Financing (X)
Gov't   Bank            Total   Gov't  Bank
Refurbishing                    5.1     0.0             5.1  100.0    0.0
Equipment                       0.3    19.6            19.9    1.4   98.6
Instructional Materials        0.1      1.7             1.8    5.0   95.0
Fellowships                     0.2     3.5             3.7    5.0   95.0
Specialists                     0.2     2.9             3.1    5.0   95.0
In-Service Training             1.3     0.0             1.3  100.0    0.0
Maintenance                     0.3     0.3             0.6   50.0   50.0
Unallocated                     0.7     2.4             3.1   20.0   80.0
Total                           8.1    30.5            38.6   21.2   78.8
ProJect Management and Implementation
3.09     Management Structure.  The project would be managed by two
coordinators, one for each component. To implement his respective component,
each project coordinator would draw upon the services of new Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Higher Education. During
negotiations, the Government agreed that the establishment of this new PIU
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 5.01).
3.10     The Engineering Education Development Program (EEDP) would be
administered by a project coordinator with suitable qualifications and
authority, designated by the Minister of Higher Education. He would have
management responsibility for normal program implementation, which would
include solicitation of sub-project proposals, supervision of their
evaluation, and coordination of TA and equipment procurement using the
services of the PIU (para. 3.12). He would also be responsible for
administering the project preparation assistance service to assist engineering
faculties in the preparation of proposals for the EEDP, and assisting in the
initiation and support of a special maintenance program to help ensure
continued up-keep of physical facilities and equipment in each participating



- 23 -
institution. An Engineering Education Program Group (EEPG) would be formed to
act as an executive committee with delegated responsibility for program
development, supervision and evaluation under the guidelines agreed with the
Bank. The EEPG would prepare policies for general operation and management of
the development program and provide first line review and support of program
management. The EEPG, which would be chaired by the Project Coordinator,
would comprise four representatives from the faculties of engineering (each
from a different faculty and different engineering specialization and each
experienced in project administration), two representatives from industry, one
person from the Supreme Council Committee for Engineering Education, and two
persons representing the Ministry of Higher Education. In addition, an
International Advisory Committee would be established to review program
policies, procedures, and outcomes and, on this basis, to advise program
implementation and management personnel on achieving and maintaining quality
and occupational relevance in engineering education consistent with
international standards. The committee would have two Egyptian specialists
and five foreign specialists selected from two industrialized countries and
three industrializing countries which have shown outstanding developmental
success in the area of engineering education.
3.11     The Technical Teachers Training component would be administered by a
project coordinator with suitable qualifications and authority, designated by
the Minister of Higher Education to coordinate program implementation support
services from the Government side. As project manager for that component, he
would initiate and control implementation of the new IEC programs, ensure the
development of the new curricutlum, and be responsible for the general
operation and management of tie entire IEC program.  The Dean of each IEC
would receize guidance from a Bcard of Management with representatives from
the MOHE, the MOE, industry, the IEC staff and possibly one or two educators
from universiLy raculties of education. During negotiations, the Government
provided assuranc:es (-T) that it would establish the Board of Management of the
Kubba IEC by May 1990 and the Board of Management of the Beni-Suef College by
October 1990; and (b) that there would be adequate representation from the
Ministry of Education to ensure effective coordination between IEC nanagement
and the MOE Departw1ent of Technical Education.
3.12     Implementation of the Pr.iect.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
would be staffed by specialists in financiel accounting, equipment
procurement, technical assistance coordination and procurement; secretarial
support staff woui- bt provided as required. The PIU would be responsible for
(a) keeping project accounts and preparing progress reports; (b) coordinating
bid document preparation. oi2 1-n-itation, bid evaluation and contract awards;
equipment lists and specifications, supervising the execution of equipment
contracts, certification of payments, inspection, warehousing, delivery to
faculties of engineering and IEC campuses, installation, commissioning and
settlements of claims; and (c) coordinating administrative aspects of
technical assistance activities. The General Directorate for Physical
Planning (GDPP) in the Ministry of Higher Education would be responsible for
preparing design changes and schedules of refurbishing and for monitoring
civil works programs and budget requests for renovation of the Kubba school
and for completion of the Beni-Suef facilities. The GDPP would also prepare
equipment layouts and arrange for the necessary modifications to eilsting
structures.



- 24 -
3.13    Site Acquisition.  All project items would be housed in existing
facilities. Consequently there is no need to acquire sites.
3.14    Maintenance.  The maintenance of buildings and laboratory equipment
is a serious problem because of low budget allocations (e.g. 800 Egyptian
Pounds annually for the Kubba Teacher Training School) and inadequate
maintenance planning procedures. The project would address this issue by
establishing a maintenance fund for the existing faculties of engineering
under the arrangements described in para. 2.12. The Government provided
assurances that the IECs would receive an appropriate maintenance budget line,
defined in Annex 17, and the project would finance six man-months of
maintenance technician training for the technical teacher component.
Procuremenk
3.15    The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table
3.5 below. Invitations to bid on equipment would be grouped as much as
possible to form bidding packages attractive to suppliers, the contents of
which could typically be provided by one supplier. About 901 of the equipment
and a portion of the instructional materials, suitable for International
Competitive Bidding (Ir,B), would be procured in accordance with the Bank
"Guidelines for  Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 1985),
and would account for about 861 of the total value of the Bank financed supply
contracts. All contracts awarded through ICB would be subject to prior review
by the Bank.
Table 3.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
======= US$ Million
Procurement Method
_______________________    _-    -   Total
Project Element                    ICB               Other           Cost
Refurbishment (inclvding furniture)    0.0               5.5              5.5
(0.0)            (0.0)           (0.0)
Equipment                              19.7              2.2            21.9
(19.3)            (2.1)          (21.3)
Instructional Materials                1.0               0.9             1.9
(1.0)            (0.8)           (1.8)
Fellowships                             0.0              9.0             4q .
(0.0)            (3.8)           (3.8)
Specialists                            0.0               3.3             3.3
(0.0)            (3.3)           (3.3)
In-Service Training                    0.0               1.4             1.4
(0.0)            (0.0)            (1.0)
Maintenance                             0.0              0.6              0.6
(0.0)            (0.3)           (0.3)
Total b/                               20.7             17.9             38.6
(20.3)           (10.2)           (30.5)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the re. pective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
b/   Figures. may tlot add up due to rounding.



- 25 -
3.16     The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Because of the need to rapidly and smoothly implement the transition
phase of Kubba, refurbishing of the first IEC (US$1.4 million) would
be carried out through direct contracting by appointing a suitably
qualified contract manager with agreed schedules of rates reflecting
prevailing construction prices for government educational buildings.
Contracts for the completion of the Beni-Suef campus (US$2.1
million), and for the renovation of laboratories in the faculties of
engineering (US$1.1 million), to be financed from the borrower's own
resources, would be awarded under local bidding procedures in an
economical and efficient manner;
(b) The provision of furniture for the IECs (US$0.9 million), to be
financed from the borrower's own resources, would be carried out on
force account by MOE technical schools and institutes with production
workshops out of the Government's budget;
(c) Contracts for individual equipment estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent, which would not be expected to interest
foreign suppliers, would be purchased through shopping procedures, on
the basis of a minimum of three quotations. The aggregate value of
such contracts would not exceed US$ 2.2 million; and
(d) The acquisition of technical books and video training films, and the
payment of royalties and copyrights, estimated to cost less than
US$0.9 million in the aggregate, would be done through sole source
procurement and contracts with publishers and manufacturers.
3.17     In the comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin equal to 15% or
the existing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. Under ICB procedures,
invitations to bid and the proposed award of contracts would be reviewed by
the Bank prior to final award decisions. It is estimated that this review
would cover about 86% of the value of all bank financed supply contracts and
100% of the contracts for consultancy and training. The remaining 14%
contracts would be subject to selective post award reviews.
3.18     Technical Assistance.  To simplify management of technical assistance
for the technical teacher education component, the IECs would obtain
specialist services and fellowships as comprehensive TA contracts. At least
three relevant training institutions would be requested to submit proposals,
following the preparation of shortlists of educational institutions acceptable
to the Bank. Consultants for the engineering education component would, in
most cases, be selected on an individual basis to meet the needs of specific
sub-projects. All consultants would be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency." During negotiations, the Government would provide assurances that
arrangements for the recruitment of consultants and for fellowship training
for the proposed project would be made in accordance with the schedule shown
in Annex 18.



- 26 -
3.19     Status of Preparation and Implementation Period.  This project is in
a state of preparation that would permit timely implementation because: (a)
the construction of buildings (a source of delay in the past) would be limited
to refurbishment of existing facilities and the completion of facilities
already under construction (in Beni-Suef); (b) generic equipment lists have
been completed and checked by an independent equipment expert; and (c) the TA
package has been fully defined and draft terms of reference have been
prepared. Project completion would be December 31, 1995, and the Closing Date
would be June 30, 1996.
3.20     Supervision Requirements.  Supervision of the EEDP component, which
would be carried out jointly by the EEMG and the Bank, would concentrate on
monitoring the extent to which the content and operational arrangements for
the various sub-programs and sub-projects are consistent with agreements
reached during preparation and appraisal. An initial and crucial supervision
mission would take place during the final stages of appraisal by the EEMG of
the first group of sub-projects in order to review the evaluation process and
address any issue which may arise. Annual supervision missions would be
scheduled thereafter. Regular on-site supervision of sub-project
implementation would be the responsibility of the EEMG. A midterm review
would be conducted jointly by the EEMG and the Bank to evaluate the
effectiveness and impact of the EEDP and assess emerging needs for
adjustment. Given the technical nature of EEMG activities, supervision
missions for that component would typically involve outside expert
consultants, as well as Bank staff.
3.21     Supervision missions for the technical teacher training component
would be scheduled to coincide with the completion of key-activities in the
reform implementation action-plan to ensure that the development of the new
teacher training program and the establishment of the IECs are carried out
according to the objectives and timing agreed to with the Bank.
Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
3.22     Disbursements.  The proposed project would be disbursed over a period
of about six years (Schedule 19). The proposed disbursement period,
which is one year shorter than the Bank disbursement profile for education
projects in Egypt, is judged feasible because of the limited amount of civil
works in the project and because of the keen interest of the faculties of
engineering to take advantage rapidly of the funds which would be available
under the engineering education development program. Disbursements would be
made against:
(a) equipment and instructional materials: (i) 1001 of foreign
expenditures for directly imported items; (ii) 100% of ex-factory
expenditures for locally manufactured items procured under ICB; and
(iii) 802 of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b) 1002 of the total expenditures for specialist services and
fellowships; and
(c) 502 of the total expenditures involved in the operation of the
facilities and laboratories maintenance fund in the faculties of
engineering.



- 27 -
3.23     Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place on an
average of about six months after incurring the expenditure. A disbursement
schedule and profile, reflecting this and making a comparison with the Bank
country-wide disbursement profile for Egypt, are shown in Annex 19.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
3.24     Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for examination by Bank missions.
3.25     Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US$ at the Central Bank of
Egypt to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit of US$2.5 million
equivalent to a four-month average Bank disbursement. The Special Account
would be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account falls below an amount equal to 50% or less of the amount of the
Special Account. Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate
documentation.
3.26     Accounts and Audits.  The Projects Implementation Unit would maintain
separate accounts for the project and would prepare, at the end of each
semester, a progress report including a detailed statement reflecting project
expenditures during the period and projected expenditures for the following
semester. Project accounts, including the Special Account and the Maintenance
Fund account, would be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank
"Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank". The Bank would be provided, within six months of the end of each
fiscal year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against a certified statement of expenses. The Government would
provide assurances to this effect during negotiations (para. 5.01).
Environmental Impact
3.27     The proposed project would not have any negative impact on the
environment. The equipment to be supplied under the project would be housed
in properly designed laboratories. Sub-project proposals which include the
purchase of laboratory equipment would specifically indicate how the
collection, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous laboratory wastes
would be handled. The designs for the refurbishing of the IEC facilities
would provide for suitable collection and treatment of sanitary wastes.
Provisions would be made to include courses on industrial health and safety in
the IEC curriculum and in the curricula used in secondary and post-secondary
technical education.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The proposed project is expected to yield very significant economic
benefits. By supporting the consolidation of engineering and technical
education, it would make a major contribution to Egypt's manpower training



- 28 -
efforts aimed at increasing productivity in the economy and expanding
export-oriented industries. The main benefits expected to accrue from
implementation of this project are summarized in the following paragraphs.
4.02     Engineering Education Development.  Improvement in the quality and
occupational relevance of engineering education would enable the universities
to meet more adequately the needs of the Egyptian economy as
technology-intensive companies would benefit greatly from better quality
engineering graduates with appropriate industrial knowledge and practical
experience.
4.03     Technical Teacher Education Development.  The proposed project would
support a major reform in technical education aimed at integrating the
traditionally separated roles of theory teachers and workshop instructors by
training a new type of technical teachers with instructional competence in
both theory and practice and re-training existing teachers accordingly.
Through better qualified teachers, and improved curricula and instructional
materials, the project would improve the supply of technical teachers and, as
a result, the quality and relevance of secondary and post-secondary technical
education. This, in turn, would increase the technical education system's
ability to produce well-trained, skilled technicians and workers.
Risks
4.04     The principal risk associated with the engineering education
development component is that the more advanced faculties of engineering would
be in a better position to compete and qualify for project support. To reduce
this risk and address equity concerns, the proposed project would include a
sub-project preparation facility to assist individual faculties in the
preparation of proposals for submission under the program, especially those
faculties which are less experienced in project formulation and international
cooperation.
4.05     As far as the technical teacher education component is concerned, the
existing salary scale for teaching staff presents the risk that the IECs would
have difficulty attracting and retaining teacher trainers with appropriate
qualifications. This risk would be addressed by establishing an incentives
system under a special status applicable only to a limited number of
post-secondary institutes. The system used at the new Benha Higher Institute
of Technology could serve as a model. This would enable IEC management to
recruit and keep qualified professionals with wide practical experience of the
relevant trades. There is also a risk that, during the transition phase, the
production of technical teachers competent in both theory and practice would
not be fully synchronized with the reform of the existing system with separate
teachers of theory and workshop instructors. This risk would be minimized by
careful planning of the transition phase and by arranging for the new teachers
to be allocated as teams to technical schools with reformed curricula so that
each of those schools would be completely staffed with theory-cum-practice
teachers (pre-service and in-service graduates). In this connection, it would
be advisable to select the schools being re-equipped under the on-going
African Development Bank project.



- 29 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it would establish the Board of the Kubba IEC by May 1990 and the
Board of the Beni-Suef IEC by October 1990 with adequate
representation from the Ministry of Education (para. 3.11);
(b)  it would imple;2nt, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the policy
measures and transition arrangements outlined in the technical
teacher reform action plan (para. 2.19);
(c) it would prepare and implement a plan acceptable to the Bank for
in-service training, at the IECs, of existing theory teachers and
workshop intructors in the technical schools and institutes (para.
2.16);
(d) the IECs would offer their teaching staff a system of remuneration
similar to the one used at the Benha Institute of Technology to be in
place by June 1990 (para. 2.17);
(e) the content, procedures and criteria for appraisal of sub-projects of
the engineering education development program would not be altered
without prior Bank approval (para- 2.09);
(f) the engineering education development program would be managed by the
bodies and would be substantially in agreement with the provisions
set forth in the project background documents (para. 3.10);
(g) sub-project proposals involving the purchase of laboratory equipment
would include provisions for establishing a maintenance fund financed
by the project; the faculties of engineering benefiting from project
fund would provide sufficient resources to replenish this maintenance
fund, according to the criteria defined in para. 2.12;
(h) a Program Coordinator for each component would be maintained with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.09); and
(i) project accounts, including the Special Account and the Maintenance
Fund Account, would be audited annually by the Government's Certral
Accounting Agency and submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year; these would be of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against certified statements of expenses
(para. 3.26).
5.02     During negotiations, the terms of reference for the technical
assistance program were reviewed and confirmed, and the Government provided
assurances that it would implement it as agreed with the Bank.
5.03     The establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under MOHE
would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Btank loan of US$30.5 million to the Arab Republic of
4 ?V ( - 38)



-30-                                                                           AnnexI
Page I af 2
300 SDUATION  29 *aum  293 SWAfO   183          Me35'A?*M103*noo
sco   Ms  1AS placm         In       sLIT67Wuf,M 6. 1989M      M W                          AT   M
*           1.-..2M   P.:AFT   tgCO    ffTA    2ONA  ALOAB'stm                       Soutso               SUM     ULr    2                    2WM190. :TDS          821.
CAA               2S 23l          60   1.          i      C*?1    me? 289   2*281.             G      l, 2 2*182 2     2 81?.9          toS o SWG6352to               22  20
*           2    2       iG~~~7    32 S.*2    2*8 6830         -    -81nI1N -   181V2811N2921*l    29221tins921181    :41 8021  2130010A                    A 1 2211088 
*           288812~~7   01.   A7A205!29731 Slf3*I:*10 *?8  is2 2881                  2891..       Ss281      to0831 880C110  IPIIA?1  IWL   :1503 1 289801
*       281*22213LL8~~~~.2(U19  201S.w     2 103843    :16  63611 26   ()           too1   2 too1   298        2AS    6         too31800k    8*tl     Is8   28*110 
*           2~~~~~$  2  2      23       20        290        43 a            25        292        2s         3      2         *2    22i                    7       10
WIOT              'to     14.6  8.7        43.0        14.6         3 2    ... -t            103       100        20        6-.                     nt                 9 06
KMA           62~8    237640   .4206      7A7b    20.15       30?63 t     3'I I   b     101'       so2       21        19.9'?       lG          92s       18        260
088*111.8          79    61.2b 12.10       4.6         169.        le30             80        89'X    410)         -                     0006        940        -       12.10'
IINItI.*EUR       17    14.  l030          7.9V        54.1       20   3    21      so        94b      9          18b       1$.O          99         62        II       313*4Q
-AL                at~    :-lb  *n6b    3.3            13.4        so   14   25      2b      100       100        14         S.          i0t         8         21      05.406
8A115088           79     8:bIIo .3 12.3   90          1.2         31   1    1       gob      9933                           3 100                   so 99  0  3  202  36.143
8011183            63      1,06    9206    a.o         22.0       41     61362      40b      100       77         2         10.0          o           So       to       1.40
001*1808t          84     0.46    3437    3.6'         26.04       I     3 492 2     49       76       40         39        -             411                   8       06
SOMALIA3           84     0.  4     80,       3.0      11.            326.. Sb b     10       42 U     46         4         67.0b         40         10b       2   19   .60
3321091*                  9 43.    110     a.          -9.3          39 6 1          39       37a       Go'        63       19.33                     16       46      0...
3881*L             62    i7.46    420      3.8Sp       20.4        $ 63 1    NI    46b                  so 6      3         1. 33                     18.  2   to        -.
1.33082            82      1.46    2360    3.3         16.9        36   32   26      336     11'        41        48        91.6          46         21        me        1.10
W1**880*           1     t8.3b    30b       .0        124.0        IS3 i 28 19       3        qs6       42        3b         8.0b         31          14b      23       o.6001
NALM               SI    26.lb    230b    3.           11.4        18142             23b       62       23        61         1.8         I0          is        21       0.400
wuunus      63    ~~~~1.06  1.;b43                40        4    16    7      Ab       9          2        2          30          101                    2        10
ZAMBIA        s3      3       59 26b    3.6P      27.4        71   1                               so3 3 3   40        16.0          19           S       16       0.40
ZI10WA 16          79     0. 1.7 70ft       3.9        22.4'       6 32'310                    -        -9        239       -.           as          Is        -1       -
su1*.1             81     .4.b    280        .3v       10.         43 21          b    466 *   30b26     6        2gb        9.06         896        Ib        22        1.00Y
SUR33"        a      0.b    216       2.tS'       20.4       431  34   13       63       93        30        3?        11.0          9          29        16        3.00
C.j1.j11           80    16.3      260b    3.W         17.79       479 1 16 2        7-       isb       67        43        18.0          1g          la       20' -    .30
UGAND    tIA       84     0.3.b    2206    1.6         12.0         8 I    8         1         6 42 4 2b  3 t     3o        1S.b          40          196      224      0.
CAM                61    29.66  3.20b    377           26.4         --  -134                  76        21;       360       21.           40          1        28       2.00
GAMBIA*            8        ,7b    346 2     .4W5      11.1        4 23 464o46 o              930       80        68        42.98         19          16bm     22        1.
Gun883             81 776 1         nb      3.          9.           23      466.7  $s   -     90bz     -5        39y       20.           8-          1        23        -,3
802311             TO     6.3      2106    2.1'         -   21.    4 2928n    90              16       23         37        20.3a        16          14        29       0.03
coliNaO   8sa       6    10.0b      lob    3.19           6 -      33282            I20       89       4t6        30         2            -          23        28       2.7
0.4.cuf            66     2.6b    2806    3.83          24.7'?     1 4901   24      -         79        43        61'       MO.          -9           I3       67       1.40'
Lcan               87      3.2     179     2.6         6.96        43114?        30-          46        39        i0        50.3          36          7'       37       0.80
00A10              76      1.1b    670     9.Oi        27.7'?       -        -                      3663 i t  2  0 4         -.           30          -        43t       4.900'?
3Q1A?.0U8          6      0.36    270      2.8         31.8        40 2s...   206             13        10        80       41.2           40         21        Zs'       -.
0*306              77    03.6b  342        37b    8.47                              -          -  13 3   -0        3        1. 4667  -                         196      2.80'
soma*1             77     0.6      SW0      3,3W       2,0         462 3060106                406       90'       267       44.70        4            1262     24       2-0
slam 8*            76    13.4      400     4.01        13.36       -     -     -    -l        1716      -         276       -SO           -4         Ism6      21        -.b
001886             re  CA9 H 3.3   290     4.68         -.         230  28' 28'  2b           39        36         16       2008         8?          16        a9        7.00'
G0118*8s  6         6     0.962 170        $.           9.6        46       2-      13t 36  10 b 99     9         24         2.          9-          -s        16       -
I1087A088          is     036   720"    7.3"           42.86        140  91   6    33'?       72o      79         37       29.90         949         ley       10       18
oLINI              80      1.9     320     4.6a        19.6          3 3430                   32  64    32        3         20.          76          22        20      12.901
21*1.              81   II.       190m    4.'          217         36      111      10        204       8         4"        1,3.7        616         15        14       02.90'b
218013*1*           6     10.76    416.     .0         224         324023           17        31,b      33_       3         30.0-        -4          14        23b     4I.80y
C11108 A           84     9.b    3.2 00    2.          21.0        4023o20    as              230       420                41.0           3-         60        28      10.00
COSTA 1*           83    93,4   I 6        7.4.        316.0        0 2 - 13           3                70        236       1.9.         67          20        10        .0
81830*1.  84  6.4  380     3,06       14.0        46633619628 3~-    -        2b       3         4         2. "9'                   IS        24       2.0
CUBA*11            is7    3.4      23        .06       16.06        -          -     a 15    I7         -           br    230            86          I         2         0.406
ZCUUX0             76     2.4      4010    6.9         2.9          0  S8t 2  16              74        40s       347       126.         32          3261      46      19.067
ELMUWIA            7      73    .3         2.7   1.       9             3'IS         3        8          2         7        -             73                   87b     2.900
GN8MAI8*           79     .0,22,77         3.76        19.1b       36361            93        699x      97        24       -              97         73b       19b     5-0
801111             80     31.4     630     4.1'1       1.3'        -   - -674 -                                   201 ub   -             -           13-7     -        12.oo
sl*u               79   11.5b  1,70        3.81         6.28       51  9-   14      7         736      -0         231      49.0          61'9         Am'      146     12.62
02111.2            76    10.9   1.8        3.267       143.06      GI   i-  1-    -0         119667    -0         347    12-              -          2366     206      11.907
0010881            so 89    28 .461,24     3.01        20.0         401020          90        80        o4        20        8.0           -SI0                20       1.00w
Mcto318c           so    25.$1.86          8.4         31.0        4    2 33 9s    9          93        7         3         9.3          77          40       27       10.30
0084RA             78     9.8b    -         .0b        11.0        -   - -9 6o               1126       14        167b     -             98          7162)   130       190
00N1IC*81. 89     5.3.08            .9          3.        39 22            46        8         3         3         3.           9 o                  33b      1600
zoADas             80     6.46  1.110      6.0y        31.7b       as  31m  16    81b        "05       -          36b      12.6          S"          4        16       29.400
31.8*A1*A0         77     4.0   6:40       3.467       023.6       64    67        82         6266?    32         39        -.I          4          26"       27S       07.06
05*13**            s7     6.8   1.010      1.76        12.66       -3  is   -s   so           696       -6        336       -.           69          136      1          .07
002e*              76     0.6       630    6.16        13.84       -     --     -        9     9667sb  -          3267    -              -          69bx      -         37.0067
111A8MlA           78    24.66  36106    3.0           14.06      -     -     -    06        16366     24         376             -                 2666b    I0?       -10



31 -                                                                            Annex
MNAWM wwwo gwom                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
:SnMM,SW=M tRAWAY TO I11111101L. :SIUCSM MINUIL.-
-Vmtlltm.t(M)  IOMNM 'm  WOVIII                  im        gm   in  t (1)    Ism*  tct=       4411    :as 0929mlgeoumv  'SATto                 :M     ALATIa
MWIMIOM    t UUCMGB  LVF90"M                   I                                 (1)    MACM    IGIF/cAft1al            (2)     its   MAOM          Its
I       I            T              I                       t        I           I                     I
(4)     1    (S)          (6)   a (11         (s)     M
M,      ..-         Soob    S.,      1.1        13   46   it      y6b       $6       68         O          i.0           01          w        if        -.4-1
(*Mont&            41   %so O        so     2.1         9.1        10   Z4    6      Ub        go       61         17         ti.0
KOM               Ila    ":$b  I.4"ll   P.?*            30.6        A    A    St      Is       99        9411       43        16.0          of
1141011           ISS    1.1       Ito      4.4.         ?.O       Go   to    1      41Y       Itt       is         SI        --            40-Y         3        l        I.W
VALANIU            ea    iG.10  I'S"o    da             14.1        is  410  It       13b      Is        46         12        16.0          of          11       14        -.,P,
puub 11.1l.        63      3.00    020      1.4         tolo       4ws   V    a                ba        It*        II&       11.0          Is          II"       :7.      I.-Jo
ftILlfttn$         it    40.16        ilool,   2.v      IAA        tA   36   -                           4s         It         T.t          to          1        to
stwArm             w       2.4   4.420      2?           Gr              40   I*      SI                 *1         11I        9.6          ob          ti        U
1, iib                                           so
So       11116.   02     0.36    "O        6:bw                   41   34   25,    is         Is                             103                                 to
T"UAB              41a    0  0     Won,   1.6           20,2       "    14   w        ob      tai        Go         21         9. it                              , I
I#Aulm             06      al      -        Zs          MI          61   V     a      11      Its        60         24        11.0
SOM As
IANGLWM            86   103'k.    Sao       -           10.4        -        -     -  Zeb      at         s         68         I.S          I I         II       ft
MOM                w       1.3      so      1.6         11.0                          to       12        ---        -
timiA              77   .19.6      Ito      2.91         11.11"                       36       199                  41                                 -18-;      --
XVIAL              el    Is.ob    twb    1.4           -                              19       70                   la                                  2 1       .13       I.Na
1,11111111CAN      at    47.1b    mb    2.0              1.0        is   20   26      32       io        It         10         11.9         w           U         I I       1. Al
nu AIM gm
Io w         a     77    13:3      -        1.1          1.7        4?   it   IS      ta        igby     69                                 61           a         Zbv      1)Ol
ALGOU              79    is I   1.170       3.06        t2.3        146  266  216    n         637       4so        17         7.01         IS4         I"        Zb        1.11-
1112111            02    43.30    6we    4.60            1.9        316  3S4  266    44        7's       we         $60        9.64         $30         414       W        O.jo
Gas=               76      9.3   4.140      SAR         10.6b       17   26   it      -        97by                 "b         6.2i         -            Igba     !jbv    t 1.84b.
MAN                M     16.11    -         9.7"        t4.141     -    -             lo      togatt                us                                  'A *-     ?4&       .ulfv
tuA                it    12      2.710      4.1,110     6.9"       -    -             -       tool                  28                                  4s"       IOM      0. in"
triume             el      )::b  a4w       6.347        U.SWIF     -         -     -  lo                 94         29                                  &I        14      11.01)
jano               el      2.2b  I:4vp    4-.9v         10.2        to        to      76b      SO        Ss         12        111.1                     490       is        *.go
MUM                79  2.1   -    -                     Is.60"   -            -   -            962    -             to        -                          6%    --   27.8041
mommm              41    it Sb              6.0         11.5        n    47   is      40        72       is         zo        26.0          61          27        42       J.80Y
opm                65      1:2b  0          1.2         11.74W      -        -     -  1101      714M     6-10       ISO       -             110         it-       144      ...
foaluaL            66    10.3b  1:9                     ti 5                          so      tis        70         to        16.9          68          is        L6        4.00
!-  Ll-                 IM,                                                    8411m,            to.60bv
YS    22.1   2.100      3:10-        6:2                          1111     106        -         23b        -             is                   -,Z4
11VAIN             76    31.0   4.9a        Lty         16.V                          -        geby      -          29b                                  Ay       -        24. toby
Sim                ?s      8.6   1.170      4.49        111.3       n    is   26      Is       67by      OD         3,b                                   I by    !tb      12.60
MESIA              a?      7.5   1.2w       5.69        16.0        4s   V    is      63       Ill       $1         12         11.0          21         so        ts        i.sar
03     41.11  1.2       1.1         16.2        so   n    at      fib      Ito        ?I         it         6.0          Ss          16        It       4.(!O
AA.          86     9.3b    M        7.90        17.7        W    20   It      218       is        Zs         M         17.13         so           9        20       1.14
lo=  P.M.          44      2.4b    6toll   7.6           9.7        630  SO        as    It    61        u          is         22.04         46          17       tv
Op%LOPM COWUM;
EM      IN  c4uStfles:                      Me                      70   0    67       $I       92        be                                  71         91        so       es
tootps                                    (t.4-          (1.7-  (23-  (6-  (5-    (8-       (12-      (ta-        W-        (11.4-        (to-        (I.       (4-      (.1.01;
10.0)          '54.11)  96)   46)  11)    qg)     ll*)      91)         71)       61.0)         140)        441       48)
Quettlus: VFW.                             SA            it.?      St   16   22      el       911       so         41         to           41?          Z       lb       11.1i
wAdleat                        4.0           16.1     43    n    10      51       40        ol         is         13            O           .16      4-1       I.,
L~ ,                           1.0           11.0      30   21   13      n        Go        Is        .10         9             W           44       tq        1.)
Quartz"  Owriscloat                        1.)            SA      OA   7.$  6.5   29.0       19.0     12.1l       1.0        S.6          MI          I..$       I.s       i. I
lt"ot                                      4.4           t?.O      46    a        16  It       16                  16         16            62          It        !I        .I
Stoewd oa"niao.                            t.9            $.1      SS    to    7     29        Zi       24         1 t        I I
rAdtms                                     4.0           t6.0      43   to   to      $3       SI        bi         1`5        ts
------------- -- --------------------- -----------------
snamst                                                                  raoraims
ISA=    OWAItMX                                             A - OMM Mot To mu  VW                               - Rtutsm    v aticAties 4-111,113 IMLY
PJAUTM  IML 01 OUtOtUR                                      a - Oa= Wu  9,               OM  %Up               f - M8 40 STOR MvgRW4W -WLY
ontst 4gaTiosma                                             I - CIL""  FUCU                                   v - NUtC 21FIRDtIAMIt *LV
It  fecLam  PAIN-?=  -                                           0 - M  GMWJM  wig                                 It - INCLUM  (Wu-AM Ituoum
t - OAM tgDLLOW itAno                                UWAM SOUXM
P-OW
SOURMS           *$low  I am  all *mu  adfk Atim  W  gamution Spam  fftid et"tfte.
Cologm 3 go 14s NW34 ONS, fdoagglaw, sftcor idoolow. Comm== eaurces
aWw On ue"w Stutestess Toorbok.
--------------------- ----------------------------
Cogwaive Sdoftttft liate, an  maw    to me aftleaten of    -                edswtm    eyetent ad anallaze of nlutqo steps of
*&N"iL*Mt deml*Pa*o  b*gn"  venow  cowague.  I                  . ea the bmis of tm  I        ,das.                   comwe"
S%mw to OP"ftftd sub won amim. vmtw "*Mal" is ttA - - - table bm bw milmud Inall by Mum, mi"tow
tgm  S&gummu  obianow; tto         - -  a* *W# Wttfttw  09 dean ft"  goo6co.  "Idt"  t*"  bwe ml&  to Otes"tdt"
&Itoftlow AM. fitue Umts. W Chao ow atemml dt 00 dws. ftwortbeig". Sam Ana an atilt topreftes to
**,*,a      ,     owl tte wait  -  -   ft  I I -    tfte pftgeo"mly 40 00 occanift  4c tte apmtmu Vogt.  te the
ag th satal. tu baiague qlaucteft"M abould b. bove to awl
(t) Uwutftl an daiftd la OA coue tftlod*o "I eammus Md tralalu& botb ffte" am "a-famt.
(2) Vftalw oftatue aws"s to 468fttt" 44 tbo figst 1tv". 404 '000066ow osofttwa ftfoce to 441 Otowtva
at 4:11a,  ... I I too"  goondlen  el t"o (*.S.. somta. goemate". earicalm").
'Lkogm cosw (04. 6) no tfina, obtain" fgm totem compow. to Gm consma tbw an o"I
*Woxgsmueft me ft U dmd*M thas any adeem ddtaium of '11twoto' Un bme fatleved amistenty.
VGUU awatitm to o6wavilde- (ft". 4 am S) able" to ou awt4lL am toongwA expawalcum divood to
*&Motu* by "bus am q-"-Wbltg somi".
M'809011um ml", (Colo. 7. Is dEd 14) roft to seft" "M Om an as Percentage 49 eltgtbu antem
eaftu" hu-tim ta, aw, sweprum sebmi. pauta, .06 "Jange by lefti. say an aftee oubjAm" to 0 adse
mgm de ww la cm amId" ametawas awl" to forsettem in tho decogs" at bale dets (I.*..
ago-imbet"In, potalauft md davollafte). toroumn tipm  0 -  1? aft Man dm tu ftdw of
sto&wm samur to 04wou OOK-spe stedom eV to lactem to shm ttvm so am gals" C" cattea.



- 32 -
Annex 2
STRUCTURE OF THE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
UNDER MOE AND MOHE
Faculties of
~gneing
(45,038)                                             years of
study
5
4
Other            5-year Technical
Faculties           Schools                                              3
(359,978)           (24,530)
2
2-year Technical
Institutes
_j _  _(97,489)             PVTD      1
________________      I  I                     ~~~~~~~~(32,476)
_ _ _ _ -   -  -   _ _                           -   U~~~~~~~~~~SE -
3
General Secondary             3-year Technical Schools                 2
(564,678)                         (826,093)
end of
prepratory
0 I      I    i   I    I
0  100 200 300 40Q  500 thousands of students enrolled



- 33 -                         Anmex 3
Page 1 of 8
STATISTICS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
lable 1. LABOR FORCE 12 TO 64 YEARS OF AGE AND
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES BY SEX
1980                 1984
Labor Force (000)
Total                                 10,335                12,575
Employment                             9,799                11,819
Unemployment                             536                 7,561
Men                                    9,477                10,220
Employment                             9,106                 9,733
Unemployment                             371                   487
Women                                    858                 2,355
Employment                               693                 2,086
Unemployment                             165                    269
Unemployment Rates
Total                                      5.2                    6.0
Men                                        3.9                    4.8
Women                                     19.2                   11.4
Source: CAPMAS
Table 2. EDUCATIONAL DIURIBUTION OF THE LABOR FORCE
12 TO 65 YEARS OF AGE BY SEX (1984)
Education Level                 Number                 Percent
(000)
Education Level
Illiterate                             6,282                  49.8
Read and Write                         2,581                   20.5
Less than 9 years                        590                   4.7
9 years                                1,782                  14.2
Over 9 years and
less than a University degree          336                   2.7
University Degree                        991                    7.9
Unknown                                   14                    0.1
Total                                 12,575                 100.0
Source. CAPMAS



- 34 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
STATISCS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Table 3. DISTRBUTION OF EMPLOYMENT BY OCCUPATION
FOR MEN AND WOMEN 12 - 64 YEARS OF AGE
(1984)
Occupation                        Number                 Percent
(000)
Occupation
Production Workers                     2,655                     22.5
Agriculture/Fishing                    4,718                     39.0
Service                                  890                      7.5
Sales                                    755                      6.4
Clerical                               1,070                      9.1
Mgmt./Administration                      317                     2.7
Technical/Scientific                   1,415                     11.9
Unclassified                                0                     0.0
Total                                 11,819                    100.0
Source: CAPMAS



-35-                                  Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
STATISTICS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Table 4: ENROLLMENTS AND GRADUATES OF SECONDARY TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
(1982 - 87)
ENROLLNENTS
Type of School   1982         1983          1984       1985       1986        1987
Industrial
3-year          172,392    187,589    205,189    231,888    302,076    332,218
5-year           12,767      13,991      16,119      16,890       17,066      19,124
Agricultural
3-year           83,388      87,147      94,584    106,295    113,908    111,256
5-year            1,288       1,419       1,501        1,380       1,365       1,374
Commercial
3-year          317,710    340,261    368,890    401,932    416,354    382,619
5-year            3,138       3,228       3,365        3,349       3,582       4,032
Source: MOE
GRADUATES
Type of School       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
Industrial:
3-year            50,498      57,367      64,708       63,721      66,596      76,709
5-year               815       1,524        1,999       2,927       5,608        n.a
Agricultural:
3-year            17,918      23,110      26,700       22,845      24,531      30,283
5-year               -            108         172         330       2,631        n.a.
Commmercial:
3-year           110,137    130,244    135,818    111,648    119,678    121,686
5-year                537         508         493         508         794       1,226
Source: MOE



-36 -                            Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
STATSCS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNCAL EDUCATION
Table 5: ENROLLMENTS IN POST-ECONDARY TECHNICAL ISTIUTES
(1982-87)
Type of School    1982          1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
Industrial        13,492       14,210      17,247       28,217    32,104    37,178
Conuercial        45,931       51,046      68,383       73,177    62,352    59,903
Total             59,423       65,256      85,630      101,394    94,456    97,081
Source: MOHE
GRADUATES FROM POST-SECONDARY TECHNICALNSTIS
(1982 - 87)
Type of School    1982         1983        1984        1985        1986        1987
Industrial        3,998       4,468       3,979       3,925       5,636       7,441
Commercial       12,838      12,559      14,915      16,368      21,357      19,273
Source. MOHE



- 37 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
STATSTICS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Table 6. ENROLLMENTS AND GRADUATES OF
FIVE-YEAR TEACHER TRAINING SCHOOIS
Grade                1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
1                  644         664          743          822       1295
2                  624         644          628          612        763
3                  526         544          560          690        628
4                  648          670         669          668        628
5                  582          600         597          592        633
Total Enrollments            3024         3122        3197         3384       3947
Graduates                     466          571         574          601        487
Source: MOE



- 38 -                          Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
STATISTICS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Table 7: GRADUATES OF ADVANCED INDUSTRMIL TECHNICAL
SCHOOLS BY SPECIALIZATION
Numbers of Graduates
AITS         SPECIALIZATION           79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86   87
KUBBA        Mechanical              121  131  129  107  141  163  161  165  159
Automotive               38   38   30   48   55   40   66   63   64
Electrical               49   56   48   60   68   67   70   72   74
Electronics              28   33   26   27   35   35   29   30   32
(SUB TOTAL)            236  258  233  242  299  305  326  330  329
EL ZAWIA    Advertising                                           25   17   19   22
Iron Work                                            6   14   15   19
Jewelery                                              7   10   12   13
Cabnet Making                                        25   22   24   26
Sheet Metal                                         20   13   14   19
Weaving                                              56   43   47   51
Ready-to-wear                                       22   31   25   33
(SUB TOTAL)                                        161 150 156  180
DAR EL
SALAM        Building                                                  33   30   29
Concrete                                                  31   29   30
Joinery                                                   18   17   19
Plumbing                                                  13   12   14
(SUB TOTAL)                                               95   88  92



- 39 -                                 Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
SrATIrCS ON ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Table 8. TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINIG SCHOOIS
Cumriedm Structure (Teaerinu Pl
Subject                  Periods Per Week in Year          Percentage
1      2       3      4       5        of Time
1. General
Religion                  1      1       1      -       -
Arabic Language           2      2       2       2      -            14
English Language         4       4       4      4       2             _
History & Geography       2      -       -      -       -
2. Basics
Science                  4       4       4      _       _
Mathematics               4      4       4      -       -            11
First Aid                 1      -       -      -       -             -
3. Technical
Theory Subjects           8     10      11     11      11            23
Practical (Workshop)   14       15      15     21      24            41
4 .  Sports                   2       2      1       -      -              2
5. Educational
Educational Psychology  2        2       2      2       3             5
Teacher Training          -      -       -      4       4             4
TOTAL                        44     44      44      44     44            100
Souirce: MOE



- 40 -                         Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
Table 9: FACULTIES OF ENGINEERING
New
School Year         Admissions           Enrollments           Graduates
1982/83              6,206               49,583                8,110
1983/84              6,011               49,140                8,113
1984/85              6,002               48,689                7,662
1985/86              5,010               48,123                8,203
1986/87              5,942               45,445                8,140
1987/88              5,848               45,038                8,107
1988/e9              4,400                n.a.                  n.a.
Source: MOHE
Table 10. GRADUATES OF FACULTIES OF ENGINEERING BY SPECIALIZATION
(June 1988)
Specialization                       Number                      Percentage
Architecture                           622                              8.3
Civil Engineering                    2,241                             30.0
Mechanical                           2,111                             28.2
Textiles                                39                              0.5
Electrical                           1,974                             26.4
Chemical                               112                              1.5
Nuclear                                 14                              0.2
Telecommunications                      41                              0.5
Maritime                                75                              1.0
Petroleum                               81                              1.1
Mining                                  49                              0.7
Metallurgy                               5                              0.1
Surveying                              105                              1.4
Biomedical                              11                              0.1
Total                                7,480                            100.0
Source: Supreme Council of Universities



PUSRT  OF T,CACM K uMMmsS AD WOAT  A8M Oil ITINUAT83 OF STATUS QUO
MSamums:
1.   auolty of edue6on aMd TTSs cottnu  proue"t     thleow. practice teachers
resecttvely atla   present rates.
2.  T*roV*r iactidnO retten t. 6   er  _A.
3.  Growth of enrllemants In TSSs and TIs, 45  e   num.
27-lop-U
1t-Ul 196-    1969-90  190-91  1 92  192-93  1993-94  2994-95  S195-9   196-97  I9-961 I9-99  199-200000-01  2001-02  2702-u2  203-0
Intae                                                                                                                                                                   I
2-yar streas                            0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         f         e        o
4-yearstream                            0        a'                 0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0    ~  
6r&"tes                0        00                                              0             0              0        0         0 e  O  e                             0 o
la-Service
1967-U 'I9I -6   1969-90  19041  2992-92  199293  1           n93-9   I4-%   1 -9   196-97  IM7-9   199-9  1M-2020-1  2001-02  2002-04
Initial Stock
lTeor            2709      3146      3558     394       4508     44        4970     5272      555t      922      6073      309      6530     6738      1934      7118        9129
Practice         120"      1264    11652    11453    11246    11490    Il7OO    1i89i    12084    12225         12424    12576    12124    t2o        12969    13109    11223            0
lb-cte-pr                     0         0        4         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        O         m        0         0        '1
lotal            14796    15010    15210    15597    15573    16139    1670    17170    1764o    18082    16497   Iam              19254    195"    I923    20227    Z0514              0
turrno*er
lbeory             163      IN3       213      2S7       256      279       291       316      353      354       364       319      32       404       416       427      413                   -
Practice           725      112       699      607       676      69        702      714         5       736      745       m        763       172      779       787      791
1k-cue-pr            0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        v        0         *t        9        1.
total             see       "I        913      924         4      966      t0oo     IO1D      1051     105       1110      IIS3     1155     1116      11        1214    1031
Addition
Theoy              600      600       600      600       600      600       600      600       600      600       600      600       600      600       j,ta     66        6fl0
Practice           500      500       500     5so        900      900       900      900       900      90       9WA       900       904      900       WI.')     940      900
lh-oa-pr             0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        u         u         0        0
Total             1100     1100      1100     1100      1100     1500      1500     I500      1500     1500      1500     250       t500     1500      1504     2500      2500
final Stock
Thry              3146     3551      3944     43o       4649      970      5272     5556      562      673       6309     6530      6738     6934      ?110     7291      743
Practice         11664    11652    11453    11266    1140    11700    II           1204    12229    12424    22576o   12724    1266         1299    13109 1s223    1 9
lb-cuep              0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         i         0        0
total           15010    15210    15397    15573    16139    lU7O    17170    17640    16062    13497   I286             29254    19593    19923    20227    20514    20793
19117-1B  I2 -F89 9  I9399   ISSO-91  1971-92  1992-3  293-94  1994-95  1954-96  1996-97  1997-96  19"-99  IM-20002000-01  2001-02  2002-01  2003-04 
Requireonts        25631    2656    2772    28833        2S915    M11M4    32411    33729    35076    36461    37940    345S    41036    42677    445    46160    49006
6ap               -10621   -11447   -12326   -13256   -13946   -14514   -15261   -16 6          ff1696   -17984   -19053   -20204   -21430   -22755   -24157   -25646   -27224



- 42 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION OF EEDP SUB-PROJECTS
General Criteria
The general criteria that must be considered and clearly responded to
with evidence of positive action by a university applying for funds
include the following:
(a) Physical Infrastructure Preparation and Refurbishing. A university
must clearly show evidence of the availability of adequate physical
facilities and infrastructure for the housing and use of the proposed
equipment. Laboratories should have adequate facilities for the
collection, treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous laboratory
wastes. It must also show evidence of commitment of human and
financial resources in a carefully designed plan to refurbish and
rehabilitate its physical facilities prior to delivery and
commissioning of equipment.
(b)  Equipment Maintenance Program.  A university must show clear evidence
of its commitment to improving its capacity for the maintenance and
repair of new proposed equipment and the rehabilitation of old
equipment. Such commitment should include human, physical and
financial resources in a plan designed to support all elements of a
proposed project according to the maintenance program guidelines
outlined earlier.
(e) Academic Priorities. A university must show clear evidence of its
capacity to consider its academic priorities in the submission of
proposals by different engineering departments. The proposed
hierarchy of priorities that universities should consider are the
following categories:
Category 1: Basic and Engineering Science Facilities
All universities must consider this category of facilities as
their first priority in submitting proposals. A university must
show clear evidence that it has adequate facilities in the basic
and engineering sciences before other proposals are considered.
Category 2: Discipline-specific Engineering Fundamentals
laboratories for years 1, 2 and 3.
A university must show clear evidence that its engineering
departments have adequate fundamentals laboratories before they
are eligible to be considered for advanced engineering
laboratories.



- 43 -                           Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
Category 3: Advanced Undergraduate Laboratories for years 3 and 4
Only after a university has shown clear evidence of adequate
facilities in categories 1 & 2 can it be considered for
eligibility under this category.
2.       Specefic Criteria
The specific criteria for selection of the proposed projects, the
documents necessary to demonstrate qualifications, and required
action needed by faculties of engineering to demonstrate eligibility
are outlined as follows:
2.1 Societal and Industrial Needs
Demonstrated link to national, regional and sectoral economic
development plans:
Clear indication, from published plans (by government and/or
industry), of type and level of commitment to support proposed
academic program.
Demonstrated evidence of an industrial strategy:
documented data base of relevant industries (employers survey)
commitment by industry for cooperation in providing training
opportunities for students, and also for providing part-time
teaching staff (list of companies involved)
commitment by industry for cooperation in joint applied research
initiatives (list of companies involved).
2.2 Institutional Needs
Demonstrated faculty-wide, or department-based academic development
program
strategic adjustment in program offering (elimination of unneeded
programs, addition of relevant new programs, etc.)
Demonstrated institutional (and departmental) capacity for program
development in the discipline(s) under consideration
evidence of existing program documentation including course
outlines, supporting course materials, etc.
Demonstrated need for physical resources and equipment to support
proposed initiative
* complete laboratory equipment inventory



44                             Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
plans for infrastruture remodelling and/or upgrading.
Demonstrated commitment of relevant human resources (faculty,
technical sipport staff and administrative staff) to support the
proposed initiative
human resources plan clearly indicating roles and commitment for
upgrading of skills
2.3 Academic Reform and Program Innovation
Demonstrated improvement in the academic environment
improved student/faculty ratio
reduced student enrollment
improvement in the level and quality of technical support staff
* improvement in physical infrastructure.
Demonstrated capacity for curriculum reform associated with the
proposed project
development of academic program assessment guidelines
(modification to SCU's guidelines and/or adaptation of ABET's or
other relevant guidelines)
development of curriculum guidelines (total hours per semester,
balance among subjects, course credits, etc)
Evidence of innovations in developing continuing education strategies
continuing education programs for engineers and technicians
day-leave programs for engineers from industry
* in-service programs for engineers
Demonstrated capacity for comparative analysis of similar programs,
in other countries and their adaptation to the Egyptian needs
proposals to contain documentation of comparative analysis of
similar engineering programs in countries in both the developed
world and the industrializing world.



45 -                            Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
Evidence of innovations in academic programming
innovation in the definition of modern multi-disciplinary
programs such as manufacturing, engineeri.ng or construction
engineering, biomedical engineering
repacking of basic sciences courses to include new scientific
"fundamentals" (discrete mathematics, statistical analysis,
modern physics, engineering materials, etc.)
Innovation in the use of educational technologies
2.4 Institution-BuildinR
Definition and development of output products of the project including
published curriculum details
published detailed courseware and laboratory notes
supportive computer software
transparencies, video tapes and slides
plans for diffusion and sharing of outputs with other
universities.
Development of institutional capacity for equipment procurement,
installation, commissioning, maintenance and repair; development of
institutional capacity for parts, components and materials
procurement and distribution
plans for equipment procedures
strategies for development of student-based components, tools,
and parts kits to reduce the financial burden on institutions.
Demonstrated benefits of increased institutional capacity for
resources planning and management
Demonstrated development of systems for human rsources management
(faculty, technical support staff and administrative staff)
2.5 Resources Manaxement Reform



-46 -                              Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
Demonstrated increased capacity for financial planning and management
of resources
* preparation of detailed capital and operating budget
Demonstrated innovations in the development of a revenue plan to
include some of the following
student fees
laboratory users fees
computer user fees
student-purchased component kits
revenues from consulting and other services to industry
revenues from services to the conmmunity (manpower training
programs, problem-solving services, etc.)
revenues from development and delivery of continuing education,
short-term courses for working engineers and technicians
Demonstrated innovation in equipment, design, specification and
experimental development that reflects ingenuity in the use of basic
laboratory equipment and supporting educational technology.
innovation in the use of engineering laboratories (use of
didactic equipment, open-ended design laboratories)
use of computers inc'uding analytical packages, simulation
packages, and other relevant tools
use of education technology to diffuse curriculum development
products to other institutions (video tapes, transparencies,
slides, etc.)



_ 47 -
Annex 6
EGYPT: ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Siggested Content of Sub-Project Provosas
Sub-project proposals for the Engineering Education Development Program should
include at least the following elements:
-    justification of the propos'd investment, reform(s) to be undertaken,
objectives pursed and benefits expected;
-    list of monitorable outputs and performance indicators (new
curricula, new courses,improved laboratory instruction, etc.;
-    detailed list of required inputs, .ncluding renovaticon of facilities
(with provisions for suitable collection, disposal, and treatment of
toxic and hazardous laboratory wastes), laboratory equipment,
instructional materials, teaching staff, technical assistance, etc.;
-    detailed implementation schedule for delivery of inputs and
production of outputs;
-    calculation of costs of sub-project and estimation of associated
incremental recurrent costs;
-    management plan for the sub-project showing distribution of
responsibilities for implementation;
-    any additional information required by the selection and evaluation
criteria specified in the program; and
-    plan for evaluation of sub-project activities and achievements.



48                                Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
EGYPT: ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Basic and Engineering Sciences Sub-Program
A.       Overview.  The physical sciences (physics and chemistry) and basic
engineering sciences (materials and processes, electricity/electronics, fluid
mechanics, thermodynamics, and computer applications) are fundamental to sound
engineering education and provide the foundation on which to build strong and
effective programs. Most university engineering faculties in Egypt have
little or no equipment for practical laboratory instruction in these subject
areas and such equipment that does exist is, for the most part, extremely
outdated or non- functional. It is therefore proposed that funds be made
available under the Engineering Education Development Program to support the
equipping of basic and engineering science laboratories in selected university
engineering faculties; i.e., those desiring and willing to take the necessary
measures to upgrade and re-orient curricula, instructional materials and
methodology, and teaching staff. Faculties wishing to participate in this
sub-program would submit proposals documenting their basic equipment needs,
justifying their specific requests based on a sound strategy for engineering
education development, and satisfactoTily meeting the conditions specified in
Section C of this paper as judged by the appropriate sub-group of the Basic
and Engineering Sciences committee described below (Section B), or by the
Committee as a whole.
B.       A Basic and Engineering Sciences Committee would be nominated by the
the SCU Engineering Education Committee and appointed by the SCU Chairman with
six sub-groups for the areas of: (a) physics, mathematics, and chemistry; (b)
materials and processes; (c) thermodynamics; (d) electricity/electronics; (e)
fluid mechanics; and (f) computer applications. The committee sub-groups,
working cooperatively to ensure compatability amoung the various science
courses, would develop core curricula (about 70-802 of the total subject
content) and course syllabi for the eight indicated subject areas, prepare
lists and specifications of required equipment, assess institutional needs and
shortcomings for meeting recommended equipment standards, evaluate
institutional proposals for participation in the program and recommend
institutional eqipment allocations, and monitor subsequent implementation of
the program. It is estimated that this activity, to be supported from project
funds, will require 24 individuals (3 per subject area) working the equivalent
of full time for 3 months. A detailed terms of reference for the Committee's
activities would be prepared in advance. The Committee's work and report of
final recommendations would have a completion/submission deadline of a maximum
of 4 months (120 days) after the project starting date.



49 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
C.       Criteria for Institutional Participation.  The following basic
requirements would apply to the beneficiary institutions:
(a) adequate physical facilities for each of the laboratories above would
be available (including proper disposal of wastes) and assessed as
satisfactory by the respective sub-groups or, if only minor
adaptations are needed to meet basic standards as pre-determined and
made public by the sub-group, assurances would be provided that such
adaptations would be made, at institutional expense (with plan and
budget acceptable to the respective committee as a whole), by an
agreed date prior to the planned arrival of the equipment to be
provided under the project loan. Failure to meet that condition
would render the institution ineligible to participate further in
this particular project. (Most normal renovations or new
construction of basic and engineering science laboratories would
likely delay equipment installation under this expected
quick-implementing subprogram. Sub-projects requiring extensive
renovation or new laboratory construction should be proposed as part
of a larger activity under the expected follow-up project (Phase II)
for which financial and technical assistance for soil and engineering
design studies, etc. would be made available under this currently
proposed project, i.e., Phase I);
(b) the institution/engineering faculty would agree formally in the
sub-project contractual document to implement the core curricula for
each subject area as developed by the respective sub-groups,
adequately supplemented to respond to local program and regional
employment needs;
(c) the institution would provide assurance that all teaching staff
scheduled to use equipment furnished under this sub-program would
participate fully in training sessions on operation and applications
of the various equipment items and that selected staff would receive
special training on instructional planning and teaching methodology.
Training on equipment operation and applications would be arranged
centrally to take place during and immediately after installation, as
part of suppliers' contracts, while the latter training would be
provided as part of the project technical assistance;
(d) the institution would agree to take appropriate measures to ensure
that the equipment provided will be used in the instructional progrem
and for the purposes stated in the institution's proposal document;
and
(e) the institution would provide assurance that appropriate measures
would be taken (including establishment and annual replenishment ot
an adequate maintenance fund and professional and technical support
staff training) to ensure that project equipment is properly
maintained for continued effective instruction and extended
operational life.



- 50 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Project Preparation Assistance Services
1.       The project preparation assistance services will provide human
resources (librarian, secretary, etc.), library resources (journals, stut'ies,
etc.) and technical assistance consultancies to faculty and academic
administrators of engineering faculties in Egypt to prepare proposals for
submission to the Engineering Education Development program. This
sub-component will be used in particular to help these faculties which are
less experienced in project formulation and international cooperation. The
following is a summary of services to be made available in this context:
Administrative Resources
-   Secretarial Services
-   Librarian Services
-   Office Facilities including:
Portable computer with modem and access to international data bases
e Telefax
Printer, photocopier and other facilities
Librry Resourns
-   Equipment Information
Catalogs on equipment specification and prices
Users report on equipment in other institutions
Studies on equipment use and repair by ILO and/or other relevant
bodies.
-   Engineering Education
Brochures and Catalogs of Engineering Education faculties from
universities around the world.
Complete documentation on relevant Engineering disciplines
including: Program Structures; Course Syllabi; and Program
Management Guidelines.
Documentation on examples of Curriculum details in various
disciplines including: Course Notes; Laboratory Notes; and
Supporting Software
Documentation on university - industry cooperative Engineering
Education programs.
-   Comparative Education Studies
Published Analysis and studies of national Engineering Education
systems.
Published comparative studies of Engineering Education.



-51 -                     Annex 8
Page Z of 2
- Validation and Accreditation: Information on national and regional
validation and accreditation bodies such as ABET (USA), CNAM (UK), etc.
-   Journals.
Subscription and recent (5 year) collection of relevant
publications such as:
"Engineering Education" of the American Society for Engineering
Education (ASEE).
"Education Transactions" of IEEE.
* The "International Journal of Applied Engineering".
Relevant Research and Studies
-   Comparative study of validation and accreditation criteria in North
America, Europe, and the Arab World, with the objective of developing a more
relevant approach to validation and accreditation in Egypt.
-   Study of issues and problems in architectural design of technical
educational facilities, including infrastructure, support, lighting,
safety, ventilation, etc.
-   Study of issues and problems related to the development of appropriate
strategies for maintennce and repair of laboratory equipment.



- 52 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
EGYPT: ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Maintenance Program for Instructional Facilities and Equivment
1.       Adequate preventative maintenance and timely repair of technical
equipment are basic tenets of well-run instructional laboratories and critical
to satisfactory equipment operation, effective instructional programs, and
achievement of maximum service life from such equipment. Instructional
equipment mist normally perform under heavy and constant usage by many
different individuals, usually learners, and is therefore extremely vulnerable
to situations of less than adequate care, thus resulting in frequent
break-downs. Physical facilities used for instructional purposes are also
subject to rapid wear and thus require careful maintenance to prolong their
usable life and obtain the greatest return on investment. A well-conceived
and managed program for maintenance of physical infrastructure and equipment
is thus considered as central and fundamental to this proposed project and
should permeate all aspects of its sub- programs. It is therefore suggested
that provision be made in the project to assist in initiating a special fund
and program for maintenance and repair of instructional equipment in the
engineering and technical teacher education faculties. Plans and initial
support for formally establishing such a maintenance program could be set up
and coordinated by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Actual
implementation of maintenance and repair services must be carried out at the
local level, however, and should be a major concern and priority of each
individual institution with all teaching, research, and technical support
staff being sensitized to its importance.
2.       Procedures for procurement of equipment will normally include
provision of spare parts in bid and subsequent contract prices; however, other
costs are involved in such a maintenance program for which sufficient funds
must be made available. It is therefore proposed that each engineering
faculty participating in the project establish for this purpose a special
Equipment Maintenance Account to be replenished each financial year. It is
further proposed that a limited amount of fuids (perhaps a percentage of the
cost of equipment provided to the project institutions) be made available from
loan proceeds to help establish the respective accounts. In such case, the
loan would finance maintenance accounts during the first two years of
implementation of sub-projects. A condition would be that the institution
agree to maintain the account on an annual basis at the original established
level, with a reasonable incremental increase each year to accommodate
increased costs of operation, for at least the life of the project, though
hopefully on a permanent basis. Local replenishment funds might be provided
to some extent as a line item appropriation in the annual operational budget,
but should normally be supplied principally from other sources; e.g., user
fees in the case of basic laboratories for years 1-3; and user fees plus



- 53 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
industry contributions in the case of the more specialized laboratories for
years 3-5. The institutions should also consider other alternatives of
generating income to help replenish and/or expand the account, such as
assessing a percentage of research, training, and service contract amounts for
this purpose.
3.       A responsible individual, possibly a lecturer, should be appointed in
each institution to coordinate and supervise the equipment maintenance
program. This probably would require about 25 g of the individual's time, at
least for the larger institutions. A critical factor in establishing and
maintaining an effective maintenance and repair program is the recruitment and
retention of qualified and capable technical support staff to carry out the
bulk of the actual maintenance and repair work. To be effective, laboratory
technicians must be trained in equipment theory and proper techniques of
maintenance and repair. Appropriate training locally and, where necessary,
abroad for such staff would be a reasonable activity to include in some sub-
projects. Also, a number of possible salary enhancement schemes should be
explored to encourage capable support staff to remain with the institutions on
a long-term basis. This might take the form of extra assignments for
additional pay, such as expanding the individual's range of responsibilities
to include laboratory preparation and equipment checks after each scheduled
laboratory class, as well as other such strategies.
4.       Establishment of the maintenance program would be initiated by the
director of the PIU who, with assistance from a systems maintenance specialist
consultant, would conduct a survey of existing laboratory equipment in the
various institutions to determine the current procedures and maintenance
needs. On this basis, and with input as appropriate from institutional staff,
an operational maintenance system would be developed. If the proposed system
is acceptable, training on system procedures would be provided for the
maintenance cc- dinator of each institution. At that point, the maintenance
accounts would be set up and, if approved, funds could be transferred.



Annex 10
fT 54                    ~Page  1 of 3
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ACTiTEES DN
THE ENGINEERING EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Lxca Sxprt Sorvice  an  Consultencies
TRp  ot Service              Objective                    Ativities         Duration    mumber at   Total
Ian-Mnths  servces   Man-Months
1)  Project Design, Srepara-   To produe proposals  'Project Conceptualiza-             3           so         174
ti    = an  Siion           tor  ubprects to         tion
the Engineering
Education Development  'Project DOeign
Pregra
'Project Perception and
Proposal subaission
2)  ftyuieal Facilities         To preare and            *Oeign of physical fa-         2           74         146
Preparation                 refurbisb physical       cilities refurbishing
tsailities and infra-   plan
structure in prepar-
ation of equipment      *Supervision of the pre-
delivery                 paration and refurbish-
ing of physical facili-
ties
3)  Equipment Installation      To reeive, install    *Reeive and install, in           1           74            74
nd Cmeissioning            aud commission new       cooperation with vendors
equipmet supplied        nev equipment for engin-
by vendors for engin-   eering subprojecta
sering subprojects.
*Commission equipment and
insure its basic opera-
tions and functions
- 4)  CurriCulum Development      To integrate new        *'evelop moditied curri-        4           74         296
Services                    equipment in the          culum structure to
modified engineering    insure integration of
curriulum                new equipment and labor-
atories in the systen
'Prepare detailed syllabi
incorporating m   labor-
atory  a s
'Prepare and produce
courseware, instruction-
al material, software,
etc. for modified course
5)  Developmt of Laboratory  To develop laboratory  *Oevelop an adequate nun-            2          74           148
Experiments and 8xerises   anual in support ot    bar of laboratory
engineering curricu-    experiments and exercise
1um                      in support of existing
or moditied curriculue
*Prepare and Produce
detailed laboratory
notes and aids to accom-
pany laboratory experi-
ments and exercises.
6)  Equipmet Maintenance        To provide basie         *Coordinate vendors sup-       3           74          222
Services                    equipmet maintenance   port for providing
and repair support       training seminars on new
for new equipment        equipment eaintenane
*Develop basic guidelines
and procedures for
equipment operation,
maintenance and repairs                               _



55                                              Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
t    of et Il_lp            Pellouslp                 Fellowship ,       Oratio    She_ Or   total
Objective                 Ativits           [en1tt           W llo ipn-
11  Fellowhipa teor acadmic  to i1gres A 1raft  *Attackaot to Overes                           Ss          70
3snistretors               the a     itratva       univeraities.
sklls t kn_wledge
at academic edmina-  *Cuetcsied   ert-trm
trator  (den  an       acadmic adainltration
deprtmnt chairsm)    Poora.
7)  Felo_ips for Academic  te  W0ae In a *brt *Attachment to drtmt                             4,        1i
Upgadiag                   t      t Awsi   pr-     In Oversa   =iity
qra* the :o i
backroud of key        aastosisd short-ter,
faclty In support of   cademic progra
-         p ro o e   su p o e t   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
31  flelowips tor              to  able slected       *AttComt to cO er-           3          t           195
Cu"riculs Developmet       taclty to develp        port e         n 
m  comes to sup-    Ove          Uni ity
port propoe  su-
pojiects              *oeA5m5nmt ot eimaler
Comres" 5 progra  in
selected owersom
Universities
teustasised abort-term
acsedemc program In
curriculu development
PCinciPles
eDevelopment of detailed
curriculm incoluding-
conreeware. eoquipen
speaificatim OMd soft-
mean
4)  fellousbipa in modarn     To upgrads the know-  tAttaObmmflt to counter-       a          35          70
Uucation technology        ledge bass, G skils    part dIarm      ntsi
of selected facult     OeeaUiveity
In the use of mdr
educaton tehooy 'isits to Selected rele-
swaft as cpte-         vast deIrtwaat*.
assited  earnng, schools. and troainin
inteactie c~er- centres to assess the
bused vieassem           ms of aedern education
&Cuatomise short-term
academic program In
principes of compter-
assisted learning
afllp  Iest   prelia-
sty stratg  to incor-
poate etduction
technlog  in propose
1)  Fellowships for labor-   to upgrade the knw-  *Attachment to cour-             3           5          1
to   and worksop           ledge bas  nd the       part departmets In
technical support Stoff   technical skills for uoerses univetrsities
laboratory and work-
ohop suapport staft.     ussli   hotar
upgrading progrm
*Visit* to relevant non-
formel training Centres
In industry and to othL r
univereities
5) rFllowhips for Adinis-  To uprade the know-  *Visit* St of                      3           16         46
trativ  Support Staff     ledg  and adminia-       euimet _seiteana a
and Procureumet personnel trotive skills Of        repair programs In rele-
technical support      vent universities.
stAfft.                colgsaIndividual
TO develop euipment
usintetnance a repair *Costomised short-tern
Programs               acade mic progr   in
relevant 
*Short-ter attlchments
to nldnutri  training
centres with a viable
Meintenance, ad oreir
t I rellowship



-56-                                             Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
u' _t SUVic                 chietive                   MtiVities        Duration   *jaw Os  on"
et~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s-hts Sa1ice N]cn 4bto tl                       1
1) nawel eop   t I at lp  tl tO                           & ttheItrams!t li 2i                4           t
r    _  toe r thecar               Irv mn"o                          a * lote dt    t.-
.ac stiem                 awi" in the  el-   genes ot _mliiti@e
aw &  zltion of elevant
iheaT mterIal tor   eOvelep a syste  ra
h  propoend service.  Work sot ter liar
ide t i   for
2)  Devesopment of c_ter-   to develop a c_>-   'Specfy aoqt. insutll             a          4            t
la" acess to releva        tensed system tar      a O..dSI    _aupment
intersetiel eiatntific  acces to inter-           4 softwae
a engiring daatabse    tional sientific
& engineeri  data-   *Provid  tisii    fer
b_e"                   local pemml_
})  toist peraotle         we mist tfulty        *k'oi tehnical aMe-           a          *
lngrs _r *~~~40401                       t_bl to tlqrt  uS
adeinltrat In is     cadaemcemntats
deloping viable
Propsealr  otr sub-    *aveluat  nmd aese p_ r-
.                                M*old tutorial seminars
for factlty
4)    opWmlenu ot Of  quim    t  to a*sst univerri-   'Provide technical *asin-    3           4          la
miutnucau end rpair    tie  in developing a   tane to technical per-
system                     system tar equipmet   sennel in qgyptian
repair sad _aint.n-    universitie  In charg
c_s                    ot such prDam
v evelop base trfrewor
and  uideline tor
equipment repair & min-
'Hold tutorial *seinars 
training workshop tor
_egptian personnel                       _    _
s)  squipdent maintenance      to upgrade the sklls  *Provide technical mists-    a           12          24
and rIp ir  esoultancier                           tance to technical sup-
part staff
'H1le training workshoes
and tutorial semnars in
relevant creas of inter-
est
06) cennim    Oev                 assist tfaculty     *eliver semi" tr ta                                 a
Seomiurs *nd wnorkshops    ncorw  in  dptling    untversity proetssrs in
mdar  curriculum        relevant curriculum de-
dewvloyent methodal-  velca m_ ethodologies
ogl" In their cour"
debvlopent             *To assiot faculty mem-
bers in doptinq eurri-
c"ulu  dvlopment
methodologies in their
cmur
7)  minomm iTehnaolog          To provide sbort-tera  'Short-term basis 4.-        2          20          40
Upwatis   smamax E4ontuggdn   devr-    livered at a"Y
V1U4"dr iS             univemitie to upgri  e
r s nt development in  and prewte an ew rv-vw
relevant modern tch-  ot contemporary develop-
nolegiec               sent in relvant tech-
nologies
'Prowide technical ssise-
tance to factlty members
in trnslating techanlo-
gical development into
_maingtul undergraduat
PC*r
0)  Bducatioenl Technology    ST assis tfaculty      *8ninars co develope-nt       a           4           0
Seminars                      br in appecict-   nd Us of educational
iug and using mern   techology in anginer-
education technology    lng
methods in their cur-
_iclum design         _
'Technal assisnm ce to
tacultr nesn t to fcl-
litata their adoption a
us et of eati_l t=h-
nology in Curriculum



COLLEGE FOR TECHNICAL TEACHERS
PROJECTED INTAKE, ENROLMENT AND OUTPUT
Campus and Branch                    Intake Categories                                                     ACADEMIC YEAR
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      199S     1996
KUBM
Blranehus
Intake - 3 yr graduates                   204       240      240      240       240      240      240       240
Mechanical I                     Intake - 5 yr graduates                      -       60       60        60       60       60        60       60
Intake - University graduates               -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -
2. Mechanical II    Pre-SerX1ce    Total Intake                               204       300      S00       300      300      300       300      300
Total Enrolment                           204       504      804    1,104    1.200    1,200    1,200    1.200
3. Electrical                       total Output                                 -        -        -         -      211      240       240      240
4. Electronics                      Intake - Practical Teachers                  -      160      160       180      180      180       180      180
Intake - Theory Teachers                    -        50       SO       50        SO       SO       50        50
S. Automotive       in-Service      Total Intake                                 -      230      230       230      230      230       230      230
Total Enrolment                             -       230      460      640       820      820      820       820
6. Refrigeration &                  Total Output                                 -        -        -        40       40       184      184      164
Air Conditioning                ----------------------------------------                         ----------------------------------------------
Intake                204       530      530      530       530      530       530      530
SUL-TOTAL          Enrolment              204       734    1.264    1,744    2,020    2,020    2.020    2,020
Output                   -        -        -        40      251      424       424      424
Intake - 3 yrs graduates                    -         -      200      200       200      200      200       200
Intake - S yrs graduates                    -         -        -       50        50       50       SO        10
T. BEfZ SUEF                         Intake - University graduates                -        -        -         -        -        -
Pro-SorXica    Total Intake                                          -      200       250      2S0       2S0      250      250
Branches                         Total Enrolment                              -        -      200      450       700      950       950      950
Total Output                                -         -        -        -         -        -      200       200
1. Mechanical I                     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------
Intake - Practical Teachers                 -         -      140      140       140      140       140      140
2 Mechanical II                     Intake - Theory Teachers                     -        -       SO        50       SO       so        SO       SO
In-Sgrvice   Total Intake                                 -        -       190               190       19       190      190
3. Textiles                         Total Enrolment                              -        -      190       380      520      660       660      660
Total Output                                -         -        -        -        40       40       152      152
4  Construction                     -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intake                   -        -      390      440       440      440       440      440
5. Oecoration                       SI&dIDTAL           Enrolment                -        -      390       830    1,220    1.610    1.610    1.610
Output                       -             -         -       40       40       3S2      352
Intake                204       300      500      550       550      SSO       S60      550
Enrolment             204       504    1,004    1,554    1,900    2,150    2.150    2,150
Output                   -        -        -         -      211      240       440      440
Total                                        Intake                   -       230      420      420       420      420      420       420
Enrolment                -      230      650    1,020    1,340    1,480    1,480    1,480
Output                   -        -        -        40       80      224       3.6      336
Intake                204       530      920      970       970      970       970      970         I.
Enrolment             204       734    1.654    2,574    3,240    3,630    3,630    3,610
Output                   -        -        -        40      291      464       776      76 
4X§0f  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 58 -
Annex 12
Pase I of 2
1111 APPOSIL Ng=I
AMA gEOJtTt Oluf acYPT
mm
1. SUeA   Of  Ih          ASO LOCAL SPE"IAST S tICES
NRU  Or                TOTAL
SCIATY            PaSO       OUEATIOUI   MAU-T        TIHIII                                   TASKS
Teachig Nethods and                                                                    assist staff in (I) Preparing curricula
Curicule Ovelopimnt                                                                    for tte idetifed  Clusttrs of vocational skill trades,
Forein Specialists        4+4*4       6           72        April-July '90 (4)      (ii) develOPing Cmetency bad evaluation and It
iroo ing teaching techniqus.  To train counterpart CTT
Local Specialists             1a       4          7n        Oct '91 - Jan '92 (4)  staff In thes  aspects of technical teacher training.
(3 per specialty)                         Oct 193   Jan 94 (4)
Apori -July I"
edia Desisn.                                                                           To develop good quaity examples of various teehing
Oevelogmnt and Production         1       4           4        March-June  91          aids in ti) written fotam. 0i) audio-visual mdia and
foreign Speialists                                                                 (fit) couteriaed foumt. These techniques wuld also
Local Secialsts              5       4          12        Jun-Seot. '91           be prpared for distance learning situations.  To train
counterpart staff in these techniques.
3mnamnt Informetion Syst                                                               To develop an eduatioal institutional menagnt  systan
Foreign Secialists            1       4           4        May-J  *90              including  i) curriculum load factors. (0i) group size.
July-August '92        (III) staff-student ratios. (iv) space utilization. Lv)
unit cost per student. (vi) tinatabling system and (vi)
student entry  proression and ealoysmnt follow-up.  To
train counterpart staff in Coputer techniques to achieve
these objectives.
Tethnician Training                                                                    TO train senior technician staff in the role of techni-
-Loa  Experts                  2       3            6        July-Augoust '92       cians in educational training institutuns and to develop
technical cmeotence fOr supPort of acaddwc staff.
Equmiinnt Specitication                                                                To assist in the preparation Of L1) eguipment
freign speialists       8             I           a        Mu                      lists. Li) bidding documents and LIII) criteria for
btd evaluation. To train counterpart staff in
procurement procedures.
Sub-Total For.1rn 5oCial  2tz
It. SUMrT OF OVERSEAS FELLuStIIPS
TYPE Or      mUte Of              TOTAL
fItO OF TRAIRIIS  TRAINII1       TRAIEES   WUATIO  MAI-IOSTM    TDNG                                  OfEMCTIVES
Teaching  ethodology      Fellowships  (3 x 20)       4         24    Jan. - April '"       Ovrseas trainine in the technique  of inte-
and Curriculum  evelonunt                                             Jan. - April '91      grated technical teaching including methods for
Jan. - April '92     curriculun developent. assessment and teaching
mthodology.
Technical/Vocational      masters                                     Oct '91 - Sept92    To uporade a limited nu_W  of staff in
tducation                                                             Oct.'92 - SePt. '93   educational theory  nd research techiques.
(6.+6)      12        144
Technician Training       Fellowships        6         4         24   OCt. '91 - Jan. '92  To provide training in the role of tectmicians
in educational institutions.
Tehr Training             Study Tours   (3.4+4)        1         11   Mrch '90              To provide a wider experience of technical
Institutionl Oevelopnt                                                februay '91           teaching and managemnt approaches used in
April '93            countries other than Egypt.
Equi1pe Proeurnt          Fellowhips  I                3           3  Feb '9  - Apr '90    Training In procurmn mthods.
hla*                                                            "I
47UUWA ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ . 



-59-                                                   IUL..
Page 2 of 2
Aa IPIJULC at £09
TEMA tIACKe PKePATn
amSU
_ER OF                  TOTAL
SPCIALTY                P          OSI UIRATOUf    MAmTH   T6IMG                    TASKS
Teathi, Methods ad                                                            To assist staff in ci)  reparing curricula
Curricu   ev elol nt                                                          for the identified clusten  ft vocatiasi skill
Foreign Specialists      4         6          12      March - Jne 92    trades. (i1i developing Ceetency basd evaluatton and
Loal SecilaistS        i                              Oct '9  - Jan  94   (III) Improving teaching tehni4qm. To train Countrart
(C per specialty)                     March -June 3 s    CnT itoving teaching techniques.
Oct 91  J n '92
Equi     Scification                                                          To fdeelop good quality exales of various taching
Foren specialists    S             1           5      May 9                aids in (i) writtn tof. Ci) auo-visal idia and
MIii) Cegitr1ied formot. these techniques ould also
be Prepared for distanc, lrning situatioNs. To train
cowrtrat staft in thes techniques.
Media  Wesn.                                                                  To develop an eduatinal institutional managet systm
keveloint mnd Production                                                      including C1) eurriculum load factors. (Ii) gro. size.
Foreign Specialists    1          4           4      Oct. 93-Jan. 94      (iii) staff-student ratios. Civ) space utilitatian. (v)
Local Secialists      5           4          12      Oct. 93-Jan. 94      unit tast  er student. (vi) titntabling systn and Cvii)
studont entry. progesion and   lojyint follow-up. To
train Counterpart staff In computer techniques to achiev
these objectives.
Msn nat Information Sstm                                                      To train senior technician staff in the role of techni-
foraein Seialists    1            4           4      Oct.-4Sov. '91       cians In educattonal trasining insttutaions an  to develop
July-August *93     technical c retence for suport of academic staff.
Technician Training                                                           To assist in the peparation of Ci) equint
Local EsgertiU        S           2           6      July-Agst '93        lists, (ii) bidding doc_nts and (III) criteria for
bid evaluation. To train counterprt staff in
procurmnt procedures.
sub-Ttal feru1en Smal lalSt  
Sub-TotalLoal       minitau          32
11. SLULY OF OVRSEAS   L*MIPS
TYPE OF   W seE  OF                 TOTAL
fIELO OF TRNING          TRAINI        TRINES    OUIrATIN   M       TI    TDIMING               JECTIES
Teaching Methdology      fellohWps  (24x2)         4         192          Oct.'94-Jan. '92    Overse  training in the techniques of
Oct. '94-Jan. '95   integrated technical teaching including
athtods for cureiculu. devel0ent.
assesnt and teaching ethodology.
Technical/Vocational     Mastr         (6 + 6)    12          144         Oct '92 - Sept 93   To upgrae A limited mer of staff in
Education                                                                 Oct. *93 - sept '4  eduational theor  and research
tbuticn                                                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teQlniqua.
Technician Training      Fellowships  6            4         24           Oct '92 - jan '93   To prido training in the role of
tehnicians In educational institutions.
Tece Training            Study Tours  (3+4+4)      1         11           tarch '92            To proide a wider experience Of
Institutional Oeveloent                                                   February '93         technical teahing nd a anagnt
Oct. "              apoaches used in Countries
other than Egypt.
Su*Wl                                                iZ1
*,UvovaW



- 60 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
Implementation Action Plan
Establshment of the Industrial Education Colleges (EECs)
Activity                          Completion Date for Bank Review
Refurbishing of Kubba site
1.  finalization of general designs            September 1989
administrative block
. classroom blocks
. auditorium
'library
* computer laboratory
*reproduction workshop
2.  phased renovation and extension of facilities
 phase I                                 M4arch 1990
 phase II                                March 1991
, phase III                               March 1992
3.  fiaal designs for refurbishing of         May 1990
laboratories and workshops
4.  refurbishment of laboratories and workshops
. phase I                                 July 1991
. phase II                                July 1992
Construction of Beni-Suef site
1.  finalization of general designs            September 1989
. administrative block
. classroom blocks
. auditorium
. library
. computer laboratory
. reproduction workshop



- 61 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
Activity                           Completion Date for Bank Review
2.  construction of general buildings               September 1990
3.  final designs for laboratories                  January 1990
4.  final designs for adaptation of workshops       January 1990
5.  construction of laboratories and adaptation    January 1991
of workshops
Development of a Technical Teachers Training Plan
1.  preparation of updated development plan         January 1990
for technical education (future role of
technical education vis-a-vis general
education and other modes of training,
enrolments by specializations in secondary
schools and post-secondary institutes)
2.  preparation of plan for upgrading curriculum   February 1990
in technical schools and institutes,
including clustering of specielizations
3. assessment of demand for technical teachers    March 1990
by areas of specialization
4.  preparation of curriculum structure for         April 1990
the Industrial Education Colleges
. curriculum plan
. specializations
. subjects
. topics
. admission tests and procedures
. pedagogical evaluation
5.  finalization of curriculum details for the
IEC program
. first and second years                       August 1990
. third year                                   August 1991
. fourth year                                  August 1992



- 62 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
Activity                                Completion Date for Bank Review
Equipment
1.  finalization of equipment lists,               May 1990
equipment layout, and services
layout, to be prepared with TA
commencing March 1990
2. procurement of equipment for
Kubba campus                                  March 1991
3. procurement of equipment for
Beni-Suef campus                              July 1992
Transition plan for the existing teacher
training schools and university departments
of industrial education                                March 1990
Staffing Plan for the Industrial Education
Colleges
1.  finalization of staff structure,               May 1990
qualification and experience
requirements, and recruitment plan
2.  recruitment of staff - phase I for             July 1990
Kubba campus
3. recruitment of staff - phase I for              July 1991
Beni-Suef campus
4. recruitment of staff - phase II for
Kubba campus                                  July 1991
5.  recruitment of staff - phase II                 July 1992
for Beni-Suef campus
In-service training program for existing
teachers in secondary technical schools
1. assessment of number and categories of           February 1990
teachers needing in-service training
2.  finalization of forms and modes of in-         May 1990
service training
3.  finalization of phased plan for in-             September 1990
service training of existing teachers



- 63 -
Annex 13
Page : of 4
Activity                                    Completion Date for Bank Review
Legal and administrative arrangements
for degree award                                          January 1990
Plan for integration of roles of teachers
of theory and workshop instructors
1.  development of modified system of                    July 1992
integrated technical education at all
levels (curriculum and examination system)
2.  preparation of plan for deployment of new            May 1993
teachers
* scheduling
, definition of characteristics of effective
schools and institutes
* identification of most effective schools
and institutes for deployment of new
integrated technical teachers
, program to allocate new teachers as teams in
selected schools and institutes
3.  preparation of a plan to modify the systems of       May 1993
administration and inspection adapted to the
new role of the technical teachers in the
integrated system
4790Vp3 I



- 64 -
Annex 14
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Summarv Acount by Promeet Comonent
(LE Millon)
ENGINEERING EUCATION DEVELPMENT PRORA
-C--OLLE----- ---------     COLLSE FOR TECHNICAL
PECIALIZED    POECT    EMUIPNT AND                 EAChERS                    Phscal
ENINEERING  PMEPARATION       PHYSICAL      ---     ---      ---            CoAtdnenid
PROAM      ASSISTANCE   INFRASTRUCTURE    KUBA   BMNI - S'JEF                 ------
EMMENT   SERVICES           MAINTEN         INSTITU     INSTITUT    Total    I         RW t
I. INVESTNT COSTS
A. REFURBISHIN         .                 2.4             -                -        4.1          5.9   12.5   10.0      '.2
Bo EOUIPMENT                            24.7             -              0.1        8.9          3.4   42.2   10.0      4.2
Co INSTRUCTIONa  MATERIALS               2.5           0.2                -        0.5          0.4    3.7   10.0      0.4
B. FELWLSIPS                             2.8             -              0.3        2.3          2.3    7.7   10.0      0.3
E.  PECIALISTS                           1.7           1.7             o.O                      1,7    6.8   10.0  6 .7
F. IN - SERVICE TINING                     -             -                -        1.8          1.2    3.1   10.0      0,3
Total INVESTMT COSTS                       34.2           1.9              O's       1.94         19.9   76.0  '0.0       7
II. RE     N  COSTS
a. MAINTENANCE                            -             -              1.2          -            -    1.2   10.0      3;
Total RECURM   COSTS                          -             -              1:2          -            -    1.2   10.0      0.1
Total  AELINE CoSTS                  .      34.2           1.9              1.7       19.4         19.9   77.2   10.0      7,.
Piwsical Conting ies                      3.4           0.2              0.2        1.9          2.0    7.7    0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                      28.7           1.2              1.2       15.4         16.7   63.2    9.1    'Q.
Total PRJECt COSTS                          66.3           3.3              3.1       36.7         38.6  148.1    9,1    13.5
===X=-S-33=S==--:- #=  =S=    =:5 :S:=a== =: _--:_:
Taxes                                     0.5             -                -        1.0          1.3    2.8    9.1      3*.3
Foreig  Exdm                             58.7           2.6              1.6       269          28.4  1:182    9.1    1.7
sptmbep'11 lm     16:39



- 65 -
Annex 15
UNtIT AREA AND UNIT COSTS PER STUDENT/PLACE
Institutions        Number of            Area in M2          Uinit Areas     .JUnit Cost I
Total Costs $     Student Places    Academic   Workshops  School Median   School  Median
Kubkba                1.750           S,700            -     3.16)
)   7.00    1.170  4.900
$2,950,000             750                -       3.100      4.13)
Beni  uetf            1,575           4.000            -     2.53)
)   7.00      8.40  4.900
$1.890.000             675                -       3.375      5.00)
Furniture (both
institutes)         3,325                 Total a $1,000.000                   225    324
Laboratory
Equipment           13.865                 Total S $  830.000                   600    n/a
Workshop
Equipment             1.425                Total a $2,850.000                 2.000    n/a
4790VP34



- 66 -
Annex 16
RECURRENT BUDGET OF EXISTING TEACHER TRAINING SCHOOLS
AND PROJECTED BUDGET OF IECs
(Egyptian Pounds)
Expenditure             Other      Total      Kubba      Beni        Total
Categories    Kubba     Schools   Existing   (IEC)        Suef       IECs
Schools
Salaries     475,000  1,425,000 1,900,000   750,000    656,000  1,406,000
Utilities     15,200      45,000    60,200    20,000      17,500     37,500
Consumables    8,400      15,000    20,400   100,000      87,500    187,500
Maintenance      800      10,000    13,800    60,000      52,500    112,500
Expenditures 499.400  1,495,000 1,994,400   930,000    813,500  1,743,500
Revenues      31,500    100,000   131,500   100,000       90,000    190,000
(fees &
Production wk)
Government   467,900  1,395,000 1,862,900   830,000    7231500  1,553,500
contribution
Source: MOE and Bank mission estimates



- 67 -
Annex 17
INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION COLLEGES
EQUIFmENT PROCUREMENT SCHEDUIE
A. KUBA
Procurement to be in Three Tranches:
1. Administrative/Audio Visual
II. Laboratories
III. Workshops
Preparation of Equipment Lists
Review by Bank                              June 1990
Prearation of Bid Documents
Review by Bank                              July 1990
Invitation to bid Tranche      I                 September 1990
II                March      1991
III              September 1991
Evaluation/Review by Bank      I                 February 1991
-I               August   1991
III              February 1992
Delivery to Site and           I                 July      1991
Installation              II                January  1992
III              July      1992
Utilization, Familiarization  II                 December 1991
Training                  III               December 1992
D. BENIB-EP
Procurement to be in Two Tranches
Invitation to bid  Tranche    I                  July       1990
Invitation to bid  Tranche   II                  December  1990
Evaluation/Review by Bank      I                 January   1991
Evaluation/Review by Bank    II                  May        1991
Delivering to site             I                 June       1991
and Installation           II                 October   1991
Utilization/Familiarization   I                  December  1991
Training                    I                 February  1992
Books/Training Lids
Negotiations with selected
suppliers/book jobbers                        Junuar7   1991
Acquisition period up to                         December  1991



-68-                            Annex 18
Page I of 3
ARA REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENSINEERINS AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
1. FOREIGN SPECIALISTS                         (uan-uonth)
Component and category           1990     1991     1"92      1993     1994     19M     Total
Technical Teather Training
- Teaching methods and             20       20       20       20         8        I       94
curiculum development
- Equipament specifications        13                                                     13
-  edia design, development                  4                  3        1                 8
and production
- Nanagement information            2        2        2        2                           I
system
Sob-Total               35        26       22       25        9         8      In
Enineering Education
- Libraryreuources                  2        2        2         2                         t
planning
- Establisbnt of                    2        2        2        2                           8
compterized data bas
- Projct prqWation                  2        2        2         2                           8
eminars
- Eqaipnt mintenance                4        4        4         4                         24
- currbauidevelmpunt,              1        10        a         a                         3
mOdii tKhnoloqy  nd
educational tKhnolY
seminars
- International Advisory            3        3        3         3                          12
Comitte
Sob-Total               25        25       23       23        0         0       9Y
Total                            60       51       45        4         9        8      221



- 69 -
Anmex 18
Page 2 of 3
ARM REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ENSINEERUIS AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
2. LOCAL SPECIALISTS                           (man-manthl
Component and category          199O     1991      I992     1993     1994     I9M   Total
Tecbnical Teacher Training
- Teaching  ethods and            40       40        18 to
curriculum development
- iedia desiqn, development                12                 8         4                24
and production
Tehnician Training                                 6         b                         12
Sub-Total               40       52       24        14        4        0      134
Engineering Education
- Project preparation             45       54        42       33                        174
- Physical facilities             40       50       36       22                         140
preparation
- Equipment installation          20       25        Is       11                         74
- Curriculum developmnt           80      100       72        44                        296
- Development of laboratory        0       50        36       22                        146
epuiment.
- Equipmt mintenance              60       75       54        33                        222
Sub-TotaI              295      354      258   -16S          0         0     1062
Total                          325      406      292       179        4        0     1196



- 70 -
Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EBYPT
EN6INERIN  AND TECHICAl. EDUCATION PRWECT
tECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
3. FELLONIIFHS                               (man-month)
Component and category         l990    1991    1992    1993    1994         195   Total
Tchnical Teachcr Training
- Teaching aethods and           40       so       84       20       72      24      320
curiculum develwmnt
- Bachelorsllasters in                    19       90      126      54               218
Tchnical Education
- Tecinician Training                     18       24        6                        40
- Equipmet Prncurent              3                                                    3
Nanaguent
- Study Tours                     3        4        4        8        3               22
Sub-Total              46      120      202      160      129       24      681
Enginering Education
- Aadmic Administration          20       20       20       10                        70
- Acadeic Upgrading              40       56       48       44                        196
- Curriculua Aelopuent           51       63       48       33                        195
- Education Technology           20       20       20       10                        70
- Laboratory Technician          51       63       48       33                        19
Training
- Naintenance'Personnel          12       12       12       12                        48
Training
Sub-Total             202      234      196      142                        774
Total                         248      354      398      302      129       24     1455



- 71 -
Annex 19
Page I of I
ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRB Fiscal           Disbursements                Disbursement Profile
Year and      Semester Cumulative  Balance   This Project/a  Country Average
Semester             - (US$ million)             (S)
1991
1             0.5        0.5      30.0           1.5              1.0
2             1.4        1.8      28.7           6.0              5.0
1992
1             1.8        3.7      26.8          12.0             11.0
2             2.4        6.1      24.4          20.0             18.0
1993
1             5.8       11.9      18.6          39.0             24.0
2             5.8       17.7      12.8          58.0             34.0
1994
1             4.6       22.3       8.2          73.0             44.0
2             4.6       26.8       3.7          88.0             54.0
1995
1             1.2       28.1        2.4         92.0             63.0
2             1.2       29.3       1.2          96.0             72.0
1996
1             0.6       29.9       0.6          98.0             82.0
2             0.6       30.5       0.0         100.0             92.0
NOTE:  Closing Date - December 31, 1995
la This profile shows cumulative disbursement percentage estimates
for the Project.
/b This profile was constructed using historical data from past
education projects in Egypt.
91 1 3V



