Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8378
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GAMBIA
FIRST ENERGY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1187-GM)
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MFT              Ministry of Finance and Trade
MEPID            Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development
19nCL            Ministry of Local Government and Lands
GUC              Gambia Utilities Corporation
UNSO             UN Sahelian Office
COMSEC           Commonwealth Secretariat
ORGATEC          Societe Africaine d'Etudes Technic,:1es
ARL              Atlantic Resources Limited
CGG              Compagnie GenFrale de Geophysique
GTZ              Gesellschaft fur Technisch Zuzammenarbeit
SDR per Dalasi
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Local Currency: Dalasi -            .3464   .2360   .2630   .1101   .1095



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OmCAUL USE ONLY
Washmgtoon. DC 20I33
U.S A
01Ze ad Oswtv..w.
February 6, 1990
MEHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Gambia
First Energv Project (Credit 1187-GCE
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
C-ompletion Report on gambia - First E-nergy Project (Credit 1187-GM)" propared
by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This documat hu a nstriced disbutb  and may be wd by ucipisa on is th pwfw -an
of their ofAcial dutIts contens may n othewie be dikeuecd witout WoM Dnk auhor on



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
FIRST EWARGY PROJECT
CREDIT 1187e-G
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TAM  OF CONTENTS
Preface           .........................  ..... . *  *.0 ...............I
Basic Data Sheet       ...........              ....................... ii
Highlights ........................................................ v
I#   INTRODUCTION                . ... ............... 1
II.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. .. ... .. ...................... 2
A.  Eaergy Master Plan               .. ........... 2
B. Petroleum Exploration Promotion                  . .   3
C.  Preparation of the Petroleum Law .................. 4
D.  Promotion Seminar ....                  ............... . 5
E.  MSGBC Regional Study .............................. * *  *    5
F.  Power Distribution   .......................... . 6
G.  Forestry Study Component .......................... 8
HII   Civil Work       .............................             8
I.  Geological Unit Equipment ......................... 8
J.  Procurement ................................................. 8
K.  Accounting - Audit ...................           ............ . 9
L.  Training .......................................... 9
M.  Comments on the Implementation of the Project .... 10
N.  Financial Aspect and Disbursements ......4 ... 11
0. Perfonmance of Consultants                     .       .4.. 11
P.  IDA's Performance .. .................... .... 12
Q.  Borrower's Performance ......... *...   .......  . .12
IlI.   CONCLUSION ........................................... 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents ma y not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



i
GAMIA                                                L.
FIRST ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1187-04)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
Credit 187-GM, in the amount of SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million
equivalent), was approved on November 3, 1981, to finance the Energy
Project. The project was intended to support the Borrower's effort to
intensify hydrocarbon exploration in the country's sedimentary basin, to
assist the Borrower in strengthening its electric power sector and to help
the Borrower in its efforts to combat desertification. The project was
also intended to complement the preparation of an Energy Master Plan
financed by Government and the U.N. Sahelian Office, for which the Bank was
the Executing Agency. The closing date of the credit was extended by two
and a Lalf years up to June 30, 1987. A sum of SDR 56,000 from the credit
amount remained undisbursed and was cancelled, resulting in a total
disbursement from the loan of SDR 1,244,000.
The Project Completion Report was prepared by the Africa Technical
Department, Industry and Energy Division, based on a draft presented by the
Borrower, and on reports, documents and data in the project file.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on November 21, 1989 for comments
by December 31, 1989, but none were received.



ii
EN8RGY PROJECT
(Credit 1187-QI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SUIT
KU PROJECT DATA
APPRAISAL     ACTUAL      ACTUAL AS S
EXPECTATION               OF APPRAISAL
ITEM                                                 ESTIMATES
Total Projet Cost                     1.3         1.244           96
(US$ milli n)
Credit Amount                         1.3
(US$ million)
No Cofinancing
Date Physical
Components completed               12/31/a4    early 1988
Proportion completed
by that date                                   1OOZ
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY                       82      83     84     85     86      87     88
Appraisal Estimate        .10    .70    .70
Cumulative                .10    .80   1.50
Actual Cumulative       0.00    .52    .79    .88   1.0    1.16   1.24
Actual Z of Appraisal    0        65     53     59    67       77     83
Date of the last disbursements April 8, 1988



iii
Project Dates
Actual as of
Z of Original
Original        Actual         Plan
First mention in the File            02/25180
Identification                       10131180
Project Brief                        12/04/80
Negotiations                         06/12/81
Beard Approval                       11/03/81
Signing Date                        04/27/82
Effectiveness                        04/27/82
Closing Date                         12/31/84           06/30/87    100Z
Staff Input (Staff-Weeks)
80    81    82    83    84    85    86    87    88    89
Identification/
Preparation    .2  25.8
Appraisal              5.6   1.8
Negotiation             .7   2.5
Supervision                  3.9   8.7   7.6   7.3   8.9   3.9
PCR                                                                2.3   1.0
Subtotal          .2  32.1   8.2   8.7   7.6   7.3   8.9   3.9   2.3   1.0
TOTAL   87.8



iv
MISSION DATA
Month/  No. of  No. of      Total    Date of   Desti-
Year    Days   Persons  Manweeks   Report    nation
Preidentification    04180       3       1         .6     05(16/80    Banjul
Preidentification    09180       1       1         .2     10/'4J80    Paris
Identification          -       10       1        2       10/31/80    Banjul
Supervision           11181      1       1         .2     12/01/81    Banjul
Supervision          03/82       4       2        1.6     04/19/81    Banjul
Surervision           04/82      8       4        6.4     05/26/82    Banjul
Supervision           05/82      5       1        1       06/16/82    Banjul
Supervision          03/83       4       2        1.6     05/17/83    Banjul
Supervision           08j83      4       1         .8    {08/19183    Banjul
{09/28/83
Supervision          08/83       1       1         .2     10/1e/83    Lisbon
Supervision           03/84      2       3        1.2     04/16/84    Banjul
Supervision          09/84       4       2        1.4     11/30/84    Banjul
Supervision          10/85       2       1         .4     11/07/85    Ianjul
Supervision          10/85       1       1         .2     11/22/85    Lisbon
Supervision           03/86      4       1         .8     04/14/86    Banjul
Supervision           10/86      5       1        1       02/13/87    Banjul
Revised
Report
Sixteen missions totalling                       19.6
Follow-up:  Assistance to GUC will be carried on through a new IDA-financed
water and electricity project.
Borrower:             The Republic of The Gambia
Executing Agencies:  Initially the Ministry of Local Government and Lands,
then the Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development (MEPID)
FY of the Borrower   July 1 - June 30



v
FIRS? KIRY PROJEC?
(Credit 1187-GK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HGIGLIGHTS
i.       The Gambia is geographically surrounded on three sides by Senegal.
The country's total land area of the 10,630 square kilometer lies entirely
within the lower basin of the Gambia River. The population is estimated at
690,000, giving a population density of 70 persons per square kilometer.
ii.      The Gambian economy is based on agriculture and commerce.
Agriculture is dominated by ground nut production which is the country's main
source of foreign exchange, and it is the basis of the major industrial
activity, ground nut milling. Activities in the modern sector are based on
commerce and transport and reflect Gambia's role as an entrepot serving parts
of Senegal and neighboring Sahelian countries.
iii.     Energy consumption during the late 19*0s was estimated at 244 Kg
(kilograms of oil equivalent) per capita, which is in the lowest tier in the
world. Of this total 75Z consisted of wood fuel, while imported petroleum
products met the balance.
iv.      The Gambia's energy endowment is modest.  No hydrocarbon production
has been yet established, although there is some hope for the discovery of
economically exportable oil and gas deposits. All power generators rely on
imported light crude used as diesel fuel. Extensive use of fuel wood,
associated with increased farming, has led to a serious depletion of forestry
resources.
v.       The Government had been experiencing difficulties in servicing the
country's oil import bill. This became acute, particularly in the late
seventies and early eighties, when poor groundnut production and low export
prices reduced foreign exchange earnings to critically low levels. In a bad
year such as 1980/1981, when the country was particularly hit by the poor
groundnut harvest, oil import absorbed about 702 of foreign exchange
earnings.
vi.      The import, storage, distribution and sales of petroleum products
were, and still are, handled by four major private companiess Shell, BP,
Mobil and Texaco, with the Ministry of Finance and Trade (M.F.T.) regulating
the prices of these products.



vi
vii.     Responsibility for the energy sector is divided among a number of
government institutions. Aside the M.F.T., the Ministry of Local Government
and Lands is responsible for petroleum exploration through its inadequately-
staffed geological unit. The Gambia !Jtilities Corporation (C.U.C.) is a
government owned company responsible for the generation and supply of
electricity. The Department of Forestry, within the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources oversees the use of forestry resources, including
firewood and charcoal. Finally, the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (MEPID) is responsible for energy planning in the
country.
viii.    Oil companies have been engaged in exploration on and off in the
Gambia since 1956. Three exploration wells have been drilled to date; two
onshore in 1960 by British Petroleum, and one offshore in early 1975 by
Chevron, all of them dry. At the start of the project, Elf-Aquitaine was
holding an oil exploration license, where they only conducted seismic
surveys, but the company would soon totally relinquish its acreage
(April 83). Furthermore, Saroa Petroleum Limited was granted an oil
exploration license in 1981, but since the company's activities were
minimal, its application for renewal of the license was not approved.
ix.      The relevant legislation governing the petroleum industry was the
Mining Act of 1954, the Income Tax Act and the Development Act of 1973. The
Mining Act empowered the Minister of Local Government and Lands to issue oil
explor.tion licenses and oil development and production leases.  The legal
and fiscal regimes were of a conventional concession type. Areas in need of
revision included financial provisions, minimum work and expenditure
provisions, and the extent and scope of Ministerial discretion in setting
license terms.
X.       During the latter half of the 1970's, the quality of the electricity
service had been declining. Problems with system reliability and severe
generator malfunctions had kept GUC from supplying electricity to many
existing customers and from expanding service to waiting customers. The
system had 50 percent greater capacity in 1970 than in 1980. In addition to
reliability problems at the time of credit approval, GUC was facing _inancial
difficulties, because of both declining revenues, and increasing unit costs.
The main causes for the problems besetting the power sector, as diagnosed by
IDA, was the physical state of the GUC's facilities, the lack of spare parts,
inadequate training of its staff, and weaknesses in management.
xi.      The Gambia is victim of severe deforestation and consequent
deterioration and erosion of soil. An aerial survey of land-cover in 1968
demonstrated that half of the heavy forest and woodland existing at the
beginning of this century had disappeared. An estimate made by the
Department of Forestry, concluded that there had been an additional 20
percent reduction in forest land. It is for this reason that, beginning on
July 1, 1980, the production of charcoal was banned, and the sale of charcoal
halted in September 1980. Small scale reaffozestation programs have been



vii
implemented under the financing of different donors. These programs needed
to be expanded. Identified needs in this field lncludeds
-   better management of the Gambia forest;
-   establishment of fast growing tree plantations and
-   a reduction in fuelwood consumption by households.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
GAMBIA
FIRST ENERGY PROJECT (CREDIT 1187-GM)                                    H
i. IMMODUCOI
1.       The Governmenc's concern for the unfavorable energy outlook was
refleoted in t!  energy development policy. This was outlined in the
Second Five-Year Plan thus, (i) to secure adequate energy supplies to meet
future requirements of the economy; and (i!) to minimize the cost of energy
to economy. For this purpose, the Government obtained financing from the
United Nations Sudano- Sah'lian Office (UN80) to implement an energy survey
and Master Plan,
2.       Upon the first IDA Petroleum mission to the Gambia, which took
place in April 1980, the Government requested the Association, through a
letter dated April 16, 1980, to consider providing technical assistance to
the Gambia for the various aspects of the energy sector. The Government
also requested IDA to ezplore with NM80 whether IDA could act as
implementing agency for the assaistance this UN agency would give to the
country.
3.       IDA agreed on the principle of a petroleum projecu and to act as
executing agency for the preparation of the Energy Master Plan. The latter
form of assistance, which would not require any ID  financing, was
conceived as complementary to the project, and not as part of it.
4.       Although the initial request from the Government only included
assist6nce related to petroleum affairs, this request was enlarged, at the
pre-appraisal stage, to the financing of the cost of electricity
distribution work which was considered crucial to increase the reliability
and safety of the power system. Also added was the financing of a limited
feasibility study for the expansion of the Government's reafforestation
programs and the strengthening of the forestry Kirvice.
5.       As a preliminary condition to the effectiveness of the Agreement,
the Government was to draw up a financial plan for GUC which was to
include: (i) tariff increase on sales of electricity; (ii) increase of
Government equitys (Cii) meeting losses on GUC's provincial operation; and
(iv) payment by the Government to GUC of the amount needed to cover GUC's
operating deficits incurred up until FY76, as required under the
Infrastructure and Tourism Project Credit Agreement 602 GM. A financial
recovery plan of GUC was presented to IDA and accepted by the Association
in 1981.
6.       The credit was approved by the Board on November 3, 1981, and
became effective on April 27, 1982. The Credit amount was SDR 1.3 million,
or US$ 1.5, at dollar/SDR exchange rate prevailing at the date of signature
of the Credit Agreement. The Credit amount was totally disbursed except
for SDR 56,000, which were cancelled. The initial closing date of the
"redit was December 31, 1984.  Through three extensions, it was postponed
to June 30, 1987.



- 2-
11. PROJECT IHPLDEENT&TIOI
7.       The Project had three components:
(i)  Exploration Promotion
(ii)  Power Distribution
(iii)  Improvement of Management of Forest Resources
Furthermore, IDA was to act as oxecuting agency for the preparation of the
Energy Master Plan co-financed by UNSO (USS 100,000) and the Government
(USS 200,000 out of which US$ 100,000 were to be disbursed in local
currency).
A. Energy Master Plan
8.       The objectives set forth by the Go-rnment were:
(i) to make projections of a supply/demand energy balance for the
period 1981-1990, and tentatively, 199G-2000;
(ii)  to formulate energy pricing policy;
(iii)  to define development options and define investment priorities for
the energy sector; and
(iv)  to make recommendations regarding managerial issues, and
contingency planning for petroleum and other fuel shortfalls.
9.       A call for bids was sent to four companies, Energy Resources
Limited, of G.B., Centro de Technologia Promon of Brazil, Energy
Development International of US, and ORGATEC, of Senegal; this latter was
awarded the consulting contract to implement the energy study and prepare
the Master Plan. The contract was signed on March 20, 1981.
10.      The preparation of the Master Plan was closely supervised by IDA.
Successively, an interim report, the first draft of the report, and the
preliminary final report, were carefully analyzed and exhaustively
commented upon. ORGATEC submitted its final report in May 1983. This
report was exhaustive, delivered an in-depth analysis of The Gambian Energy
Sector, and concluded with appropriately focussed recommendations.
11.      The report concludes recommending two types of actions:  i) those
geared towards a better use of available resources and energy saving, some
of which do not require technical or financial inputs, and ii) those geared
towards the development of resources and alternatives which require
technical and financial assistance. Detailed recommendations are given !n
the field of forestry, petroleum and electricity projects. The project
under review addressed the most crucial issues listed in ORGATEC report.



-3-
B. Petroleum Exploration Promotion
12.      This component of the project was to be implemented by the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development (HEPID), and
includedt
(i) the retrieval, compilation and integration of existing geological
and geophysical data;
(ii) re-processing of selected seismic lines;
(iii) sale of information evaluating the petroleum potential of the
Borrower, in view of promoting to oil industry the sedimentary
basin of the country;
(iv) negotiation of exploration contracts, if any;
(v)  the review of the Borrower's legal and contractual framework for
exploration
Cvi) on-the-job and overseas training of selected staff of the
Borrower's Geological Unit;
(vii) procurement of office and storage equipment for the Borrower's
Geological Unit; and
(viii) participation in a geological study covering the sedimentary basin
of The Gambia, the Republic of Senegal, and the Republic of Guinea
Bissau.
13.      In order to prepare the regional study and to arrange the
promotion, the Borrower proposed to negotiate a contract directly with
Atlantic Resources Limited (ARL), of Portugal, without asking proposals
from any other firms. ARL was involved in similar work in Senegal and
Guinea Bissau, and it seemed to be to the advantage of The Gambia to retain
them. The proposed ARL contract was approved by the Cabinet in August
1982, and by the Association on December 13, 1982. ARL started their vork
in early 1983.
14.      Since 1982, PetroCanada had proposed to use a Canadian Government
grant of US$1.5 million to finance an exploration assistance project
consisting of acquisition of 600 kilometers of new seismic lines and
reprocessing of 1000 km of existing seismic lines. After Elf-Aquitaine
relinquished its acreage in April 1983, PetroCanada signed with the
Government an agreament dated April 28, 1983, according to which they
implemented their project, which was completed before July 1983, thus
filling the gaps in the structural information.
15.      An amount of US$20,000 was allocated in the IDA Credit budget for
seismic reprocessing. A test conducted on PetroCanada's seismic survey
data resulted in a noticeable improvement. Reprocessing was consequently



- 4 -
extended to 255 kilometers, and the Compagnie Generale de Geophysique
(C.G.G.) was selected from a limited agreed shortlist to carry out this
work, which it did for a total cost of US$26,000.
16.      ARL analyzed all available seismic sections, including newly
reprocessed data, and issued in January 1984 a report concerning the
reinterpretation of geophysical data, offshore and onshore The Gambia. The
results of this report were later integrated in the regional geological
study, which was subsequently prepared to cover the territories of
Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea and Guinea Bissau (see para. 37).
17.      ARL presented in autumn 1984 the first draft of the synthesis
geological study. A Bank mission visiting The Gambia in November 1984,
reviewed this draft and, subject to some modification, found it acceptable.
However, the preparation of the revised draft was delayed by the need to
integrate in the report the technical data obtained from neighboring areas,
and by the time taken by NEPID to present their own comments on the draft.
These were sent on October 24, 1985, upon which ARL issued their final
report. In order to improve the report's effectiveness in presenting its
conclusions to oil companies, IDA insisted that the report should be
reviewed and edited by a well-known explorationist consultant.
Mr. Peter Temple, from Albuquerque, New Mexico. was selected for the job.
The product obtained was good, technically speaking, but the report
conclusions were rather pessimistic with regard to the prospectivity of the
country (only ill-defined stratigraphical plays are present, source-rock
maturation is uncertain, local existence of Paleozoic is doubtful).
C. Preparation ce the Petroleum Law
18.      The Borrower and IDA agreed that the role of consultants in
updating The Gambia's petroleum legislation should be fairly limited, based
on the existing Mining Act, and the associate regulations. Upon a request
for proposals sent to five consultants, Surrey and Morse, of Great Britain,
were selected by the Borrower, and IDA approved. However, as this company
proposed a high fee to extend their work to the preparation of a Model
Agreement, MEPID decided then to cancel their contract and to entrust to
the Commonwealth Secretariat (COMSEC) the updating of the Petroleum
legislation.
19.      Upon COMSEC's recommendations, the Government passed the Petroleum
Act 1985, which regulated petroleum exploration and production in The
Gambia. The Act provided two types of licenses: (i) the Petroleum
Reconnaissance license, directed primarily at geological and geophysical
survey to obtain information about the sedimentary basin in The Gambia; and
(ii) the Petroleum Production license, which covers both the exploration
and the development and production of hydrocarbons. Under the Act, the
exploration phase of a Petroleum Production licence consists of an initial
period of three years, with two extension periods of two years each,
granted upon fulfillment of work and expenditure obligations. The licensee
has to relinquish 502 of the licensed area at the time of the first
extension, and 25X of the licensed area on the second extension. In the



event of a comiercial discovery, the licensee is entitled to proceed to the
development and production period, in the area concerned, which subsists
for a term of 25 years and may thereafter be renewed for such period and
such terms as may be agreed.
20.      The fiscal regime includess (i) a royalty of 12.5Z of the gross
value of production; (ii) an income tax of 50X; (iii) an additional profits
tax (APT), with the rates of tax to be paid and the returns allowed before
the tax becomes payable, being the subject of negotiation; and (iv) an
option for the state to participate in the license up to a maximum
percentage.
21.      In order to incorporate maximum flexibility in the legislation,
the Petroleum Act 1985 prescribes that there should be no model contract,
each contract being subject to negotiations with oil companies. These
latter would be asked to submit their proposals in respect of a minimum
work program and expenditure obligations.
22.      The new Petroleum Legislation addresses correctly the requirements
of oil companies within the prevailing petroleum prices situation, while
preserving the interests of the country. However, COMSEC 'nsisted on the
inclusion in the Fiscal Regime of an Additional Profit Tax, which is
inappropriate, considering the poor prospectivity of the country.
D. Promotion Seminar
23.      Since The Gambia offshore basin is part of the Senegal basin, and
as ARL had prepared the geological report for both countries, NEPID and
Petrosen agreed, with IDA's concurrence to organize a joint presentation to
the oil industry. The promotion seminar was held in Dakar, Senegal, on
April 23 and 24, 1986. ARL was assisted in the organization of the seminar
by Mr. Peter Temple. The seminar was attended by representatives of many
companies, including important ones (Chevron, Shell, Total, Marathon,
Conoco, and Amoco). Consequently, it was not thought appropriate to
organize any further seminars in Houston, as it had been previously
contemplated.
24.      In spite of the significant attendance in the promotion sesinar,
no proposal for any petroleum exploration production contract was presented
to MEPID. The prospectivitv of The Gambia sedimentary basin did not arouse
the Luterest of the oil inidustry.
E. MSGBC Regional Study
25.      In October 1985, agreement was reached on a joint study of the
Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea Bissau sedimentary basin, in order
to draw a global picture of the geological setting and hydrocarbon
potential of the regional basin. In February 1987, it was further agreed
to integrate the Republic of Guinea (Conakry) sedimentary basin into this
joint study. The contract for the study was awarded to the three
consultants engaged in the area, ARL, BEICIP, and Petroconsultants. The



- 6 -
Gambia agreed to finance 102 of the initial amount budgeted for the MSGBC
study (before the participation of Guinea Conakry). or approximately
US$90,000.
26.      Although each company was specifically responsible for certain
components of the study, since ARL was the exploration consultants for
three out of five countries (Senegal, The Gambia, and Guinea Bissau), they
were also the leader for the preparation of the regional study. As such,
they submitted the first draft of their report in September 1987. Although
the report was generally acceptable technically, it was unanimously agreed
by the five countries and by IDA that it was very poorly written and
unsuitable for presentation to the oil industry. It was consequently
decided to entrust the partial rewriting, and the editing of the report to
an experienced exploration consultant of a high level and reputation.
Since Mr. Peter Temple had very satisfactorily implemented similar work for
the Senegalese and Gambian geological reports, he was selected for this
exercise. In January 1988, Mr. Temple issued a final MSGBC report which
was found acceptable by all parties. Petroconsultants S.A., of
Switzerland, were put in charge of marketing the report.
27.      The MSGBC report, however, does not prove convincingly the
attractiveness of The Gambia basin, and it is unlikely that its publication
would revive the interest of the oil industry in the petroleum exploration
of this country. In the present status of knowledge, such a revival could
only result from a rekindling of the hydrocarbon exploration activities af
oil companies in neighboring areas. Meanwhile, it is not recommended that
The Gambia should spend any more money on petroleum exploration promotion
efforts.
28.      As a consequence of the Project, an energy planning unit was
established within )SPID.  Management of the Project was transferred to
this unit, and the Geological Unit was transferred to MEPID.
F. Power Distribution
29.      The power component of the project included:
(a) procurement of equipment to (i) optimize distribution from two
power stations, (ii) enhance transformer capacity, (iii) reduce
the risk of overloading circuits, (iv) improve substation safety,
and (v) improve low voltage system; and
(b) consultant's service to assist Gambian Utilities Corporation (GUC)
in the improvement of the power distribution network.
30.      Under a previous Tourism and Infrastructure pr.ject (Cr 602 GM),
an expatriate power engineer had been assigned as Managing Director of GUC.
The contract of this engineer expired in August 1982. It was then agreed
that GUC would hire an electrical engineer to implement the distribution
component of the project. However, at the same time, the German Agency for



-7-
Technical Cooperation (G.T.Z.)11, of Frankfurt-am-Main, negotiated with 6UC
a three to four-year technical assistance agreement. Under this contract,
GTZ agreed to place into GUC expatriate experts, to take up the positions
of (i) managing director: (ii) manager, water division; (iii) manager,
electricity division; (iv) generating engineer; and (v) distribution
engineer. This agreement made it unnecessary for IDA to finance the cost
of an expatriate Distribution Development Engineer. In February 1983, GUC
requested, and IDA agreed, to reallocate the sum of US$80,000 originally
earmarked for hiring this engineer, for the purchase of additional
distribution equipment.
31.      Procurement of distribution equipment was carried out in two
stagest
(a) In 1982 and the first half of 1983, GUC purchased electricity
distribution materials, equipment and tools (aluminum conductors
and cables, copper single phase cables, poles, PVC pipes,
insulators, etc.), from the company Jaymike Limited, of London.
This equipment was used in 1983, for the rehabilitation of the low
voltage distribution network in the Banjul, Kombo, New-Bakau and
Old-Bakau areas.
(b) In early 1983, GUC utilized the US$80,000 transferred from the
Consultants' Services category of the project, to purchase, from
Yorkshire Switchgear Group Export Ltd., of U.K., four 500 KVA and
two 315 RVA Distribution Unit Type Substations. These
distribution panels were, soon after their arrival in Gambia,
mounted and Integrated in the distribution network of Banjul-Kombo
areas.
32.      The power component of the project was successfully implemented,
according to the credit objectives and to Bank guidelines, within the
forecasted time schedule. With GTZ assistance in the installation of the
delivered equipment, the power distribution of the Banjul area was
significantly improved.
33.      However, although a financial recovery plan had been drawn up by
GUC as a preliminary condition to the effectiveness of the Agreement, GUC
never did implement completely this plan. In spite of the increase in
electricity tariff, the financial status of GUC remained worrisome during
most of the project. However, in FY87 GUC showed an operating surplus for
the first time since its inception. As part of a new IDA-financed Water
and Electricity project, this improved financial performance is being
consolidated. As part of public sector management policy reforms a
Performance Contract was prepared for 6UC in 1986 and became effective in
January 1988.
1/ GTZ stands for *Gesellschaft fur Technische ZuzamnenarbeitO.



G. Forestry Study Component
34.      Due to the alarming rate of the deforestation occurring in The
Gambia, and consequent deterioration of soils, many donors were, at the
start of the project, involved in the Forestry Sector Technical Assistance
(UNSO, USAID, GTZ).
35.      In order to avoid duplication and ensure the optimized combined
efforts of these aid programs, it was agreed with the Goverinent that the
forestry component of the IDA project would focus on the training of
professionals in forestry management.
36.      The agreed training program was satisfactorily carried out.
Details are given in the general training chapter in paragraph 52 below.
H. Civil Works
37.      The objectives of the Project included procurement by the
Geological Unit of vehicles and storage and office equipment, and a limited
expansion of office space for such equipment. Old offices were
rehabilitated to house the Geological Unit. The cost of this renovation
was initially financed under a UNDP technical assistance credit, and
refinanced by IDA. The total amount was SDR 15,316.93.
I. Geological Unit Equipment
38.      The equipment provided under the project included, beside a field
vehicle (Toyota Hilux), purchased from a local supplier, a list of office
equipment set up by ARL. The equipment was bought in 1987, upon the
renovation of the offices, from Portuguese, Swiss and British suppliers in
accordance with applicable Bank guidelines. The amount disbursed for the
purchase of the equipment was SDR 30,579 (vehicle: SDR 6,222k office
equipments SDR 24,357).
J. Procurement
39. a) Master Plan. IDA, acting as Executive Agency to supervise the
preparation of an Energy Master Plan, awarded the corresponding
contract to the Senegalese company, ORGATEC, upon an international
call for bids, sent to four companies (see para. 22).
b) Power Distribution Component. For the purchase of the first set
of distribution equipment, to rehabilitate the distribution
system, GUC asked that procurement should be through limited
international tendering procedure on grounds of the urgency to
improve service to consumers. Upon IDA's agreement, GUC sent a
call for proposals to eight companies, out of which three
presented an offer. The lowest bidder, Jaymike, of Great Britain,
was awarded the supply contract. Total cost of this equipment was
SDR 395,040. The procurement of distribution panels, of a smaller
amount, was also through the same tendering procedures. Calls for



- 9 -
proposals were sent to three international companies. The lowest
bidder, Yorkshire Switchgear Group, obtained the contract. Total
cost vas SDR 92,150.
c) Petroleum Exploration Promotion Component. With IDA's agreement,
the exploration consulting company, ARL, was directly contracted
to prepare the geological synthesis study and organize the
Petroleum Exploration Promotion seminars. As ARL was involved in
a similar exercise in Senegal, it was agreed that it would be to
the advantage of The Gambia to retain them. In order to review
the Petroleum Legislation, and prepare an Exploration Model
Contract, the firm Surrey and Morse was initially selected, from
the five consulting companies who had been invited to bid.
However, the drafting of a Model Contract had not been included in
the terms of reference of the tender, and Surrey and Morse asked
for an excessive price to include this new component in the
initial contract. The Borrower thus decided to decline the
proposal of this company. At this point, The Gambia Government
received a proposal from the Commonwealth Government (COMSEC) to
assist them in the renewing of the petroleum legislation, at very
low cost. With IDA's concurrence, the Borrower agreed to COMSEC's
offer. Total cost of the assistance was SDR 14,028.
The vehicle Toyota Hilux was bought from the only concessionary
supplier of this trade mark in The Gambia.
Finally, the office equipment was purchased upon quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers. The contract for the
rehabilitation of the geological Unit office was awarded, upon a
call for bids, to the Chinese Construction Company.
K. Accounting - Audit
39.      The Development Credit Agreement provided that the Power Component
of the Project would be audited by external auditors. It was later on
agreed that the overall Credit accounts would be audited by the Auditor
General's office of The Gambia. In 1986, due to the workload of this
office, no audit of the accounts of the Petroleum Exploration component of
the project had yet been produced. IDA suggested then that the Credit
accounts should be audited by outside auditors. Although the Borrower had
agreed to this suggestion, it was not carried out. Under these conditions,
it can only be stated that IDA never observed irregularities in the Project
accounts, as maintained by the Borrower. The costs of the power
distribution component and their financing from credit proceeds have been
incorporated in the accounts of GUC and satisfactorily audited by the
company's independent auditors.
L. Training
40.      This component of the Project was satisfactorily i.iplemented.  The
training program was set up by MEPID, with the agreement of IDA. NEPID, on



- 10 -
their own, determined the universities where this program would take place,
and contracted the corresponding scholarship. Starting in August 1982, six
staff members of MEPID received extensive training in petroleum geology.
Four persons attended courses in the U.K., one in Kenya, and one in Sierra
Leone.
41.      The Forestry component of the Project was only defined in April
1983. It emphasized training in energy forestry at the professional level.
Starting in 1985, until 1987, two trainees attended courses, one at the
School of Forestry of Minnesota, and the other in the Forestry Research
Study of Nigeria. MEPID's emphasis on training, and the resulting
concentration of the Forestry component on training, led to a 442Z
disbursements excess over the allocated amount.
M. Comments on the Implementation of the Project
(i) Power Component
42.      &'he objectives of this component of the Project included (i)
supply of distribution equipment; and (ii) consulting services to assist
GUE in managerial functions. However, as the German Technical Assistance
Agency (GTZ) had agreed to place five expatriates in managerial positions
inside GUC, the power component of the IDA Project was reduced to equipment
procurement. This component was implemented according to schedule.
(ii) Petroleum Exploration Promotion Component
43.      The preparation of the geological synthesis study was delayed by
late submission of information from neighboring countries, where similar
studies were implemented by the same company, ARL. Furthermore, MEPID was
slow in forwarding their comments on ARL's first draft of the report, and
ARL was slow in incorporating these comments in their final report. The
promotion seminars were held in April 1986, i.e. during the first one year
extension of the Credit. Furthermore, the timetable for the MSGB regional
study was extended after the four countries involved agreed to include a
fifth--Guinea Conakry. The MSGB report was completed in February 1988.
Also, delays occurred in the renovation of the building intended for the
Geological Unit, so that the office and storage equipment could not be
purchased before 1987.
(iii) Forestry Component
44.      This component of the Project was defined in 1983; the training
program was only started in 1985 and extend to 1987. Two one-year
extensions and one six-month extension of the Credit were therefore granted
in order to allow the completion of the petroleum exploration component and
of the forestry training program. Furthermore, a nine-month grace period
following the closing date was granted for accepting disbursement
applications on ongoing contracts.



- 11 -
N. Financial Aspects and Disbursements
45.      Other agencies were involved in the implementation of the work
program of the Project.  UNDP and tha Government of The Gambia financed an
energy study and the preparation of a Master Plan, and the Bank acted as
executing agency for the implementation of this program. No problem was
experienced regarding the availability of funds. On the other hand, as GTZ
financed the consulting part of the power component of the Project, the
corresponding allocation was transferred to the procurement of distribution
equipment. The Project was otherwise financed by IDA only.
46.      After the last disbursement application had been paid on April 8,
1988, the remaining amount of the Credit of SDR 55,990.02 was cancelled.
47.      The following-table indicates the diebursements by category, as
compared with the corresponding amounts allocated in the Credit:
Amount of the Credit           Amount of
Category             Allocated in SDR       Disbursements in SDR
1. Civil Works                   30,000-                15,316.93
2. Plant and Zquipment for
the Power Component        330,000                 487,188.74
3. Vehicles and Equipment        40,000                 30,579.11
4. Consulting Servicest
Exploration                 490,000                493,930.42
Power                        80,000                     0
5. Training                      40,000                216,994.78
Unallocated                 290,000
Cancelled                                           55,990.02
TOTAL                      1,300,000               1,300,000
0. Performance of Consultants
48. (a) Exploration. Atlantic Resources, Ltd. (ARL), implemented their
technical work in a good manner, although their report format had
to be improved with the assistance of Mr. Peter Temple. However,
the consultant's invoicing technique was poor, since IDA had to
step in to prevent an over-invoice amounting to US$100,000.
Furthermore, the consultant has, on numerous occasions, failed to
meet the agreed deadline for submission of a draft report.
(b) Lepal. The Coumonwealth Secretariat (COMSEC) assisted the
Government of The Gambia, at a very low cost (L10,400) in
reviewing the petroleum legislation, in a very pertinent manner.
P. IDA's Performance
49.      IDA participated actively in ensuring that the petroleum
exploration promotion was implemented in an appropriate manner to meet the



- 12 -
requests for information from the oil Industry. Furthermore, IDA's role
was decisive in controlling the exploration consultant invoicing. The Bank
also put a great aeal of effort in ensuring that adequate power
distribution equipment was procured in the most cost efficient manner.
Finally. IDA acted as executive agency in the preparation of an Energy
Study, financed jointly by UNDP and the Government of The Gambia, in a
manner which met the approval of both parties.
Q. Borrower's Performance
50.      Serious interest in the Project wan clearly manifested by the
Borrower, even at the highest level of authority. HEPID implemented its
share of the work program, in providing appropriate support to the
consultants and contractors involved in the implementation of the different
components of the Project. In particular, they organized very efficiently
the training program for geological exploration as well as for Forestry.
51.      However, while the Borrower respected the general spirit of the
Credit Agreement, they did not comply with several of its covenants,
especially as regards reporting requirements. Progress reports were
submitted belatedly and not on a regular basis, and only upon IDA's
insistence; and no audit report of the Petroleum Exploration Component of
the Project account was ever provided. Furthermore, GUC did not implement
the financial recovery plan in a timely manner, in part due to Government
delays. This has now been overcome and GUC's financial performance is
satisfactory.
MII. CONCLUSION
52.      The Project under review met all its objectives during the five-
and-a-half-year project period.
53.      Although the results of The Gambia's geological study and of the
subsequent MSGBC regional study were negative, and the petroleum
exploration promotion disappointing, the hydrocarbon prospects of The
Gambia basins has been properly evaluated. The Government knows that no
more promotional efforts are justified at the present stage of the
geological knowledge and industry interest.
54.      Power distribution in the Banjul area was improved, but the
distribution network remains overloaded. Further needs of GUC in technical
assistance and equipment procurement will be addressed by the new Water and
Electricity Project.
55.      The Forest Training Program implemented under the Credit was very
useful, but not commensurate with the magnitude of the problem.   The
deforestation remains a crucial issue for the country. Although many
donors are active in this sector, further IDA assistance might be
justified.



