3K1-  -zq
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   FlE  C?
Report No. P-2971a-GM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR AN
ENERGY PROJECT
October 15, 1981
Tbis document bas a restricted distribution and may be _ed by recipients dy In the perfommneu of
thir official duties. Its contents may n  otherwise be discsed without Wrl Boak sdh.r*don.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                             Dalasi (D)
US$1.00                                   D1.80
D1. 00                                    US$0.56
D1.00                                     Bututs 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
Metric                                     British/US
l,meter (m)                               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =               0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =                0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                           2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =               2.205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                               0.26 US gallon (gal)
1 kilovolt (kV)                           1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kw)                           1,000 watts (w)
1 kilovolt amperes (kVA) =                1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                           1,000 kilowatts (kw)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA =  Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique de l-Afrique
AfDB  =  African Development Bank
CILSS = Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought
Control in the Sahel
GPMB  =  Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GTZ   =  Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
GUC   =  Gambia Utilities Corporation
VfW   =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ODM   =  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
UNSO  =  United Nations Sahelian Office
FISCAL YEAR
July 1    -    June 30



FOR OffICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
ENERGY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Local Government and Lands; Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources; and, The Gambia
Utilities Corporation (GUC).
Amount:                SDR 1.3 million (US$1.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard; the Government would relend about US$600,000
to GUC at 10.6 percent per annum for 20 years including
five years of grace, with GUC bearing the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:  The project would assist the Government in developing
a strategy for accelerating hydrocarbon exploration in
the country and in strengthening the electric power
sector. It would also support government's efforts to
make better use of its forest resource. The project
would include:
(a) an exploration promotion component comprising:
(i)  the retrieval, re-evaluation and test
reprocessing of seismic data and the
strengthening of the government's geo-
logical unit (20 mani-months);
(ii) a review of the contractual framework for
petroleum exploration and assistance in
negotiations with private oil companies
(6 man-months);
(iii) training of one staff member of the geological
unit, and
(iv) office and field equipment;
(b) a power distribution component that would include
investments to improve GUC's distribution network in
the Banjul/Kombo/St. Mary area;
(c) a forestry component that would help the govern-
ment to strengthen the Forestry Department and to
develop an energy-related program.
This document ha  restricted distnbution and may be med by recpents only in the performance of |
their oficial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be diciomed without World lBnk authorization.



- ii -
To be implemented simultaneously, but not included in
the project, is an Energy Survey and Master Plan being
financed by the United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
(UNSO), and for which IDA is acting as executing agency.
Project Risks:         The principal risk is associated with the exploration
component given that the data presented to companies
may not be attractive enough for them to enter into
exploration contracts. In view of the interest of
companies in the region and the large potential
benefits to the country from an exploitable hydro-
carbon discovery, this risk is considered acceptable.
Estimated Cost:        The cost of the proposed project (net of taxes) is
estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent of which USA1.5
million (about 85 percent) would be foreign exchange.
A summary cost table is shown below:
Foreign   Local  Total
----US$ million-----
Exploration Promotion Component
Consultant Services and Data Process. 0.50         0.02    0.52
Training                                 0.05      0.00    0.05
Office Accommodation and Equipment    0.09         0.01    0.10
Subtotal  0.64      0.03    0.67
Electric Power Component
Equipment and Installation               0.38      0.09    0.47
Consultant Services                      0.08     0.02    0.10
Subtotal  0.46      0.11    0.57
Forestry Component
Consultant Services                      0.08      0.02    0.10
Subtotal  0.08      0.02    0.10
Baseline Cost                            1.18     0.16    1.34
Physical Contingencies                   0.12      0.02    0.14
Price Contingencies                      0.20      0.02    0.22
Total Contingencies  0.32       0.04    0.36
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1.50      0.20    1.70



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                          Foreign   Local  Total
-----US$ million----
IDA                                     1.50       -      1.50
Government                                -      0.20    0.20
TOTAL                                   1.50     0.20    1.70
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           FY82     FY83    FY84
IDA Annual                              0.10     0.70    0.70
Cumulative                          0.10     0.80    1.50
Rate of Return:            N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:   N.A.
Map: IBRD 15416-R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA FOR
AN ENERGY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of The Gambia for SDR 1.3 million (US>1.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Energy Project.
PART I - THfE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on The Gambia dated December 23, 1980 has
been circulated to the Executive Directors. Its conclusions are reflected in
the following assessment of the state of the economy, and its prospects.
Country data appear in Annex I.
The Setting
3.        The Republic of The Gambia is a small country with an area of 10,360
square kilometers surrounded on three sides by the Republic of Senegal. The
country is extremely flat with a maximum elevation above sea-level ot 35
meters.  Geographically, it can be divided into three regions.  The first is
the mangrove belt which borders the river from its mouth to over 240 kilo-
meters inland. Lying behind and slightly higher are the "banto faros", swampy
areas during the rainy season, some of which are used for rice cultivation.
Beyond these swamps stretches the sandstone plateau where most of the crops
are grown, primarily groundnuts and millet.
4.        The population is predominantly rural.  Some 85 percent of the
country's 570,000 inhabitants derive their livelihood from agriculture
and livestock raising. The urban population is still small but is rapiuly
increasing (4.2 percent per year as compared to the national average of 2.8
percent). For a developing country, the population is not particularly
young, with children below the age of 15 accounting for 41 percent of total
population. Overall population pressure is high, with a density of aDout 90
per square km of agricultural land.
5.        The Gambian economy is dominated by groundnut production which
is the country's main source of foreign exchange and is the basis for its
major industrial activity of groundnut crushing. Cotton was introduced a
long time ago but still represents only a small proportion of agricultural
production. The most important food crops are millet, sorghum and rice, the
basic staple of the population.  Millet is grown in rotation witn gruundnuts
on light upland soils, while rice is cultivated mainly in the "banto faros".
Due to the competition with groundnuts, only about 70 percent of the



country's food requirements are met by local food production and about 35,000
tons of cereals (mainly rice) have to be imported every year. Livestock is
an important but relatively unexploited potential. With an off-take rate of
about 6 percent, the subsector contributes less than 3 percent to GDP.
6.        Productivity in the rural sector is low.  The Gambian farmer experi-
ences the same frustrations as his neighbors in the Sahel where rainfall is
irregular and the soils poor. His cultivation methods have remained pre-
dominantly traditional as his ability to adopt modern techniques is hampered
by the absence of formal education and practical training (the literacy rate
in the rural areas is virtually nil). The future for Gambian agricultural
development is poor, because there is little land which has not yet been
cultivated and because agricultural soils are being degraded by high in-
tensity land use, also resulting in severe deforestation.
7.        Despite the predominance of the rural economy (40 percent of GDP
and 80 percent of the working population), The Gambia has a relatively active
modern sector: trade and transport have always been important and reflect to
a large extent the historic role of The Gambia as an entrepot for Senegal
and neighboring countries. Transit trade, linked to the unique geographical
situation of The Gambia and to its low import tariffs, is an important source
of revenue overall and for the budget. Tourism has also emerged as an im-
portant sector during the last 10 years, contributing about 8 percent to GDP
and employing 2,700 persons. Public administration is a major sector of the
economy accounting for 15 percent of GDP. About 25 percent of the salaried
labor force is employed by the Government. Industrial activity is limited to
two groundnut oil mills, a soft drink factory and a shoe factory, all located
in Banjul. Income per capita of the urban population, estimated at US$550, is
about four times higher than that of the rural population and two times the
national average estimated at $225 in 1979.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        In the first decade after Independence (1965), The Gambia under-
took three modest development programs, financed over 80 percent by foreign
aid. This cautious policy reflected the country's limited absorptive
capacity and the need to maintain a careful balance between development
outlays and the maintenance of adequate financial reserves to protect the
economy against sharp variations in groundnut production and prices.
9.        Since the mid-1970s, with the implementation of the First Five-Year
Development Plan, a larger investment effort was made to promote economic
growth. But, while public investments increased from 6 percent of GDP in
1973/74 to 28 percent in 1978/79, GDP growth only averaged 1 percent per year
in constant prices, less than the population growth (2.8 percent per annum),
which lowered the average living standard of the population. The drought
which struck several times and unfavorable price developments were beyond
Government-s control. But, to some extent, the Government was slow in turning
its attention to productive sectors. Between 1974/75 and 1978/79, D 95 million
(52 percent of total development expenditures) were devoted to transport
infrastructure, while the rural sector only received D 36 million. Emphasis



- 3 -
on transport and communications reflected the availability of foreign assist-
ance and the increased absorptive capacity of the sector resulting from the
use of foreign contractors for construction work.
10.       The high level of public investment during that period was made
possible by a substantial increase in foreign assistance. Budgetary savings,
however, did not keep pace with the increase in development expenditures and,
as a result, a large part of the required counterpart funds had to be financed
by the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB), the state agricultural marketing
organization, and by borrowings from the Central Bank. The Central Bank tried
to limit the volume of credit extended by the commercial banks to the private
sector by raising their minimum liquidity requirements from 5 percent to 20
percent of their financial obligations.  This had little effect because of the
excessive liquidity of the commercial banks, and credit to the private sector
continued to increase unabated.
11.       Many public enterprises, set up during the 1970s to promote develop-
ment in important sectors of the economy (livestock, fisheries, public utili-
ties), also had recourse to bank credit to cover operating losses or to
finance investments. GPMB has recently become a borrower, because its
financial situation deteriorated following three bad crops and its obligation
to contribute to the current budget and the Government's investment program
has continued.
12.       As a result of these developments, total domestic credit rose by
59 percent in 1977/78 and by a further 48 percent in 1978/79. The resultant
increase in imports, coupled with a relatively bad export performance more
than offset the improvement in the capital account. The balance of pay-
ments registered an overall deficit of D 27.8 million in 1977/78 and D 28.2
million in 1978/79. For the first time since Independence, net foreign
reserves declined to a negative position of D 22.2 million in October 1979.
13.        Faced with this deterioration in its financial situation, the
Government agreed with the IMF on a financial program in support of a stand-
by arrangement and a Trust Fund loan. Efforts are also being made to mobi-
lize savings by increasing interest rates on demand and time deposits by
1.5 percentage points. In addition, measures are being considered to redress
the situation of certain public enterprises through, where appropriate,
adjustments in prices and tariffs, injections of new equity and improvement
in management and accounting capacity to eliminate the need for budgetary
subsidies.
Basic Development Constraints and Options
14.        The Gambia has often been referred to as the "groundnut country",
and economic activity depends on the size of this crop and'the price it
commands on world markets. The necessity to diversify the economic base
is unquestionable. However, the options open to The Gambia are limited. The
small size of the local market makes it difficult to establish manufacturing
industries for import substitution.  It is doubtful that tourism would become



important enough to help solve some of the development problems confronting
the country. There is presently a growing concern among policy makers in The
Gambia over the real benefits derived so far from tourism development: the
net foreign exchange earnings are low; the rate of Gambianization in hotels
and ancillary facilities has been slow; and Government revenues derived from
the sector barely justify the investments made to promote tourism.
15.        Given the resource endowment and the size of the country, the agri-
cultural sector will remain for years to come the backbone of the Gambian
economy. Agricultural productivity, however, must be increased, through higher
investments, improvements in extension services, and better credit distribu-
tion. New crops and different methods of cultivation such as irrigation are
being introduced, but can be developed only gradually as agricultural institu-
tions are strengthened. Production and export of groundnuts will therefore
continue to be the main determinant of economic growth in the medium term.
Medium-Term Prospects
16.       The present strategy, as outlined in the 1981-86 Plan, gives high
priority to achieving national food self-sufficiency, while ensuring to
farmers an income that is steady and free from the effects of unfavorable
climatic conditions. To this end, Government plans to make increasingly heavy
investments in agriculture, including irrigation developments. However,
Government's attempts to implement the stated strategy will have to overcome
severe financial and institutional obstacles, as it would raise total planned
investment to well over one-third of GDP, and public investment to about 80
percent of this amount. First, the country's absorptive capacity is obviously
limited and, in particular, there is no clear evidence that existing institu-
tional structures in the rural sector are appropriate to the range of agricul-
tural production activities (including input and credit supply, grain storage
and marketing) that will have to be pursued. Second, the required volumes of
concessionary aid may well not be available, and Government has little scope
for borrowing on harder terms, since this would quickly increase debt service
obligations to unsustainable levels.
17.        In light of these arguments, the Bank believes that Government will
be forced to aim at more modest objectives and that total planned investments
should probably not exceed 25 percent of GDP. In such an event, and provided
that Government can plan and implement effective policies in the vital ground-
nut sector, it would still be possible for the country to achieve an economic
growth rate of about 5 percent annually over the next Plan period.
18.        There is an additional concern in that, even if Government can be
persuaded to make significant cuts in the investment program, the domestic
savings performance will remain a problem. In the recent past, Government
contributed on average not more than 15 percent to the financing of public
sector projects. This implied a mediocre savings performance which has been
difficult to strengthen because the tax base was expanding only slightly,
while the needs for recurrent expenditures particularly in agriculture, road
maintenance, health, and education, continued to increase. This unfavorable
public finance situation is likely to persist over the 1981-86 Plan period.



19.       In view of The Gambia's poverty and the development constraints as
outlined above, there will be a continuing need for large inflows of external
aid. Foreign donors would be expected to continue providing financial assist-
ance on the same very favorable terms as in the past, and to meet a high pro-
portion of total project costs, including a substantial share of local cost
financing in appropriate cases.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
20.       To date the Bank Group has financed seven operations in The Gambia
totalling US$27.4 million of which US$17.8 million had been disbursed as of
May 31, 1981. A US$2.1 million credit in FY70 (187-GM) helped rehabili-
tate the port of Banjul, vital for a country so dependent on foreign trade;
due to a sharp increase in construction costs after project approval, a
US$ 2.4 million supplementary credit was added in FY74. The second operation
(FY73) involved a US$1.3 million credit (333-GM) for the irrigation of 3,000
ha of rice and preparation of a follow-up project. A third project for which
a US$4.0 million credit (602-GM) was made in FY76, focuses on the development
of the tourism sector; it also aims at improving public utilities in Banjul
and its suburbs (para. 38 et seq). Also in FY76 IDA approved a credit of
US$4.1 million (644-GM) for a Rural Development Project, co-financed by ODM
and BADEA--aimed at improving agricultural extension services and transport
and marketing infrastructure, and providing training and agricultural credit
for farmers. Two projects were approved in FY78: a US$5.5 million Education
Credit (792-GM) to improve secondary education, strengthen educational planning
and administration, expand the training of skilled workers, and upgrade middle
level managers, and a US$3 million credit (814-GM) for a Rural and Urban Enter-
prise Project to stimulate further development in agriculture, agro-industries,
small-scale enterprises and housing construction. Finally, IDA approved in
1979 a US$5.0 million credit (897-GM) for a Highway Maintenance Project as a
first phase of a longer range maintenance program to improve inland transport
infrastructure. Notes on the execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
21.       Our past operations have focused on four main objectives:  a)
development of agriculture which remains the country s major economic acti-
vity; b) diversification of economic activity and foreign exchange earning
opportunities through development of tourism and small and medium-scale
enterprises; (c) establishment of infrastructure and services essential to
support these activities; and (d) improvement of manpower training to expand
the country's absorptive capacity. Moreover, we have included in each project
an important technical assistance component to assist in strengthening the
government administration and public institutions.  Project implementation has
been generally satisfactory. While weak management has caused delays in some
projects, the Government has been scrupulous in providing project financing
when needed and making efforts to solve implementation problems. The Bank's
strategy, which is in accordance with policies being formulated by the Govern-
ment under its Second Five-Year Plan (1981-1986), will remain essentially the
same. Thus we are preparing follow-up projects in agriculture, infrastructure
(port and highway maintenance), education, and the small and medium enterprise



- 6 -
sector. The proposed Energy Project would expand this strategy by strengthen-
ing the government administration concerned with energy planning and oil
exploration and would also continue our efforts, started under the Infrastruc-
ture and Tourism Project, to improve the power sector.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
22.        The Gambia's energy endowment is modest.  The nation's once abundant
forests are being depleted through over cutting, brush fires, and increased
farming and grazing to accommodate a rapidly growing population. There is no
firm evidence yet of the existence of hydrocarbons but there is some possibility
of economically exploitable oil and gas deposits offshore based on limited
past exploration and geophysical inference. The country is very flat, with a
maximum elevation above sea level of 120 feet which precludes major hydro-
electric potential. No coal, oil shale, or uranium deposits have been dis-
covered. Shells from the groundnut crop are presently being used for fuel at
the groundnut processing plant and it is planned to substitute groundnut shell
briquettes for charcoal. Although the potential for wind power is limited to
the coast, the solar regime appears to be favorable.
23.      The Gambian economy is based on agriculture and service activities
which are not particularly energy intensive, and in this respect Gambia
has suffered less than the other countries from the shock of recent increases
in oil prices. The energy used in agriculture and in activities in the
service sector is almost entirely wood based. Nearly all rural households
and a majority of urban households cook with wood or charcoal. Energy consump-
tion, estimated at 244 kg of oil equivalent per capita, has grown by about
four percent per annum during the 1970s. Locally produced wood and charcoal
are estimated to account for 75 percent of the total energy consumption with
imported petroleum products meeting the balance. The import of petroleum
products, however, has grown by about 15 percent per annum since 1973/74 and
amounted to 50,000 tons in 1977/78, and cost the economy over $11.0 million.
Power facilities consist of seven non-interconnected grids serving Banjul and
six other urban areas, supplied by diesel generators.
Institutions
24.        The Ministry of Local Government and Lands is responsible for mineral
production, including petroleum exploration (para. 29 et seq). The import of
petroleum products is handled by four private oil companies, with the Ministry
of Finance and Trade regulating the price of petroleum products through
negotiation with the companies (para. 27). The Ministry 'was also responsible
for setting a suggested retail price for charcoal prior to its ban (para. 46).
The Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) is a government-owned company respon-
sible for the generation and supply of electricity as well as providing water
and sewerage services (para. 35 et seq). The Department of Forestry within
the newly created Ministry of Water Resources and Environment oversees the use



7-
- 7 -
of forestry resources, including firewood and charcoal. It manages the
nation's forest lands, enforces legislation to prevent the felling of certain
trees, and supervises reforestation. The Gambia is an active member
of the Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel (CILSS) which is
involved in programs to prevent deforestation. Finally, the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Industrial Development is responsible for energy
planning in the country.
The Main Energy Sub-Sectors and Sectoral Issues
25.       The main issues in the energy sector relate to an absence of basic
data, a shortage of qualified personnel, inadequate investment and poor
coordination among relevant government agencies. As a result, the Government
is not in a position to fully evaluate the country's energy resources, analyze
and choose between development options, or prepare and implement plans and
policies in the energy sector.
The Petroleum Sub-Sector
26.       The demand for petroleum products is satisfied entirely through
imports from the Middle East. The import, storage, distribution and sales of
petroleum products in The Gambia is handled by Shell, BP, Mobil and Texaco.
Sales of gasoline and diesel fuel (7.0 million gallons and 6.9 million gallons
respectively in 1977/78) have been increasing by approximately 15 percent per
annum since 1974, while that of kerosene has been declining from a peak of 1.6
million gallons in 1975/76 to 1.3 in 1977/78. The large increases in the sale
of petroleum products, particularly diesel fuel, can be attributed to the sub-
stantial increase in electric power generating capacity in The Gambia outside
the GUC network (para. 39), the rapid growth in the tourist industry, which
places a heavy demand on transportation and the 7 percent per annum increase
in the volume of imports of passenger vehicles. The decline in the sales of
kerosene may partly reflect the substitution of kerosene by use of bottled
gas which has grown from almost zero in 1975 to an estimated 32,000 bottles
(400 tons) in 1980. Excluding bottled gas, gasoline represents 46 percent of
petroleum products consumption, diesel fuel another 46 percent while kerosene
accounts for the remaining 8 percent.
27.       The retail prices of petroleum products, which vary between US$2.40
and US$2.75 a gallon, are negotiated semi-annually between the oil companies
and the Ministry of Finance based on a formula covering various cost elements,
taxes and profit. Although in the past the Government has granted the compa-
nies the requests for price increases, it is planning to study the formula
more closely within the UNSO financed, IDA executed Energy Survey and Master
Plan study (para. 47). The prices charged reflect the current international
cost of importing petroleum products and are in line with those charged in
neighboring countries. Since 1979, the price of gasoline has been increased
by 60 percent and that of kerosene and diesel oil by 80 percent.
28.       Petroleum imports have become a growing burden on The Gambia's
balance of payments. In 1973/74, oil imports represented a little over 3
percent of total exports. In 1977/78, this percentage is estimated to have



increased to over 16 percent of exports. In the years ahead, petroleum
imports are likely to absorb a growing share of the country s export earnings,
even assuming that future growth in petroleum demand would be considerably
lower than it has been in the recent past. This would have a serious effect
on Gambia's capacity to finance its development program, particularly if
groundnut exports do not recover rapidly from their present depressed levels.
Institutional and Legal Frameworks for Petroleum Exploration
29.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and exploitation rests
with the Geological Unit of the Ministry of Local Government and Lands. It
has a total staff of 10 persons and is headed by a senior geologist. While
the head of the unit is an academically qualified professional, neither he
nor the rest of the staff have much experience nor firsthand knowledge of the
industry. The unit's budget covers mostly the salaries of its staff. Due to
these limitations, the unit has not been in a position to acquire geological
information or even to monitor the work of foreign private petroleum explora-
tion companies. Recently the unit acquired the services for one year of a
qualified expatriate geologist through a Canadian bilateral program, and the
situation has improved somewhat.
30.       The relevant legislation governing the petroleum industry is the
Mining (Mineral Oil) Act of 1954 as amended, the Income Tax Act and the
Development Act of 1973 which regulates all foreign investment in The Gambia.
The Mining Act empowers the Minister of Local Government and Lands to issue
licenses, leases and regulations governing licenses and leases and provides
penalties for breach of regulations. There are three types of licenses or
leases granted: (i) oil exploration licenses granted for an initial 2-year
term with a possible one year renewal and covering surface exploration activi-
ties; (ii) oil prospecting licenses granted for an initial 4-year term with
three possible successive one year extensions over 75 percent of the initial
permit area, and (iii) oil mining leases for development/production of hydro-
carbons granted for a 30-year period with a possible renewal of up to 30 years.
Minimum fees are charged for the issue of exploration licenses, and a licensee
is required to make minimum expenditures, either on seismic surveys or drill-
ing. Production royalties are 12.5 percent on oil and condensate from onshore
or from territorial waters. The royalty on all natural gas is 5 percent.
31.       The general terms of the petroleum leases and licenses are contained
in the regulations to the Mining Act and can be modified without amending the
law. Although the basic structure of the regulations is sound, several areas
need revision such as: the financial provisions, minimum work and expenditure
provisions; the extent and scope of ministerial discretion in setting license
terms and conditions; and, the provisions for ensuring stability of license
terms. The Government has requested that the proposed project include
assistance for a review and redraft of the regulations to the Mining Act.
Exploration History
32.       Gambia's sedimentary area covers about 18,000 km2 (10,000 km2 on-
shore, and 8,000 km2 offshore) and is totally enclaved in Senegal. Oil
companies have been engaged in exploration in The Gambia since 1956. Five



- 9 -
companies have held permits (see Annex IV and Chart). As a result of their
exploration efforts, about 5,000 km of seismic lines have been shot and three
wells drilled; two onshore in 1960 by British Petroleum (BP) and one offshore
in early 1979 by Chevron, all of them dry. The onshore wells were drilled on
structures that were not sufficiently well defined and did not benefit from
the seismic techniques available today. The offshore well was drilled on a
large structure in 700 m of water. Although it encountered potential source
rocks and reservoirs, the organic matter in the source rock was immature.
At present only Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine (SNEA) is active under an
oil exploration license, which expires in 1982, covering the onshore and
continental shelf areas. SNEA is planning to conduct a seismic reflection
survey of the shallow offshore and rivers and some onshore geophysical work,
but is not committed to drilling a well.
33.       Information gathered during past exploratory work together with that
available in Senegal and Guinea-Bissau, suggests that the geology of the basin
is quite complex and that, while the negative results of the recently completed
well downgrade the petroleum prospects of The Gambia's continental slope, the
potential of the continental shelf and coastal margin area merits further work.
Government Approach to Hydrocarbon Exploration
34.       The Government attaches high priority to the development of its do-
mestic energy resources, and in particular to increasing petroleum exploration.
Several companies have made inquiries about concessions in The Gambia to follow
SNEA-s relinquishments in 1982. The Government has decided upon a systematic
approach to attracting companies to undertake further exploration. Under the
proposed project it would employ consultants: (i) to collect, compile and re-
interpret existing geological and geophysical data in order to assess the
country's petroleum potential; and, (ii) to bring the legal and contractual
framework in line with industry practice and the country's potential.
The Electric Power Sub-Sector
35.       The generation and distribution of electricity in The Gambia is
the responsibility of the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC), a Government-
owned company that took over the management and operation of the water and
power utilities from the Ministry of Works and Communications in 1972. In
recent years GUC has taken on more responsibilities such as the sale of
bottled gas and the eventual operation of sewerage and sewage treatment
facilities presently under construction in the Kotu resort area and in the
capital city of Banjul.
36.       GUC is governed by a Board of Directors of eight members represent-
ing Government, parastatal and private interests. Its organization consists
of a head office, a Power Division and a Water Division. Its staff of about
600 includes only a few members with the experience and training required
for the operation of an efficient utility.
37.       The power facilities of GUC consist of seven non-interconnected
space grids; the major system supplies the Banjul-Kombo-St Mary area; the
others supply six small towns in the provinces. The Banjul area is fed



- 10 -
from the Half Die power station, whose original base load capacity consisted
of three 2.2 MW diesel units before the severe breakdown of November 1977
(para. 39). Distribution is mainly by overhead lines including 25 miles of
11 kV primary lines and some 30 miles of 400/230 V secondary lines.
The Tourism and Infrastructure Credit (602-GM)
38.       In 1975, GUC was the major beneficiary of the Tourism and Infra-
structure Project, financed jointly by IDA, KfW and AfDB. The project in-
cluded inter alia an expansion of the water supply and electric power systems
serving the Banjul-Kombo-St. Mary area to meet new demand resulting from
tourism development and urban growth. The water component (financed by KfW)
included development of a new water field. The power component (financed by
AfDB) included a 3 MW diesel generator originally intended to be located at
Half Die (but eventually installed at Kotu), equipping of three substations
and construction of 33 and 11 kV transmission lines. The sewerage component
together with funds for the Assistant Managing Director of GUC and fitter
mechanics for the power station were financed by IDA. The project also
provided for the recruitment of an Accounting Advisor (on the job since 1976),
as well as key personnel for the commissioning and operation of the enlarged
water system.
39.       The extended water-supply system was commissioned in September 1980.
The power component ran into delays and difficulties after an explosion at
Half Die in November 1977 destroyed one existing 2.2 MW generating set and
badly damaged another. Although the Government attempted to remedy the damage
caused by the explosion by obtaining financing for additional small generating
sets, the lack of spare parts and qualified technical staff caused a series of
further breakdowns and power supply has remained unreliable. The available
Half Die generating capacity now consists of five 0.8 MW sets, 60% of that in
1977. It is only this year that adequate generating capacity will be restored
through commissioning of the new Kotu power station (para. 41). In the mean-
time, unfortunately, electricity sales have steadily declined because large
commercial and industrial users have been forced to install their own generat-
ing systems to maintain supply during the prolonged periods of load shedding
or outages of GUC equipment.
GUGCs Financial Situation
40.       This crisis had a serious financial impact on GUC, which has been
unable to meet the rate of return and debt limitation covenants under the
Tourism and Infrastructure Project. Despite three increases which doubled
tariffs between September 1976 and August 1979, GUC had negative rates of
return in 1978 and 1979, mainly attributable to losses of revenue through
generator breakdowns, inefficient power generation and distribution, and
fuel oil price increases which brought fuel costs from 40 percent of GUC's
operating expenses in 1975 to a forecast 60 percent in 1980. Neither was GUC
able to meet its debt service covenant because the Government obliged it to
take on additional debt for the construction of the new Kotu Power Station
(1979-1981) and to buy four diesel generators (1980). Meanwhile, the finan-
cial relations between GUC and the Government have become entangled; on the
one hand, the Government paid for large generator repairs and fuel bills; on



- ii -
the other, it has not paid for GUC's 1976 losses (Dalasis 1.9 million or
US$1 million), a requirement under the Tourism ana Infrastructure Credit,
and has also not paid amounts due by various Government bodies for water and
electricity services.
GUC's Prospects
41.       A long-term solution to the generation problem will De achieved
shortly with the commissioning in April-May 1981 of a new Kotu power station.
Construction of this plant was committed after the 1977 explosion at Half-Die
power station before any of the equipment financed by AfDb as part of the
Tourism and Infrastructure Project had been installed. The 3 H4W set to be
financed by AfDB was then still being manufactured. Followinb the advice ot
its consultants, GUC decided to install this set plus an additional one of
the same capacity, also AfDB-financed, in a new power station at Kotu connectea
by a 33 kV line to Half Die station. The installed capacity of this system
will be 10 MW of which 7.0 MW can be considered firm which will be adequate to
meet the 1981 peak demand estimated at 5.5 MW. Expansion of its generating
capacity, together with a third set scheduled to be in operation in 1982, will
meet GUC's generating needs, but difficulties remain relating to distribution
facilities, personnel and financial management. The proposed project would
address these problems.
42.       The above crisis diverted the attention of GUC's scarce management
personnel away from the problems affecting the distribution system, which have
reached serious proportions.  The two 11 kV overhead feeder lines supplying
Banjul with power from the Half Die station are loaded to their thermal limit.
The existing substation switchgears were installed in the early 1950s and are
obsolete--the equipment in at least one substation is overloaded during peak
load periods. Voltage levels in many areas are unacceptably low due to many
new consumers having been connected over several years without any system
reinforcement. Many of the existing low voltage lines are not designed to
carry the increasing loads, resulting in high system losses. System break-
downs are frequent and the faults cannot be speedily located because or a
lack of switching pQints. Large numbers of consumers are also affected by
scheduled interruptions during maintenance work or while new consumers are
being connected. These problems are such that, unless remedied urgently, they
would reduce GUC's ability to provide adequate service to its customers and
would endanger its financial recovery. The Government has therefore requested
inclusion of a distribution component in the proposed project to rehabilitate
the present inadequate system (para. 50(b)).
43.       The effectiveness of the technical assistance program for GUC has
been hampered by financial problems and a shortage of counterpart staff for
training, although the situation has recently improved. The German Agency for
Technical Cooperation (GTZ) has been requested to provide'technical assist-
ance for the operations of the Kotu power station.  In order to design better
its assistance, GTZ is financing a review of GUC's management and organization
in order to identify in detail its technical assistance and training needs.
The Government will consult with the Association on the GTZ study's findings
prior to finalizing a program for its implementation.



- 12 -
44.       The financial situation of GUC is expected to improve significant-
ly as soon as a reliable power supply ensures recovery of revenues. To
reinforce this recovery, Government and GUC have approved a Financial Recovery
Plan, acceptable to the Association (Annex V), which includes: a settlement
of accounts between GUC and the Government (para. 40); further contribution to
GUC's equity by the Government; compensation by the Government of GUC's losses
on the provincial systems; and, the setting of appropriate power tariff
levels. Implementation of the Financial Recovery Plan would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). Because
of its recent problems GUC will be unable to achieve the 8 percent rate of
return targets for power as set in Credit 602-GM for F'Ys 81 and 82. It is
proposed, however, to maintain the covenant from FY83. Because of delays in
implementation of the Tourism and Infrastructure Project, the sewerage rate
of return covenant in Credit 602-GM, now set for FY81, would be maintained
from FY83 to allow for completion of works. No change is proposed in thie
financial targets for GUC's water service included in Credit 602-GM. Other
covenants are also maintained. Assurances have been obtained that: (i) GUC
would set tariffs for its power and sewerage services at a level adequate to
achieve an 8 percent rate of return on currently valued net fixed assets in
operation by 1983 (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement); (ii) GUC would not
incur any long term debt unless its current adjusted revenues are equal to at
least 1.6 times its future maximum debt service (Section 4.04 of the Project
Agreement); (iii) Government would fully compensate GUC for the losses from
operation of the provincial power and water supply systems (Section 4.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement); and (iv) the appointment of the Managing
Director of GUC would be subject to prior consultation with IDA (Section 4.03
of the Development Credit Agreement).
The Forestry Sub-Sector
45.       At the beginning of this century, most of The Gambia was covered
with heavy forests and woodland. Clearing was limited to agriculture and
fallow land necessary to support the small rural population. Since 1900,
however, a six-fold increase in population together with growth in farm lands
and associated cattle production has seriously depleted forest resources. The
Gambia, now the fifth most densely populated country in Africa, is threatened
with severe deforestation, drastic shortages in wood supplies, soil erosion,
impoverishment of pasture land (especially around watering points) and increas-
ing vulnerability to drought. The wooded area remaining now covers about
350,000 ha. While present wood consumption is estimated at 900,000 m3 per
annum, and is expected to rise to 1,500,000 m3 by the year 2000, the mean
annual increment of wood available is estimated to average 350,000 m3. If
present trends continue, The Gambia's forestry resources will be exhausted by
the end of the century.
46.       The Government's forestry policy reflects its awareness of the
problem and seeks the following:



- 13 -
(a) Strengthening forestry institutions and improving forestry planning.
Due to the lack of staff, means and supporting materials, the
forestry institutions are weak. Assistance is needed to improve
the capability of the Forestry Department to, inter alia, develop
energy-related programs.
(b) Reduction in wood consumption. Wood burning is a more efficient way
of using wood energy than charcoal provided that transport of the
wood, heavier than charcoal, does not require long distances. In
The Gambia, where such distances are short, the Government has
already banned the production and sale of charcoal, which should
reduce wood consumption by about 30 percent. The Government would
like to further reduce wood consumption through the use of improved,
more efficient wood stoves and the use of wood substitutes.
(c) Improving management of forest cover and creation of fast-growing,
state-managed and rural tree plantations. Modest scale pilot
reforestation programs are being implemented. Further assistance is
needed, however, to formulate a full-scale program of reforestation
based on data available from these pilot schemes.
Two projects financed respectively by USAID (US$1.6 million) and GTZ (US$2.5
million) are underway to support the above Government policy on a pilot basis.
Given the magnitude of the problem faced by the Forestry Department, additional
assistance is needed which the proposed project would begin to provide.
Overall Sector Strategy
47.       Faced with increasing problems in the energy field because of a
narrow resource base, a lack of plans, policies and personnel, the Govern-
ment wishes to minimize the cost of energy inputs to the economy, both in
terms of investment and import requirement. As a first step, it is there-
fore carrying out, with the assistance of consultants, a comprehensive Energy
Survey and Master Plan. Initially, this was to have been included in the
proposed project but, for reasons principally of timing, it is being imple-
mented separately by the UNSO with the Bank acting as executing agency. The
study is expected to be completed in the autumn of 1981 and its results
included in the second national economic five year plan (1981-85). The Govern-
ment also recognizes the urgent need for: (a) developing a strategy to accel-
erate petroleum exploration in the country; (b) strengthening the power
sector; and, (c) developing and expanding programs in the forestry sector.
In view of The Gambia's limited energy resources, any commercial discovery of
hydrocarbons, however small, would have an important impact on the country's
economy. In the power sector, the public sector's large investments would be
wasted unless solutions are found to GUC's management and financial problems
and unless minor, though urgent, improvements are made in the distribution
network. Progressive desertification warrants an increase in activities in
the forestry sector. IDA's role would be to support: (i) the Government's
rational approach to energy planning; (ii) the promotion of The Gambia's
hydrocarbon potential; (iii) the long-term strengthening of GUC; and (iv) the
Government's efforts to make better use of renewable energy resources.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
48.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA
mission to The Gambia in April 1980 and appraised in September 1980. Credit
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on June 1 and 2, 1981. The
Gambian delegation was headed by Dr. Ayo Langley, Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development. A credit and
project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supplementary
project data sheet is given in Annex III. There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Project Objectives
49.       Consistent with the objectives defined above (para. 47), the project
would:
(a) strengthen the Geological Unit-s capacity to evaluate
and interpret available geological and geophysical data;
(b) assist the Government in promoting the country's hydro-
carbon potential and in negotiating exploration contracts
with oil companies;
(c)  improve the electric power distribution network, and
(d) assist the forestry sector in strengthening its institutions and
developing an energy-related program.
Project Description
50.       The project would include the following components:
(a) Exploration Promotion
(i) exploration component
About sixteen man-months of services of exploration consultants
(including an explorationist, a geophysicist and other experts on
short-term assignments) to assist in:
a. retrieving, compiling and integrating existing geological
and geophysical data;
b.  test reprocessing of seismic data;
c.  providing the petroleum potential information to oil companies;
d.  negotiating exploration contracts; and
e.  monitoring the activities of operating companies.



- 15 -
(ii) legal consultants
About six man-months of advice by a legal firm to review the
legal and contractual framework for petroleum exploration and to
assist in negotiations with companies;
(iii) training
Each consultant would be responsible for on-the-job training of
designated staff of the Geological Unit. One Gambian already
identified would be provided specialized geological training abroad;
(iv) office and field equipment
The Geological Unit would be provided with the equipment necessary
to support the work of the consultants, including storage and repro-
duction equipment, vehicles and a modest expansion of office space.
(v) Basin study (4 man-months)
The Gambia shares a single basin with Senegal and Guinea-Bissau.
To fully understand the geology of the basin, the relevant geo-
logical and geophysical data from the three countries needs to be
integrated in a basin wide study. The proposed credit would
finance The Gambia-s share in such a study. Guinea-Bissau's
share is being financed under Credit 1095 GUB. Senegal has
requested World Bank assistance for the compilation, review and
interpretation of its geological and geophysical data. The
basin study would take place in 1983 by which time the basic work
is expected to have been completed in the three countries. The
consultants for the basin study would be acceptable to the three
Governments (para. 55). Each Government would enter into a
contract with the consultants and supply them with the available
data. After the study each Government would receive a basin
report and a separate country report.
(b) Power Distribution Component
The power distribution component would optimize distribution from
the two power stations serving the Banjul area, enhance transformer capacity,
reduce the risks in overloaded circuits, improve substation safety and limit
voltage fluctuations. It would enable GUC to make better use of investments
already made in the sector. Specific improvements in the Banjul-Kombo-Saint
Mary area would include:
(i) reinforcement of the llkV network in Banjul by a new llkV overhead
feeder from Half Die to Southwest Banjul;
(ii) installation of one pole mounted 100 kVA and one ground mounted
300 kVA substation in Banjul; installation of a 200 kVA transformer
and a 100 kVA transformer in the Kombos;



- 16 -
(iii) minor improvements to seven substations in the Banjul-Kombo-St. iHary
area;
(iv) reinforcement and replacement of low voltage circuits and extension
of the power supply to the water boreholes; and,
(v) installation of 11 kV air break isolating switches.
(c) Assistance to Forestry
This component would include consultancy services and equipment
needed to prepare a program for efficient management of forestry resources.
The details of the program to be financed will be finalized with the assistance
of the Association during project implementation.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
51.       The total cost of the proposed project, net of duties and taxes, is
estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent, of which US$1.5 million, or 88 per-
cent, is foreign exchange. The cost estimates include physical contingencies
of 10 percent. Price contingencies have been included based on an increase of
9 percent for 1981 and 8 percent per annum for 1982, 1983 and 1984. Total
contingencies amount to about US$0.4 million, or 27 percent of baseline
cost estimates. Estimated costs by project component are given in the Credit
and Project summary. The cost per man month of consulting services is esti-
mated at US$15,000 for short-term petroleum consultants, US$5,000 for long-
term power-engineering assistance to GUC, and US$7,000 for short-term forestry
consultants, including travel, subsistence and overhead. This is acceptable,
taking into account the high level of specialized expertise involved and costs
prevailing in the petroleum, forestry and power sectors. The proposed IDA
credit of US$1.5 million equivalent would finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent. Local costs estimated at US$200,000 would be financed by the Govern-
ment. About US$600,000 of the credit would be on-lent to GUC at 10.6 percent
per annum for 20 years including 5 years of grace with GUC bearing the foreign
exchange risk. The Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
with GUC satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01(c) of the Development
Credit Agreement). The project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
Project Implementation
52.       A project coordinating unit consisting of a Project Coordinator, and
support staff will be established in the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (MEPID) to serve as a counterpart to the consultants
carrying out the Energy Survey and Master Plan. The unit would also coordinate
the implementation of the exploration promotion and forestry components of the
proposed project and employ staff whose qualifications would be acceptable to
the Association (Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). The unit
would work in close collaboration with the Geological Unit of the Ministry of
Local Government and Lands which would implement the exploration promotion
component and with the Forestry Department of the Ministry of Water Resources
and Environment which would implement the forestry component. Exploration,



- 17 -
legal and forestry consultants are expected to be employed by the end of 1981.
The Geological Unit in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands would select
the trainee for overseas training also by the end of 1981.
53.       The power distribution component would be implemented by GUC
(Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.01 of the
Project Agreement). GUC would undertake the installation of equipment as well
as the modifications and reinforcements to its network using its own labor
force and with the assistance of an expatriate consulting engineer to be
employed before December 31, 1981 for a period of 2 years (Section 3.02 of
the Project Agreement). The equipment would be procured within six months of
credit effectiveness and would take two years to install. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Given the urgent nature of the investments and the small amount
involved, contracts for the power distribution equipment (estimated to cost
US$380,000) would be awarded on the basis of limited international tendering.
Contracts for the Geological Unit's equipment and vehicles (estimated at
US$50,000) would be procured through competitive bidding following local
advertising procedures, which are acceptable to the Association. The con-
struction contract for the Geological Unit's facilities (estimated at about
US$50,000) would be awarded following local competitive bidding. The consul-
tants would be acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and would be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03
of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
Disbursements would be fully documented.
55.       The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  civil works--85 percent of expenditures (US40,000);
(b)  the supply of plant and equipments to GUC--100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures
(US$380,000);
(c)  the supply of vehicles and equipment for the exploration and
forestry components-100 percent of foreign expenditures and
50 percent of local expenditures (US$50,000);
(d)  consultant services: (i) for the basin study-100 percent of foreign
expenditures (US$50,000); (ii) for GUC-100 percent of foreign
expenditures (US$90,000); (iii) other than for the basin study or
for GUC-100 percent of foreign expenditures (US$520,000); and
(e)  training--100 percent of foreign expenditures (US$50,000).
About US$320,000 would remain unallocated. A condition of disbursement for
the forestry component would be Government's submission of a program and
equipment list satisfactory to the Association (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the



- 18 -
Development Credit Agreement). A condition of disbursement for the basin
study would be (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement):
(a) the availability of satisfactory geological and geophysical data for
the portion of the basin owned by Senegal and Guinea-Bissau; and
(b) arrangements satisfactory to the Association having been made
between Senegal, The Gambia and Guinea-Bissau for implementing the
basin study including contractual arrangements with consultants.
The proceeds of the credit are expected to be fully disbursed within three
and a half years of effectiveness.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
56.       The Project Unit would keep separate accounts for exploration pro-
motion and forestry components. These accounts would be audited by external
auditors acceptable to the Government and the Association. GUC would keep
separate accounts for each of its power, water and sewerage services (Sections
4.01 and 4.02 of the Project Agreement). These accounts would continue to be
audited by GUC's auditors (Pannell Fitzpatrick and Co.) who are acceptable to
the Bank. Cost control procedures instituted by GUC are working satisfac-
torily. GUC and the Project Unit would submit audit reports to the Associa-
tion no later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. The Project
Unit and GUC would submit quarterly and annual reports on implementation of
the project in a format acceptable to the Association. They would also submit
a project completion report not later than six months after the Closing Date.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The most immediate benefit from the exploration promotion component
is that the retrieval and re-evaluation of the geological and geophysical
data, together with the revision of the legal and contractual framework,
would permit the Government to negotiate exploration contracts containing
work commitments commensurate with the country's potential. Any ensuing
exploitable hydrocarbon discovery would have a significant positive impact on
the country's economy. The short-term risk associated with this component is
that the data presented to companies may not be attractive enough for them to
enter into exploration contracts. In view of the interest of some companies
thus far, this risk is acceptable. The longer term risk is that, even if
exploration were undertaken, no exploitable reserves might be found. This risk
is substantial, but is also acceptable because of the large benefits that
would accrue if an exploitable find were made.
58.       The power distribution component is a least cost solution that
would enable GUC to fully utilize its generating capacity. It would also be
instrumental in solving a number of important problems relating to the
utility's financial health and management that have troubled it since it was
established. Resolution of these problems would also have a significant
beneficial effect on the tourism and other sectors important to the economy.
The forestry component would help the Government to strengthen the Forestry
Department and to develop an energy-related program.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of The
Gambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Republic
of The Gambia and The Gambia Utilities Corporation, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on petroleum exploration promotion projects. Special
features of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreements are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III to this report. A
special condition of effectiveness would be the implementation by GUC and the
Borrower of GUC's Financial Recovery Plan.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 15, 1981



- 20 -
ANiEX I
GAMIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     "age  1  of  5  pages
GAMBIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
TOTAL             11.3
AGRICULTURAL       6.0                                MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0       100.0    250.0                  238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      28.5        52.3     124.5                  70.5                  707.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  327.0        449.0      587.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.4        15.0       18.1                 17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        1.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          3.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       28.9        39.7      51.9                  27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0        75.0      96.0                  73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.8        44.0      44.3                  44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                         54.2        53.1      52.6                  52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.9       3.1                   2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.0         3.2       3.0                   2.6                    2.8
URBAN                              3.6         5.1        5.0                  6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.8         46.7      47.5                  46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.2         23.1       22.4                 19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         3.1        3.1                  3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         1.0        2.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         101.0        98.0      72.o                  89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0        99.0      97.0                  90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        56.0       55.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       10.0        13.0      13.0                  17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURTALITY RATE     40.6        34.7      32.8                  27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
ULPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.5         40.4      41.7                  45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       217.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0        ..                  23.9                   27.4
URBAN                               ..        97.0         .                  55.0                   74.3
kURAL                               ..         3.0        ..                  18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..       ..                  26.2
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  63.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         21800.0    22894.7  13170.7                 31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      4065.0   3941.6                 3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            834.0/d         ..    816.9                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      172.3                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                               ..          ..   3935.5                 1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         8.3/c
URBAN                               ..         6.17 
RURAL                               ..         9 . 07
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 21 -
TABLE 3A    -ANEX  I
GAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2  of  5  pages
GAMBIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 12.0         24.0      37.0                  56.4                     73.7
MALE                  17.0        33.0       50.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                 8.0        14.0       24.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          7.0      12.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   4.0        11.0       17.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 2.0         4.0        7.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.4           3.6        5.3                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0         27.0      26.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                          19.0         20.0      17.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         6.0/d         *-       10.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          6.5        ..                    2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.1        111.3     113.3                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   5.0           ..         ..                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   1 .2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       169.1        218.9     271.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   46.8         46.2      45.5                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              85.0         82.0       79.1                 80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0          8.0       8.9                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.7        48.7       46.2                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 56.2         53.5       51.1                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               47.4         44.2      41.4                   29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        1.0                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      95.0                   84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     185.0                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      90.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 39.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      40.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1973;  /d 1962.
May, 1981



22 -                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINOITIONS OP SOCIAL UINSICATORS
Notes:  Althbough the data are droen from  source.  genraly  odged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also h  noted thot they -y rot he. irrt
ositlh     omaai  heuauet-ol  of the  oo  ofse dmeised Afinoesad ..oe.spt  used hy diffe.tee                    .. oonaies ie otlsu.tieg  the data.  Tho dat  oe  t5
hles,oaful to descibe otd-r  of  8agoitde, inditate creeds, sed  hl-t-reies  _setar sa.lo  differanoem  her.. ser  outr ie..
The,e oou  group..     ar  (11 the aenunr   ru  of..        the aah~jelt.to..erysrd (21 a tonaty grou..p oith memehar high- so-otge inuoreha  the ooao.try group
of  hosubec  oooo   (eet for "aita                J.r.o Oil Jeoca"gopwht            .Mdl    os  Nor~_th  fifetos oed Middle taint" i.bth.h.I         ueof etre
oujori   of1t"he cunria  io a group has data forthtidhoco                  io   bovrgso   orneaogh   odio                       Ie  depeneo  the soilabiliry of data
std is con uriforn,  -auioe oust baaeat-s-d In relating aveage  o  on. tediltatot,n anthsr.  Thes  aorge   orcly usefu  lio ccsaoig ubeoa-uo of
one indi-ucco ac   ole aiaoog the... catryet.d refare.oe groope.
LADiO AOlA )nbooe..rd syba.)                                                                      PoosttprHemilhd- tal,bce,,sd,                          ua -I   Populotioo.  (tota,,
Toto1 - To-Isofu  arocoapriiog  land area acd inlandj. n'tos.ure,  .od oucl,  diviedb  thocverotie   se  of hosIta .hds
Agricltural1 - Ertiaste of agricl.tural area sedtaperarly or peosansoly                           anais.bls to pahlit sod privtegnea  sodl:epcie.lted   oPitt1 end or-
for cos  pastures, asket aod kicohen gacdeoe or no lie fal1oro; 198dt.bh,lttoreera.  Ooptala ar                                                   h.atit n   pe tnoly staffed
by at I tea  onephysiur.i.   itarb1iehb.etspniigy iunpallp  osto-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GS  per ospits estimatesutcrt t           aobkt pis,cldaltruent includd.  Natlhoptl,caorinud  health
culated by .-0  ctne_in- method ua World Buob Atlas (1977 -79 haste; 1960,                        ond medical c.tars non prsa..enotly at~ftadiby a phyalcuso  (bat by
1970 , and 1979 dunn.                                                                             msdiol1 aseistert, nurse,ied.ifa, etc.) whihofr in-poti tart  ..
darton ard provide  a iaired. osge of sediusl facli les...F Potmien-
ENERGY CPONSOIPO HPiER CAPITA -Annual ....s.pnion of otarileeg   ca                                  aical parpoers orhan hosPitl  tenlade WHcOa yrioph.goa  hoPitl,
sod lignite,ptoe, P       naura  ga   n   y -,ncerad geo thera  alec-                             ua   colbslaglclo   ua   optals eodseiamos rny
cricicy) In cilugnna of coal eqietpoe ca.pita; 196i, 1970, and 1979                                _etens.  Spacialioed hosyitale at   noadol  under total.
duco.                                                                                           Adintn  rtNsarl e     Ttl  otr of adeiasions t.orc disohaugre
foom haitals divided by th  tuaher of beda.
POFULATIO 0AN0D VITAL STATISTICS
ToTu  Popucatiioo  Phd-tear (thoua..nds) -A. of July 1; 19h0, 1970, and 1979                  NOOSING              ,      IdIlt
daa                                                                                           Average. Nice ofioaod)poc.prhoshl)-tn,ubn,ndoa-
Lohan, Populotion (por..o  of total)o-.Ratioofffurban to tonal population;                         A household coasters of a gtu  of Itdtvldul  who ehare lin ingqa
diff__u  doftoitiona of ocbar urta  na  afec  .oepuosbility of data                             and thei   utoas    boarder or logrny or nay cot he inclu'ded In
unoogo.actrios;i1~9960, 1970, sod 1979 data,                                                    the hoasehold fo   taniticul ya-posos.
,Porohtion polciu                                                                               Avesrrse   fpooo   a   os   oa,urban  androa- Arerag  sum
PPrlaioninyea       I00           I Cort pouato   projtito- ace busd  r1990                     heb   fprsalr  roomieal  arba..           edcoaocuidoeonna
totalyopulcionby ag  and  en ad toOr stlity and fertlitb        ae. -                deltg,rme tvl.Orlineld    o-P.raetsrtoue   n
Projato   paaeer          .o .o...Iity canes comprise of thr.. lav-seu. ......oPidports.
tog lf   topcoc  a itboth tall etgwih co..try 's per capita ieoaeAcs   ooocrtt   oneo   fdeloe)-ttl   ran   o   oa 
inel  adfeal  lf  sopectooty otabili.ing on 77.1 yearn.  The pars-                            Ceenos   wlig    iheetiiyt  iigqatr   cpretg
tyoluyscodo  or- incom  Cn.-l andtpestfuatly pl-ig performance
tsb  ony  srhc  sige   on   f hseao    bei-utiloo  of mortality                   fOATN
sod tactility  trends for projootion porpose.                                       EUAdIotdON     rlseRto
itutlonary rorulutiocIr    tationary population there is n  growth ajos                  P_rimr   col-tnl  usadtml      rs   oa,   mae  adfeal
the birth rate is equa  to the death nate, and also the age st n re r-                          earteilmern          l-1 of allfaes at-th   primartleve   se   rsatge   of_rspnav
~tooccnsout.  Ths Ia auiavod oly afntr fartilitYnaces. decin  n                        piar  shol-g   po atohe; nrmally  in- odeeohidoe  ge  hi
th1-p1emo   lee   f unit net osPtoodnti.n rare. when each geainPesneY .ho adjsre   fo-dfern                                      1Yneh  ilof - primry ldaoaiofg
noiae   nthe baste of  %theIrojece.   hroaitoso   hfoaaintt   oeppl    redhle  orshvethe offricial                                                 d .nho. tgi.. 
totepor200   o  oort  o   elieo  frtip  aetorplae                                              auaaysool-  oa,maeedfeae     optehaahn;studr
sloe hoalbeetoreached.                                                                         euyllptof 12 no 17 penc  of        o    h fgefocrspndnt  onohs   ar gernsi
er so  h. agiutrlln      optda   bv   o   giotrlln                                              snip or as.l'   o deparndrfns o              -aodr   Cneninotoos.  - ...dr
only;~t 190P90ad'99dt.Pai-s e  ratI  - piay   a  stnas-Toa   odne  noldi
Porulatlo   de   Protneferec)-  hld-         f-T.y.   h.4yas,  ais-g.(5                          omr tedtsnr_day  leels dvids  by numbers of nPemoheem -,yin ahe"
hh  aar(  and  reniad hOyasndoe)speocgs of sdP Iu   ppa ooe                                                diglees
Pear-i. poplaioston 1950-90,I",iogo-ph:.tandi.g970-79.i
loios   or 195-90,  P991-7i0, andil.. .                                                       -9--9IPsssa  Cae  ea  t.o.n..r t            -d.rY    Tgo  car    opne  snry
lrdrtrt  Rc  (e  oooad)-Anua  in   irhspr  husndo  sdper                                   as  e tang tesshrhat  eight perons;bYaclades            ofhl e  bemshssa
pplat-ion;  1990, 1970, ad 199  dana                               V. silt                               l tarp nebItoilrs
popuatIo; 190,  970  anod         1979 d      -fo daa-bodoaa  ogeealpbhcprdhssn  o .plnin  suadaa-t-
Iroso   srandcilon Rat-veae   uhe   fdagtesa nansl  ha  i                                     tose   esunders i  o ..n.se  ndinya                   bl bm   teiarno  of. rsdt
tllity;rar6e; usuallyd fareyea  err geenigs190  1970.. sa -d  199                                  ac   onotsaolse   itnig
of  irh-onr.,o       ll deus unde Zupis  of  snine  faiypana  peet eea  pbi   e   huae   euai                                                 proldeuitsd prTV reiversm
ruu   lnut-i       n   foco  o    are  wsa     Pretg  o   und                                    scutie   o   n  ec   hs  eitatu    fT  mn  e  i   fer
eae   fcfl-e_t    go(5C    eas   h   s  brhcuro   eie   o                               eaae  foaatn(cotosndrrlte)     hm   hsdrgor
nIl naroted nosen in tame ear gonup.PolAnd s of 'daily genra  isfteets1                                                       dea.It,dfse   saeroi
P000 0091 NITOITOON                                                                       no-dr_0114y"')  -ki&-E  (5-P-ft he 'daly  ifir per  so learnY  food   tie taah
14nden ofP19 routo60nlpno(997110     ldno  perdcp197                           nnual           Ci"e     Y ortna  Atteadatc  rt  iet`    e   erhe                h   ahno
Porusp..  f upol  of ca 7Oriafena   frnieer)-Cmu    from1seine7geroes.an   unempoyedhen soldighosw....ndae    i.
pro day.  Available suplies cospriar dosesti  prsducrion, imports tsa            non toeparahha; iNi,f1970 sad 1979 dana
tun 9clso0di  fod9 roes0 lg  ondlose  Indi7rbuion   Mqurs                              ARdiouRliare  raren  - ao   oc   s  amn,fcsnp    atau
vlod y Dand helth prt  ...d             -- ooddoiieiooctlton Porstac, b.ody   eigdoblae       I dusr ...on    - laborforc              ta "nng  toeranon    osfttf
household level;, 19701-d5  90  an19     9079 data                                             1970i  sd 17  data.-"    'y.itlt-                                      -         .
dr upply of foo  pe -r dy.Co supply of  fondt isfefnedamaboe.Me                            foiiyassr              uodra  teu,sl,sdfmaelbrtrsa
qoinemeoc o Ocr all countries ennablis..d b ihprvdfosisupeeng   of tona bl,  aesdfmaepplno   o   l    s  rsa  iey
pu.e prct.o   hih1:rm    hol   eaia  prPisiu.  These-isand-                                  refteo970   ugese  sto r   .tof the  p        .po .sio-, adfou   time     ttrd.A
ohlf aua14  Oocuit  Rate forn tofmd - - AJ.ldstnprthaadt                                        Pscetaae  f Prvat lo Y_mo (bot   ocahad  idE-Rctndbrih
agegrou P    -l yers  to ohiUdoro (. - In this ag  group; forlmotgdveop_ing 000-                  5peret rCiobrat  2  prcan ppoobt an 20 peroot.- ,   an  pooat 5  prcen
tris dtadoobed romif  toblos;1 1990  1970 and 1979 bi dha.ta.    .i.           t. of hueods.iy - 1 t..                                   pp,     df.d.IP             il
OlAITh                                                                                  Poynniso saaon oNotyn             it     r...
7.f  opcacya1ooh(ers    foduonubrofpssoflf                                                                                                      tgiin  h  floig  eiatsae  eyupiodtemsucso  poeydeea
no birth; 190,170ani97  dt,                                                                      n          sod.b-ite rprte   wt cI odoeYcato.
FOcOaD   toAuNND     e  (pecetoppultinS-7 total. -            an  sod1 oors -" Hum-                 etritien-ldy adeqioato  dm0 plea.di. e       donti    on-on rtoidements -is me
her- ofpopolou,uhuanpua)sb neo-aieuocns  noI sef                                           -      afodad
_l_rc       y-oagsu iof   Chire deiiv   ppuaton.    neo_aarasnbicpesoaliron o.o econty   Iha  lve  i  driedfrm  herua
resatnbld accnaao-    l   imply thatbl  ohe  -outoif  or sebre    ffthehouehod                  sadCorl-PE         ero   ouain(rbnadrcl   h   c   aalt
doco  h dndt ern A  diproccit at p     artd ofithudy in fetching n
Access  o toccaa Dienael (racoon o  population -tonal, urban  and oural 
Numbr  ofit  .peple  ttl of    hn,aunau)  eredh efmCrpoe  dis fnl. as                                  fl
and susie-saner b            soarbone lytenao  thuisaclo  pin privies a- adit -siimib                                          fuonom-g -ic  tnyi..  and Project...Ions . eprreo
P_adn am Alltoa.ilb.upiRay.pi.     -l.                                                                                                                   1901.i--t    ..  l    .pl.l;16,  90-     97    .   t
Poruotio  perPhytotu   - PpulaiondiviedUb comer  o pIoticag pysi
cias qalgie  frm    meiclIshoo  a  anrerto  leel
Poroitionret Srsgn Peron-  oplstnodiidd  y  usho  f9 tatita
mole and fraule grad none nocaus, practical noosas. sod anstenuan nurses.b.. f.r..



- 23 -
ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 5 pages
TIE GAM81A
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTR (H , constant prices)
us$ Min    Z      1974-79         1979
GNP at Markat Pricas                    132.2   100.0        1.4          19.9
Gross Domestic Investment                37.8    28.6       22.0         -23.9
Gross National Savings                    4.8      3.6
Current Account Bali-nce                -38.4   -29.1
Export of Goods, NFS                     86.4    65.3       -2.9          29.7'
Imports of Gvods, NFS                   131.7    99.6       12.5          -5.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/79
Value Added       Labor Force         V. A. Per Worker
US$ Min    %    Thousands    %         US$            %
Agricultu;e                              47.8   45.6       216.0    80.0         221.3      57.0
Industry_'                                 9.3    8.8       13.5     5.          688.9    177.3
Services                                 47.8   45.6        40.5    15.Q       1,180.2    303.8
Total/Average                   104.9  100.0      270.0   100.0          338.5    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Dalasi Mln                   Z of GDP
1977      1978  1979         1977     1978        1979
Current Receipts                         65.5   65.9        79.8    30.9          35.7      33.1
Cuurent Expenditures-                    58.6   66.5        73.3    U.6           36.1      30.4
Current Surplus                           6.9   -0.6         6.5     3.3           0.3       2.7
Capital Expenditures                     32.6   68.8        53.0    15.4          37.3      22.0
External Assistance (net)                 7.7   42.2        36.4     3.6          22.9      15.1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1975  1976       1977      1978        1979      1980
Dalasi Mln
Money and Quasi-Money                    39.2   51.9        63.5     74.5         73.0      77.0
Claims on Government (net)               -4.7   -6.1         9.9     17.9         29.9      31.3
Claims on the Economy                    16.3   33.7        42.0     64.4         95.2    134.1
(Percentages)
Money and Quasi-Money as a . of GDP    26.8   28.8          29.9     40.4         30.3      35.1
General Price Index (1974-100)          111.8  135.1       157.3    173.4        186.1    195.4
Annual Percentages Changes in:
General Price Index                    17.6   20.8       16.4      10.2          7.3       5.0
Claims on Government                  -61.7   29.8        -        80.8         67.0       4.7
Claims on the Economy                  13.2  106.7       24.6      53.3         47.8      40.9
NOTE    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average prevailing during
the period covered.
1/  Including public utilities and construction.
2/  Estimaces based on number of employees in establishments having five or more
workers and furnishing statistical returns.
3/  Excluding transfers to Development Fund.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYHNtES AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  1977      1978       1979                                                        HERCHANDISE EXFORTS (AVERAGE i974/75 - 1978/79)
(Millions o  U34)                                                                                                                         U8o  Mm.
Exports of Goods, NFS                               66.1       54.6       86.o4                                                       Groundnut Products                                          36.8                72.7
Imports of Goods, NS                                78.7    .1048        131.7                                                        Groundnut (shelled)                                        (20.1)              (39.7)
Reaource. Gap (deficit e -)                         -|        _50 2                                                                   Oil (unrefined)                                            (12.5)               (24.7)
Cake                                                       (I4.2)              ( 8.3)
Interest FPyments (net)                              -0.1      -0.i       -0.1                                                        Pals Kernels and Nuts                                        0.4                 0.8
Workers' Remittances                                 -0.3      -0.3       -0.4                                                        Fish and Fish Products                                       1.7                  3.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                           1.7      -O.6       -1.1                                                        Other (includineg border trade)                             11.7
Net Transfer*                                        49         4.1        8.5                                                        Totalk-,
Balance on Current Account                                     ATi. Ji7:I  _8 lj
Direct Foreign Inventment                                                                                                             EXTERRAL DERT - December 31, 1979                           Us$ mm
Net MIT borrowing
Disbursements                                      3.3       13.2       12.7                                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed                           45.7
Amortization                                      -0.2       -0.4       -0.4                                                        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                  --
Subtotal (net)                                               I"T  I      !n7                                                        Total Outstanding and Disbursed                             45.7
Capital Grants                                       __         6.9        3.8                                                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Other Capital (net)                                  -1.3       5.0        3.6
Error and Omissiona                                  5.5        9.2        3.1                                                        Public Debt, Including Guaranteed                                                 0.3
Increase in Reserves (-                        . InIre-as)     i     5                                                                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
gross Reserves (end year)                            31.1      21.2        9.9                                                        Total Outstanding  nd Diard                                                       0 3
Fuel and Related Haterials luports                                                                                                     hHD/ID  EIIDIHNG (ML". US$t)                               IRRD                 IDA    >
of which:  Petroleum                               6.3       10.8       11.1                                                          TLao?iii        31, l9hl)
Exports
of which:  Petroleum                                                                                                              Outstanding and Disbursed                                   i_ 16.1
Undlebureed                                                 --                  11 3
RATE OF EXCIhANE   Through  -  1971  1972          19714  1     1976  A2M  1978  12                                                   Outstanding, including undisbursed                          --                   27.4
Dalasi/US$                    2.i   2.0   1.7   1.7   1.8   2.2   2.3   2.1   1.8
MMTE:    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average prevailing
during the period covered.
End of fiscal year (June).
|   Ratio of Debt Servieo to Exports of Goods end Non-Factor Services.



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE GAMBIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1981)
Amount,
less cancellations
Credit                                                        (US$ million) 1/
Number     Year       Borrower             Purpose         IDA     Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed.                               5.78
602-GM     1976       Republic of        Infrastructure
The Gambia        and Tourism
Development       4.00       0.46
644-GM     1976       Republic of        Rural Development
The Gambia        Project            4.10       0.48
792-GM     1978       Republic of        Education         5.50       2.56
The Gambia        Project
814-GM     1978       Republic of        Rural and Urban
The Gambia        Enterprise
Project           3.00       1.40
897-GM     1979       Republic of        Highway
The Gambia        Maintenance
Project           5.00       3.75
Total            27.38       8.65
-of which has
been repaid    0.07
Total now held
by IDA        27.31
Total
Undisbursed                8.65
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
B.   Projects in Execution*
Cr. No. 602    Infrastructure and Tourism Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1976; Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project provides basic infrastructure for tourism development,
expansion of public utilities, and technical assistance to The Gambia
Utilities Corporation (GUC). The physical components of the project are on
the whole being implemented satisfactorily, the only exception being delays
in implementing the electricity component. The management and worsening
financial performance of the GUC continue to give cause for concern. A
project completion mission is likely to be scheduled in early 1982.
Cr. No. 644   Rural Development Project: US$4.1 Million Credit of July 19, 1976;
Effective Date: November 16, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project, now almost completed, has been hampered by managerial
problems, resulting in objectives only being partly met. The project has also
been affected by sectorial problems, particularly the breakdown of the agricultural
credit system. To take the experience of the project into account and to analyze
the implications of the sectorial developments, appraisal of a follow-up project
has been delayed until late 1981 or early 1982.
Cr. No. 792-GM  Gambia Education Project:  US$5.5 Million Credit of May 26,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Because of problems in the recruitment of technical assistance for
the Project Unit, there was an initial delay of about one year in project
implementation. Since overcoming these problems, implementation has progressed
satisfactorily. The first phase of school construction, about 60% of all
civil works, is in line with the revised implementation schedule. Contracts
for the second phase of construction have been awarded, and procurement of
furniture and equipment is underway. Disbursements are still lagging behind
appraisal estimates but are expected to accelerate with the advancement of
civil works. All technical assistance personnel, except the health planning
specialist, have been recruited. The upgrading programs for secondary school
teachers and for instructors at the Technical Institute are being finalized.
Curriculum development for secondary science and practical subjects and for
the nurses training program is underway.
*    These notes are designed to inform the Executive Direc'tors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Cr. No. 814-GM Rural And Urban Enterprises Project: US>3 Million Credit of
May 26, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 29, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The line of credit to Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB)
is almost fully committed with 53 subprojects approved since credit effective-
ness. Institution building remains difficult and US$180,000 have recently
been reallocated for additional technical assistance. GCDB still has to com-
plete the financing plan for its new office building.
Cr. No. 897-GM  Highway Maintenance Project:  US$5 million Credit of
May 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 20, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of a four-year maintenance program including
routine and periodic maintenance of selected roads; installation of a weighing
bridge and procurement of equipment; technical assistance to the Public Works
Department; and a mechanical engineering fellowship. The major component,
periodic maintenance, started according to the appraisal schedule in October
1980. The EEC Special Action Credit (6-GM, US$1.7 million) supplementing the
IDA credit was amended to include additional equipment and its closing date
was extended to end-1981. Field implementation of the routine and periodic
maintenance programs is good. Spare parts procurement for equipment should be
improved to assure smooth operations; the Government is studying alternative
procedures and will be proposing a solution to the problem to the Association.



- 28 -                     ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  Government/Association
(c) Identification Mission: May, 1980
(d) Appraisal Mission: September, 1980
(e) Negotiations: June 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: January 31, 1981
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action:  None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Implementation of GUC's Financial Recovery Plan by the Borrower
and GUC would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 44).
(b) During negotiations assurances were obtained that (para. 44):
(i) with respect to GUC's power and sewerage services, GUC would
set tariffs at a level sufficient to provide an 8 percent rate
of return on currently valued net fixed assets in operation
from 1983 onwards;
(ii) GUC would not incur any long-term debt unless its current
adjusted revenues are not less than 1.6 times its future
maximum debt service;
(iii) Government would fully compensate GUC for the losses from
operation of the provincial power and water supply systems;
and
(iv) the appointment of the Managing Director of GUC would
be subject to prior consultation with the Association.
(c)  GUC would employ an engineer to assist in equipment installation
by December 31, 1981 (para. 53); and
(d)  A condition of disbursement for the basin study would be the
availability of satisfactory data, and satisfactory arrangements
having been made between Senegal, Gambia and Guinea-Bissau to
implement the joint basin study, including contractual arrangements
with consultants. A condition of disbursement of the forestry
component would be Government's submission of a program and
list of equipment satisfactory to the Association (para. 55).



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
THE GAMBIA
Hydrocarbon Geology and Status of Exploration
Hydrocarbon Geology
1.        The onshore and offshore areas of The Gambia lie within the Senegal
Basin, one of a series of Mesozoic basins situated along the West African
coast. Formation of the basin initiated with basement subsidence during the
Jurassic, probably in association with continental rifting. The sedimentary
wedge thickens westward from zero in the eastern Senegal interior to approxi-
mately 7,000 m in its thickest part. In the present onshore area, Mesozoic
sediments onlap eastward onto an extensive westward dipping surface and
unconformably overlie folded and faulted Paleozoic formations.
2.        The structural framework for part of the basin is conditioned by
the Triassic/Jurassic salt tectonics which are well known in Senegal although
not as clear in The Gambia with the existing seismic. Tensional faulting is
also usual in this type of continental margin. Chances remain that structures
can be delineated, especially in the shelf or coastal areas, with improved
geophysical technology that would overcome more effectively the data quality
problems of earlier surveys. Data quality is crucial as the anomalies, if
they exist, are likely to be small and subtle.
3.        Possibilities exist for stratigraphic traps, for example, limestones
and sandstones encased in shales at numerous stratigraphic levels or where the
predominantly carbonate and sandstone section of Cenomanian and Upper Albian
age shales out updip (eastward) in the area of the present coastal margin.
Also deltaic or sand bar following directional trends can be divergent to the
general westward basinal deepening. The recently discovered oil field in the
Ivory Coast is linked to such stratigraphic occurrence.
Exploration History
4.        The Gambia sedimentary basin covers an area of 7,600 km2 onshore,
5,000 km2 on the continental shelf and about 4,000 km2 on the continental
slope. This area has been explored for hydrocarbons since 1956, generally by
companies which were also holding exploration permits on the adjacent areas in
Senegal.
5.        Five companies have held permits:  British Petroleum, Shell Inter-
national, Aracca Petroleum, Chevron and Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine
(SNEA). Since Chevron relinquished its rights on the continental slope in
early 1980, only SNEA is holding an exploration license covering the con-
tinental shelf and the onshore. SNEA is planning seismic surveys onshore and
offshore.



- 30 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
Results of Past Exploration
6.        As a result of past exploration, a significant amount of information
has been collected. About 5,000 km of seismic were shot (mostly offshore) and
three wells were drilled. BP drilled two wells onshore in 1960-61 (SK-1 and
BK-1) and Chevron a well (Jammah-1) in the deep offshore in early 1979. 1/
The three wells were dry. The onshore wells were drilled on poorly-defined
structures while Chevron drilled a large, north-south trending structure.
Reservoir and Source Rocks
7.        These wells have proven the existence of reservoir and source rocks
in the Cretaceous (Albian to Maestrichtian). In the Jammah well, reservoir
and potential source rocks were encountered. The source rocks, however, were
thermally immature due to insufficient burial. Better maturation and oil
generation conditions could be encountered under the thicker cover of the
continental shelf.
8.        Reservoir and source rocks have generally been identified in the
wells drilled both in Senegal and The Gambia in Cretaceous section (Albian to
Maestrichtian). The carbonates and sands of Cenomanian age, the Albian sands
and the sands which occur in places in Lower Maestrichtian have generally been
the objectives. Regional variations of those formations apparently have not
been well studied.
9.        The presence of light oil in Uppermost Cretaceous/Lower Tertiary
sands and heavy oil in the Lower Tertiary in southern Casamana (Dome Flore
area) proves that oil generation and migration have in effect occurred in the
area. The trapping and migration problems in this area are unsolved and a
solution to this problem would greatly contribute to leads for successful
exploration.
Conclusion
10.       The recent dry well, Jammah-l, has undoubtedly downgraded the
continental slope areas. The shelf and coastal margin area were not drilled
enough to allow a thorough evaluation of the potential. Two major problems
remain to be solved:
(a) oil generation and migration--to find areas where the existing
source rocks have been buried deep enough for maturation of
organic matter and where migration and trapping possibilities
exist; and
(b) deeper formations (Jurassic or Paleozoic)--to solve these
problems, modern seismic techniques, more wells and sound
geological understanding of stratigraphy and sedimentation
will be necessary.
1/   Sk-l bottomed at 3,710 m in Upper Aptian; BK-1 at 2,104 m in Lower
Cenomanian and Jammah-l at 3,020 m in Albian.



- 31 -                      ANNEX V
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE GAMBIA
Gambia Utilities Corporation
Proposed Financial Recovery Plan
With the installation this year of two 3MW sets at the Half Die
Power Station and the new powerhouse at Kotu, the electric power generation
problems of the Gambia Utilities Corporation (GUC) will be solved for the
time being. The construction and installation of facilities proposed to be
financed under this project should solve the more urgent problems relating to
distribution of electric power. These physical facilities should significantly
improve GUC's financial situation. Rowever, they are not sufficient to
restore GUC's financial health and additional financial actions need to be
taken. The Government has now approved a financial recovery plan for GUC
which is summarized below:
(i) the conversion to Government equity of about Dalasi 4.3 million made
available to GUC by the Government between 1975 and 1980 for the
emergency purchase of generators and other equipment;
(ii) the conversion to Government grant as "Development Funding" of about
Dalasi 3.3 million made available to GUC by the UK Government (ODA)
and the Government for the procurement of materials;
(iii) the settlement of transactions between GUC and Government whereby
the Government owes GUC a net amount of about Dalasi 1.0 million;
(iv) the provision of funds by the Government to GUC as equity to cover
cost overruns amounting to about Dalasi 2.5 million on the new Kotu
Power Station now being constructed and financed with a loan from
the African Development Bank;
(v) an increase of 15 percent in the electricity tariff effective
October 1, 1981, with Government paying the losses of the provincial
electric power systems as provided for under section 15 of the GUC
Act of 1972. 1/
Implementation of the above elements of the Plan would begin to put
GUC on a sound financial basis. Assuming the Plan is implemented in October
1981, as a condition of effectiveness and making further assumptions regarding
revenues and costs, Tables 1 to 4 contain financial forecasts of GUC for the
years 1981-86. As the tables indicate, net operating income before interest
rises from Dalasi 62,000 in 1981 to Dalasi 6.0 million in,1985. The rate of
return increases to close to 8 percent in 1983 and about 9 percent in 1985.
Assurances have been obtained that GUC shall produce revenues sufficient to
yield an annual rate of return of not less than 8% for its power and sewerage
services in 1983 and thereafter. Additional tariff increases of 20 percent
1/   Already approved and in effect.



- 32 -                      ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6 pages
for fiscal year 1982 and 10 percent thereafter have been assumed in the
projections, with the Government continuing to cover provincial losses. In
order to maintain a sound financial structure in the future, assurances have
been obtained from GUC that it will not incur any long term debt unless its
current adjusted revenues are at least equal to 1.6 times its future maximum
debt service.



GAMBIA
GUC - Forecast Consolidated Income Statemeent -
(D'000)
Year Ending June 30                1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
Operating Revenue
Electricity                    8,578      12,398      16,931      20,485      24,822      30,000
Water                          2,271       2,798       3,449       4,209       5,091       6,160
Total                    10,849     15,196      20,380      24,694      29,913      36,160
Operating Expenses
Fuel and lube oil                5,230       6,590       8,010       9,880      12,220      15,070
Labor and other materials
Electricity                    1,307       1,638       1,800       1,928       2,180       2,397
Water                          1,406       1,606       1,833       2,016       2,218       2,440
Head Office                    1,270       1,397       1,537       1,690       1,859       2,045
Depreciation                     1.574       2,798       a,3fL4      4,7?        5.297.      5,_ 7s_
Total                    10,787     14,029      16,544      19,886      23,774      27,827
Net Operating Income
Before interest                     62       1,167       3,836       4,808       6,139       8,333
Interest charged op.               975       1,623       2,095       2,539       2,460       2,338
Net Income                           (913)      (456)      1,741       2,269       3,679       5,995
Memo Items
Provincial Profit (losses)                                                                                             G 
Electricity                     (831)       (712)       (762)       (804)       (854)       (900)
Water                             (20)        -           50          55          60          65                    0o
Total                      (851)       (712)       (712)       (749)       (794)       (835)
1/  Based on Banjul electricity and water supply operations, that is excluding provincial operations,
sQ
sewerage and gas sales. 



GAMBIA
GUC- Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
(D'000)
Year Ending June 30                1981        1982      1983       1984      1985       1986
Sources
Net Income                        (913)       (456)    1,741      2,269     3,679      5,995
Depreciation                     1,574       2,798     3,364      4,372     5,297      5,875
Consumers' contribution            330         220       160        120       160        120
Loans:
AFDB I and II                  9,772
4th generator                                        4,000
Water supply extension                               9,000
IDA                                          260       500        500
Total Loans               9,772         260    13,500       500        -        -
Revaluation Reserve              3,067       4,603     5,151      6,310     7,252      7,527
Capital Grants (including
3rd generator)                 1,000      4,000        -          -         -         -
Increase in retained
earnings                       1,871
Total Sources            16,701     11,425    23,916    13,571    16,388    19,517
Applications
New plant in operation          18,400       2,770     5,220    15,160      1,120      1,160
Work in progrese                (8,090)      2,450     9,940   (14,040)         40       (40)
Revaluation net plant            2,084       3,976     4,370      4,993     6,571      6,810
Revaluation work in progress       983         627       781      1,317       681        717
Amortization                     1,595          35       535      1,185     1,785      1,750
Total Applications      14,972      9,858    20,846      8,615    10,197    10,397
Change in Working Capital        1,729       1,567     3,070      4,956     6,191      9,120
o q



GAMBIA
GUC - Forecast Balance Sheets
(D'000)
Unaudited
Year Ending June 30                1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
Assets
Plant in operation              33,933     55,726      64,069      75,696      9q8426    109,389    121,488
Less: depreciation              13,089      15,972     20,367      25,768      32,717      41,286      51,290
Net plant in operation          20,'844    39,754      43,702      49,928      65,709      68,103      70,198
Work in progress                19,652     12,545      15,622      26,343      13,620      14,341     15,018
Net current assets              3,171       4,900       6,467       9,537      14,493      20,684     29 804
Total Assets              43,667      57,199      65,791     85,808      93,822    103,128    115,020
-       ~~~~~======    ======    t=====    ==re===s   s=z==c=   ====
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Government Equity                5,725       5,725      5,725       5,725       5,725       5,725       5,725
Capital Grants                   4,563       5,563      9,563       9,563       9,563       9,563       9,563
Development Funding (C/A)        3,329       3,329      3,329       3,329       3,329       3,329       3,329         U
Development Funding (Govt)       6,584       6,584      6,584       6,584       6,584       6,584       6,584
Retained Earnings (losses    (14.350)   (13,392)   (13,848)   (12,107)         (9,838)    (6,159)        (164)
Revaluation Reserve             16,814     19,881      24,484      29,635      35,945      43,197     50,724
Total Equity              22,665      27,690      35,837      42,729     51,308      62,239      75,761
Long Term Debt
Existing loans onlent
by Govt                       16,228     26,000      26,000      25,500      25,000      23,900      22,800
New loans onlent by Govt           -           -          260      13,760      13,610      12,960      12,310
GPMB Loan                          235         140        105          70          35         -           -
Central Bank Loan                1,500         -          -           -           -           -           -
State Pension Board Loan           500        500         500         500         500         500         500
Total Long Term Debt      18,463      26,640      26,865      39,830      39,145      37,360         v    C
Miscellaneous
Consumers' Contribution          2,117       2,447      2,667       2,827       2,947       3,107       3,227       >
Provincial Capital Reserve         422         422        422         422         422         422         422       w
Total Equity and
Liabilities               43,667      57,199      65,791      85,808      93,822    103,128    115,020



GAMBIA
GUC - Forecast Financial Ratios1/
(D'000)
Year Ending June 30                    1980       1981        1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
Net Plant in Operation                20,844    39,754       43,702    49,928    65,709    68,103    70,198
Net Operating Income Before
Interest                                           62       1,167      3,836     4,808      6,139      8,333
Return on Average Net Plant 2/
in Operation (before interest)                    0.2         2.8        8.2        8.3       9.2       12.0
Net Income After Interest                          (913)        (456)    1,741      2,269      3,679     5,995
Return on Average Net Plant-/ in
Operation (after interest)                          -           -        3.7        3.9       5.5        8.7
Internal Cash Generation
Net Operating Income                               62       1,167      3,836      4,808     6,139      8,333
Depreciation                                    1,574       2,798      3,364      4,372     5,297      5,875
Total                                       1,636        3,965      7,200     9,180    11,436    14,208
Debt Service
Interest                                          975       1,623      2,095     2,539      2,460      2,338
Amortization                                   1,5953/          35       535      1,185     1,785      1,750
Total                                       2,570        1,658      2,630     3,729      4,245      4,088
Debt Service Coverage                               0.6          2.4       2.7        2.5        2.7       3.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                                 49/51       43/57      48/52      43/57      38/62     32/68
1/  Based on Banjul electricity and water supply operations, that is excluding provincial operations,
sewerage and gas sales.
2/  Net plant calculated by taking average of initial and year end figure.                                         m M
3/  Of which D 1.5 million to be repaid out of the settlement of accounts by GUC with the Government.              o '<
0
7.22.81                                                                                                            c
S



- 37 -
CELRT: Timing of Licenses Held by Oil Companies for the Three Major Concession Areas
I - I    1I    1I        I      TI    T      [IF  IfF IT II1
BP -B.R.P.                                          SHELL                    S.N,E.A.
ONSHORE    O                                                                    CTCN
CONCESSI ON
AREA                    B.P.-B.R.P.
OPL  in II
CONTINENTAL  OEL                              -       B P. - E.R.A.P.              ARACCA                S N.E.A.
SHELF                                                                             (CHEVRONl
CONCESSION
AREA      OPL
SHELL  I     CHEVRON
CONTINENTAL  OEL
SLOPE
CONCESSION
AREA      OPLCHVO
1960             1965              1970              1975               1980
World Bank -22220






IBRD 15416R
818               O                                              17-                                                            1b-                                                            15-                                                            1j4'      MAHCII 1981
Thp  p rev bee prepared by the WVria Avvff e,vsreei,fortherrrrerie                                                                                      THE   GAM BIA
1                6 rvfr te der rf Th rreprvt wih,rt.viiiied Thl drt,viie   s uedeiidithe
N                                       atC    (   bi,adf .ferpprriv,irerri art   ivy, p  Oi YD v ,n t rntoyre air yel rreerior                                              GAMBIAN    CONCESSION   AREAS  AND
s   I  \ r...ACcep.a..eoruibOrree                                                                                                        REGIONAL EXPLORATORY  WELLS
\  I  CvML                               Ds-l                                         oDI-1
oKb-l                                     Ni-Fl                                 rveocerrve
\   X  I     )                                                                                                                                                      X XXd   A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ConS heir la shelf concess on ore0
N,       t                                                                                                           \                                                                                                   Cortinenlol so op concess on area
,-~~~~~~~Be-1                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~-l eg-1r   plorotory-elk
11 t  \                                  - l                                                                                                                                      200  ----       thr--B elry    res, depths in -ereesT
~~~~~ e~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~~~~~*) ~~~~~~~~~~~P-de rood,
/ /                             1                                                                                                                                                                                               B<Earth rooxd, 
/   \\   tj  ::  Bt                                                                                                                                  ----  Pubhc Works Department dlves ons               l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~obroWolreDeernrrtdrrsor
t   |    I                       ) : } 15                                                (a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kolech                                                             @0      D,vrsrironerrdquorrers 
A f/afntfic              I   O,c,,,,,1 n                                                                                                                                                                         -  .-. -   Irtermotronol boorderies
I                                                                                                0       ;-d--
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I                                                                                                                                                                              14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
N                 \                   I      |   .                           \::         - ,,,;E Dr- F I                                                                                                      5\0~     0          20          40          60          80          100
I   RF;3f   fKM-2                               ,                                         E      N        E       G      A       L
j                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14-
/; r ;/ ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0E B, Ix; 0B                                                                           - E    N     E    G      A     L r;(SNGL5g
tI /                                                       1d  1J                                                                                                      D -                KI<  BI /a                          GAMBIAk  r<              \      ML
LI  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~DM-1   K-1                     DB-1b           THS
//                    ~~~~~~cm-I                                                                                                                                                                                        A.I                           MALI
I /        1   GLw-1 ew                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISSAU7_
|   I\    I               CM-4                       C_                                                                                                                                  ...A
I                                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~----.--,-.----- -------  EA~A
1!  S                                                                                                                                                            .a                                                             AHpeoprp .7 Df,- lfS  #+  /     j IVORY
I  \                                                                       (voeroerlipe                                                  -~~~~~ -                                                                                 ?       njDgCOAST
/   k    \\   %  C^M.-3                            ---                                                       . -0  _          G  U  I N  E A       B I S SAU                            OrA  U       - IERIA
7;3-         $ C      CL                           CM-2pQ                                             0 Z gr.rrhor          I^                         ./                                 I
CO~~~~~~~~~~~T 



