Docuennt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 9983
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(CREDIT 1287-BD)
OCTOBER 7, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(MARCH 1991)
Bangladesh Taka 1             US$ 0.028
US$ 1            Tk. 35.74
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)          2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)     =  0.62 miles (mi)
I metric  on (mt)    -  26.8 maund (md)
1 kilogram (kg)          2.2 pounds
1 mound/acre (md/ac)    0.015 ton/ha
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB    Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BADC    Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB      Bangladesh Bank
BRDB    Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BARI    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
DAE     Departnient of Agricultural Extension
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DTW     Deep Tubewell
ERR     Economic rate of return
FAO/CP  Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FRR     Financial rate of return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOB     Government of Bangladesh
HTW     Hand Tubewell
IDA     International Development Association
IMP     Irrigation Management Program
KSS     Krishi Samabaya Samity
LLP     Low Lift Pump
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NPV     Net present value
ODA     Overseas Developmonnt Administration
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PA      Project Agreement
PCR     Project Completion Report
RMB     Resident Mission in Bangladesh
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SB      Sonali Bank
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
STW     Shallow Tubewell
UCCA    Upazilla Central Cooperative Association
GLOSSARY
Boro - Rice planted in January/February and harvested in May/June
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFkCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U'.S.A
Oke ic  Ofect4w^Sa)
October 7, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Deep Tubewells Project (Credit 1287-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Deep Tubewells Project (Credit
1287-BD)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this proJect has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Departm.ent at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rceipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank acuthorimtion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1287-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..                         .. ................ .....  . . . .
EVALUATION SUMNARY         ... i.i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .     1
Project Identity...                                . .        . 1
Background   1.....    1
Project Objectives and Description..           .     ...                2
Project Concept, Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Project Results. . ....                                                 8
Project Sustainability              . . . . .. .     . ...             10
IDA Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Borrower Performance  ........ ....               ....... .    11
Project Relationship  ............ .... .....                          z
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .            .  11
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .  13
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits.      .. .  . . . . ....... .    20
Project Timetable   . . . . .                . . . . . . . . .  . . .  21
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . .  22
Project Implementation  ..... .. ..... ..                    . .   .    23
Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Status of Covenants..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Cropping Patterns and Yields  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Financial Analysis  .   ..   ......... . . . . ...... .                30
Economic Analysis   .      ....... ....... ... . .                     31
MAPS
IBRD 16189R
IBRD 16190R
IBfD 16191R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TPUBEELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1287-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Deep Tubewells II
Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1287-BD in the amount of SDR 60.5 million
was approved on August 10, 1982. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1990,
four years behind schedule. A disbursement grace period of four months (to April
30, 1991) was allowed; the final disbursement was made on May 20, 1991 when the
remaining balance of the Credit in the amount of SDR 905,197.04 was canceled.
Together with SDR 21.2 million and SDR 8 million canceled in 1986 and 1989,
respectively, total Credit cancellations were SDR 30.1 million.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were
prepared by the Resident Mission in Bangladesh (RMB).  They are based on the
President's Report, Staff Appraisal Report, Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, project files, progress reports and working papers cf the
consultants. Part II of the PCR was prepared by Borrower agencies. The two co-
financiers, the United Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration and the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau, have been consulted during PCR
preparation, and their comments have been taken into account.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1?87-RD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Oblectives
i.          The project primarily aimed at increasing foodgrain production in
the project area through: (a) increasing the irrigated area under deep tubewells
(DTW) from 345,000 acres in 1980-81 to about 665,000 acres in 1985-86;
(b) strengthening the two-tier cooperative system; and (c) ensuring that farmers
h-d access to essential production inputs and credit.
Implementation Experience
ii.         The project had an estimated implementation period of four years.
Due to significant delays, however, the Credit was formally extended four times
for four years to December 31, 1990. The final disbursement was made on May 20,
1991, and the remaining Credit balance of SDR 905,197.04 was cancelled. The main
reasons for the delay were: (a) late project start-up; (b) lack of institutional
capabilities; (c) delay in procurement of equipment; and (d) temporary fall in
demand for DTW.   These are discussed in greater detail  in the following
paragraph.
iii.        Late start, due to eight months' delay in credit effectiveness,
deprived the project of the first construction season. Project implementation,
involving three agencies, lacked coordination at the beginning; and establishing
and learning various implementation steps took longer than anticipated.
Procurement of DTW equipment experienced worse than customary delays. Initially,
the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) insisted on allowing participation of only
bidders of standardized equipment, while IDA favored open bidding. It took about
one and one-half years to resolve this issue.  Then followed a prolonged bid
evaluation and approval process by GOB and another eight months were lost.
Again, there were disagreements between IDA and GOB on award of contracts for
various components. However, a compromise solution was reached in July 1985,
whereby GOB agreed to provide its own funds for items not approved by IDA.
Further delays were encountered in post-award testing of engines and obtaining
a waiver on the ban on import of engines. Finally, initial deliveries commenced
in mid-1986, some three years after the start of the project. With equipment
procurement issues largely resolved, the project experienced lower than projected
demand for DTW. The main reasons for low demand were: (a) project area was too
small compared to the project sale target; (b) profitability of irrigated rice
production had declined; (c) many Upazilla Central Cooperative Associations
(UCCA) and Krislhi Samabaya Samities (KSS) were ineligible for credit; and
(d) farmers lost confidence in the process of obtaining DTW because of slow,
complicated loan sanction procedures.
iv.         In resr.Jnse to the low demand, GOB took a number of steps.   It
expanded the project area from 35 upazillas to 60, extended the project period



iv
7by four years and reduced the project sale  target.   Also  in  1988  the
beneficiaries were extended to include Grameen Bank and other non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and, in February 1990, GOB addressed the ineligibility
problem by agreeing to allow lending to qualified KSS under ineligible UCCA.
v.           In 1987 it was recognized that the appraisal target of an 80-acre
command area was not achievable, and it was therefore reduced to 60 acres.
vi.         The loan sanction and repayment performance under the project was
not satisfactory due to the cumbersome loan procedures and unwillingness by the
authorities to impose discipline.
vii.        The project introduced irrigation management programs (IMP) in 1,845
out of 2,559 wells which were handed over. The average command area under IMP
schemes was 62 acres, compared to 53 acres for non-IMP schemes.
viii.       Although the IDA Credit closed on December  31,  1990,  project
implementa-'on will continue until June 1992, mainly to complete the installation
of the remnaining DTW and to improve the irrigation standards over the project
area.   The requir-d funds will be provided by GOB and the United Kingdom's
Overseas Developmment Administration (ODA).
ix.         The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$142 million.
The final cost is expected to be US$97 million. The Credit account was closed
on May 20, 1991 when SDR 30.4 million had been disbursed by IDA from the total
revised allocation of SDR 31.30 million (SDR 29.2 million was cancelled). ODA
disbursed US$42 million as of December 1990, out of total revised allocation of
about US$47 million. Out of an allocation of US$9 million, US$5.9 million was
disbursed by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
Proiect Results
x.          The pro'ect was successful.  Most of the physical targets and the
primary objective of increasing foodgrain production were achieved. Though the
increase in irrigated area was below the project target, the shortfall was made
up by higher paddy yields and production than was assumed at appraisal.   A
cropping intensity of 194% was achieved as against 200% assumed in the SAR and
140% at pre-project level. The financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at
24% compared with the SAR estimate of 51%-70%. The economic rate of return (ERR)
is estimated at 15% compared with the SAR projection of 30%. The lower FRR and
ERR estimates are mainly due to the steep unforseen decline in the price of
foodgrains. The equity objective of the project was also achieved. Among the
negative results was the subsidization of DTW under the project.   DTW were
subsidized to a level which equated their cost per unit area with that of the
cheaper shallow tubewells (STW), resulting in proliferation of DTW in STW areas
at high fiscal and economic costs.
Sustainability
xi.         Evidence to date shows that KSS operating on a crop share basis, as
well as most of those levying cash, generate sufficient funds to cover O&M costs.
Repayment of loans made under the project is poor. However, this reflects lax
credit management, not inability to pay, and is a national, not project-specific
problem. In comparison to other countries in the region, Bangladesh is perhaps
the only one in which DTW farmers pay the full operational costs and a



v
considerable part of the investment costs.   It is therefore considered that
development under the project is sustainable.
Lasons Larned
xii.        The following principal lessons were learned from this project:
(a)   The project period should be based on the general implementation
experience in Bangladesh, particularly where multiple agencies,
controlli'ng individually critical project inputs, are involved;
(b)   Split  financing  of  different  components  of  units  should  be
discouraged to avoid interdependency for a complete unit;
(c)   To ensure appropriate deployment of different modes of irrigation
equipment, proper pricing is important. In this project, excessive
subsidization of DTW led to misallocation of resources; and
(d)   In the formation of user groups of small farmers, the size of the
groups should be kept as small as possible to minimize management
problems. Therefore, communally owned irrigation equipment should
be of the smallest affordable size.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1287-BD)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name            :  Deep Tubewells II
Credit No.              :   1287-BD
Vice Presidential Unit      Asia
Country                 :  Bangladesh
Sector                  .  Agriculture
Sub-sector              :  Minor Irrigation
Background
1.          Bangladesh, with an area of 35 million acres of predomiNately
fertile  alluvial  soils  and ample  water  resources,  is well  endowed with
agricultural resources.  Agriculture dominates economic activity, employs about
three fourths of the work force and directly accounts for about half of GDP.
About 76% of the agricultural GDP (in FY91) is derived from crops. Rice, by far
the most important crop, accounts for about 78% of the cropped area; jute, the
principal export, for 6%; and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcanie and vegetables for the remainder. Agricultural productivity
in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; prior to the project, paddy
yi2lds averaged only about 0.5 tons per acre.
2.          There is high potential for increasing agricultural production in
Bangladesh because of fertile soils and abundant scope for exploiting water
resources, in particular groundwater.   There are also serious constraints to
agricultural development such as heavy pressure of population on land, scarcity
of cultivable land, limited potential of part of the cultivated land, climate
hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient transportation for moving
farm inputs and produce.
3.          Increased production has to come mainly from land already under
cultivation, and expansion of irrigation is the main means for this, particularly
during the dry season. Early Government policies emphasized the development of
large-scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects. However, by the early
1960s, a change in emphasis gave greater priority to and reliance on the use of
low lift pumps (LLP) and tubewells to exploit groundwater where sustainable
surface water was not available. Three kinds of tubewells are used in Bangladesh
-- deep tubewells (DTW - typically using 20-35 HP diesel engines, yielding about
two cusecs), shallow tubewells (STW - typically equipped with 5 to 6 HP diesel
engines yielding less than one cusec), and hand tubewells (HTW).
4.          DTW are expected  to play a major role  in the Government  of
Bangladesh's (GOB) groundwater development program. Although DTW are the most
expensive of the tubewells (per unit of water pumped) used in Bangladesh and



2
require extra attention in terms of installation, group management and capacity
utilization, there are certain areas where they are required because of aquifer
conditions. About 13,000 DTW were installed prior to the project. Under a 1981
Medium Term Food Production Plan, GOB planned to install 18,000 additional DTW
by 1985. The Deep Tubewells II Project (DTW II) was an integral part of GOB's
efforts to promote the minor irrigation sector and to attain food self-
sufficiency by 1984/85. The project, which was prepared by FAO/CP, was appraised
by an IDA mission in October/November 1981. Negotiations for the Credit were
held in June 1982; the Credit was signed on August 26, 1982 and became effective
on May 11, 1983.
Prolect Obiectives and Descriution
5.          Proiect Obiectives.   The project's primary aim was to increase
foodgrain production in the project area through: (a) increasing the irrigated
area under DTW from 345,000 acres in 1980-81 to about 665,000 acres in 1985-86;
(b) strengthening the two-tier cooperative system.1/; and (c) ensuring that
farmers had access to essential production inputs and credit.
6.          Project  Description.    The  original  project  area  comprised  35
upazillas (later expanded to 60, para 26), including 10 upazillas of Mymensingh,
11 upazillas of Kishoreganj and 14 upazillas of Dhaka districts. The project
included the following components:
(a)   procurement  and  installation of 4,000  two-cusec  DTW  including
screens, casings, and pumpsets, and spare parts for maintaining
these wells;
(b)   procure,nt:nt of 25 reverse circulation rotary drilling rigs and
auxiliary equipment for these and 45 existing drilling rigs;
(c)   strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Bangladesh  Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) to plan, design and supervise the
installation of DTW by providing additional staff, office
facilities, vehicles, and monitoring and testing equipment;
(d)   technical assistance - providing about 25 staff-years of consultancy
time for: (i) BADC staff training; (ii) pilot studies to solve
special  problems  related  to well  design and  operation;  (iii)
regional groundwater studies outside the project areas, particularly
in the Sylhet and Comilla districts; and (iv) training for
Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) staff and agricultural
extension services;
Comprising primary societies (Krishi Samabaya Samity - KSS) federated into
unions at the upazilla level (Upazilla Central Cooperative Associations -
UCCA).



3
(e)   strengthening the BRDB and UCCA/KSS system for organizing farmers,
groups and expanding the Irrigation Management Program (IMP) through
the project area, by providing incremental staff office facilities,
housing, vehicles for field staff, and training of upazilla staff
and KSS members;
(E)   rural credit - providing medium-term credit through Bangladesh Bank
(BB) and Sonali Bank (SB) to UCCA/KSS for purchase and installation
of DTW;
(g)   evaluation - providing consultant time to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the project by esFablishing baseline data, and making
mid- and full-term impact assessments; and
(h)   procuremE.t of diesel fuel - providing diesel fuel to cover fuel
requirements in FY83 for all IDA-financed minor irrigation
facilities.
7.          Project  Costs  and Financing Plan.    Total  project  costs were
e&timated at about US$142 million equivalent. The IDA Credit of US$68 million
(later reduced to about US$37 million) was to finance about 51% of total project
cost net of taxes and duties. IDA financing was to contribute to all project
components except consultancy services and drilling equipment.   Grant aid of
about US$31.1 million (later increased to about US$47 mill'on) from the United
Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration (ODA) was to finance procurement
of part of the DTW components -n.i the foreign exchange costs of consultancy
services, including studies and training. Grant aid of about US$9 million from
the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) was to finance the purchase
of drilling rigs and auxiliary equipment.   The balance of project financing
(US$34 million) was to be covered by KSS/farmers, SB and GOB.
Proiect Concept. Design and Orzanization
8.          Concept.  The project was to assist GOB in its plan to achieve self-
sufficiency in foodgrain production, giving priority to minor irrigation
development.
9.          Design.  The project design was based on experience from a number
of ongoing projects in Bangladeslh, in particular the IDA-financed Northwest
Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD), and on the recommendations of the Joint
GOB/IDA Minor Irrigation Sector and Integrated Rural Development Program Reviews.
10.         During appraisal, the project area was selected on the basis of
several criteria, including unsuitability for the cheaper STW. Subsequently,
because of less-than-expected demand for DTW, the project area was expanded.  In
retrospect, it is now clear that while the selection criteria were generally
appropriate, many heavily subsidized DTW were developed in areas that were
suitable for more economical STW. Based on this experience, proper pricing is
now recognized to be essential for selecting the most suitable mode of
groundwater development, and the old policy of subsidizing the price of DTW down
to an STW equivalent price is seen to have been a mistake.
11.         The project was founded on a proven technology, well known in
Bangladesh, consisting of a standard two-cusec vertical turbine pump.   The
decision to limit the discharge to two cusecs was taken in order to limit the



4
command area per well to a size manageab.e by a group. Smaller units were not
considered because the technology and cos- were not known in Bangladesh then.
12.         The previous deep tubewell projects were based on rental of wells
to informal groups. Due to the limited success of this system (rental rates were
highly subsidized; collection of charges was negligible; and there were claims
of "water lordism"), the DTW II Project was changed to a more appropriate program
of sale to cooperative groups.   Beneficiaries not only had to pay for the
-ubsidized DTW but also for its full O&M costs.
13.         When the project was appraised,  minor irrigation equipment was
irrigating an average of 20-25 acres per installed cusec, while the technical
potential was estimated to be about 40 acres. The IMP Component was included to
improve utilization.  While the concept was sound, in retrospect, the chosen
target was over-ambitious (para 29).
14.         From the outset, the project was burdened by assuming an unrealistic
execution period of four years. This was far too short compared to the general
project execution experience in Bangladesh, in particular for a project such as
DTW II involving multiple agencies and requiring procurement of many items from
different sources.
15.         Organization.   BADC, a public sector agency, was responsible for
procuring and installing the DTW. To strengthen BADC, the project made provision
for consultant services. In view of its long experience in channeling public
sector support - minor irrigation development, and since supply and installation
of DTW were considered to be technically demanding, BADC was the most suitable
project  implementing  agency.    At  the  time  there  was  no  private  sector
alternative.
16.         The project was to sell DTW exclusively to KSS, with intermediation
by the UCCA, and with BRDB responsible for promoting the UCCA/KSS cooperative
system.   Given the size of the program, the small farm size requiring group
ownership, and the credit-based sale program requiring the use of formal groups,
reliance on the established BRDB/UCCA/KSS system was considered appropriate to
the situation at the time of project preparation and appraisal.
17.         The project provided medium-term credit to UCCA/KSS for purchasing
DTW through the Sonali Bank.   SB was chosen as it had been the exclusive
refinance agency for the UCCA/KSS cooperative system since 1973/74.
Project Implementation
18.         Credit Effectiveness.  The Credit became effective in May 1983, more
than eight months after signing. This was due to deiays by GOB in meeting two
conditions of effectiveness: (i) preparing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(ii) appointments to key positions in BADC and BRDB.



5
19.         Implementation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled to
be completed by June 1986, and the Credit was to be closed by December 31, 1986.
However, the Credit was extended four times for total of four years, and the
Credit account was finally closed on May 20, 1991.  The main reasons for the
delay were:
(a)   late project start-up;
(b)   over-estimation   of   institutional   capabilities   for   project
implementation;
(c)   unusual delay in procurement of equipment; and
(d)   temporary fall in demand for DTW.
20.         Project Start-up.   Due to the delay in credit effectiveness as
discussed in para 18, the first construction season, of the four originally
planned, was lost.
21.         Institutional Arrangements.  Pro'¢ct implementation involved three
agencies under different ministries.  This das unavoidable as implementation had
to follow a complicated sequence of interdependent planning and approvals.
Coordination among the three, from Dhaka down through districts and upazillas,
was seriously lacking at the beginning.   Establishing and learning various
implementation steps took longer than anticipated.   Project implementation,
however, improved significantly at the later stages, with cooperation gradually
improved among the participating agencies all the way down to field level. This
put the project on course and record achievements were made during the last two
years.
22.         Procurement.  Procurement of DTW equipment experienced worse than
customary delays. The financing of different components was split between IDA
and ODA, making procurement of complete sets dependent on the completion of
procurement from both sources.   The first ODA-financed procurement,  which
included all compenents of a tubewell except upper well casing and turbine pump,
arrived in 1984/85, while the first IDA-financed procurement, which covered the
two latter items, arrived in 1986/87.
23.         Disagreement between IDA and GOB at various stages of procurement
led to inordinate delays in procuring DTW components under IDA financing. GOB
initially insisted that only bidders of GOB standardized equipment would be
allowed to participate, while IDA favored open bidding and subsequent post-award
testing of the equipment. The issue was resolved after about one and one-half
years, and the first tenders were floated in February 1984 in line with tbe
procedure recommended by IDA. A pre-bid conference was held in March 1984 and
the tenders were opened on August 1, 1984.   Then followed a prolonged bid
evaluation and approval process by GOB, and complete documentation on GOB's bid
evaluation and award recommendations were received by IDA only in April 1985,
after a lapse of about eight months. Again there were disagreements between IDA
and GOB on award of contracts for various components.   In most cases, GOB
recommended award to bidders other than the ones with the lowest bid price, which
was not acceptable to IDA. In July 1985 a compromise was reached whereby GOB
agreed to provide its own funds for those items not approved by IDA. Further
delays were then encountered in post-award testing of engines, arranging foreign
exchange and obtaining a waiver on the ban on import of engines smaller than 35



6
HP (introduced in 1985). Finally, initial deliveries commenced in mid-1986, some
three years after the start of the project.  Meanwhile, the project had been
borrowing available stock of equipment from BADC's other programs. Without this
borrowing, the project would not have been able to complete a single well within
the original project period. Because of such slow progress, the project was
rated a *"4" (i.e., major problems not adequately addressed) by the supervision
missions of November 1985 and May 1986.
24.         The other physical features of the project--procurement of rigs and
auxiliary equipment, procurement of diesel fuel and construction of buildings--
were completed as planned. The status is shown in Part III, Section 4.
25.         DTW Demand. With equipment procurement issues largely resolved, the
project experienced an inadequate demand for DTW.  The main reasons for low
demand were: (i) project area was too small compared to the DTW sale target; (ii)
profitability of irrigated rice production had declined; (iii) many UCCA and YSS
were ineligible for credit (in 1986, 14 out of 60 (25%) UCCA were ineligible, and
by 1989 it worsened to 38%); and (iv) farmers lost confidence in the process of
obtaining DTW because of slow, complicated loan sanction procedures.
26.         In order to increase demand, GOB took a number of steps.   It
expanded the project area from 35 upazillas to 60 between 1984 to 1986 (the SAR,
in fact, provided that in case of a shortage of demand, expansion into adjacent
regions would be considered). The project period was extended by four years.
The project's target was reduced to 2,750 DTW as per recommendation of the
IDA/ODA June 1987 joint review mission (but was later reinstated to the original
target since performance improved). In 1988 the beneficiaries were extended to
include Grameen Bank and other non-governmental organizations (NGOs) who had
proven expertise in group formation and management. And, in February 1990, GOB
addressed the ineligibility problem by agreeing to allow lending to qualified KSS
under ineligib'e UCCA.
27.         DTW Command Area.  The 1987 IDA/ODA mission also recognized that the
appraisal target of an 80 acre command area was not achievable due to:
(i) domination of winter rice (para 38) in the cropping pattern rather than the
mix of rice and wheat assumed in the SAR (due to higher profits from rice);
(ii) less-than-expected impact of the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
and the IMP; and (iii) lack of an adequate financial incentive for groups to
expand their size and the size of the command area beyond about 60 acres. The
mission therefore recommended to reduce the target command area to 60 acres.
28.         Credit.  Largely due to the institutional complexity of selling DTW
via bank loans channeled through UCCA to KSS, both loan sanction and repayment
performance under the project were unsatisfactory. The project Banking Plan did
not offer much improvement to the existing cumbersome loan sanction procedures,
and UCCA's term loan accounting, monitoring, reporting and recovery management
systems have been weak.  Weakness of these systems, and unwillingness by the
authorities to impose discipline, resulted in poor recovery of the loans
disbursed under the project. Up to January 1991, SB disbursed Tk. 31 million,
of which Tk. 9 million was due for recovery, and only Tk. 3.6 million or 33% was
recovered. Although the recovery rate is low in absolute terms, it is about the
same level as the recovery rates realized by credit institutions in the country.
Efforts are now under way to formulate suggestions for improving the Banking Plan
and overall credit accounting and management system.



7
29.          Irrigation Management Program.  The IMP was carried out jointly by
BRDB, BADC and DAE.   Initially little progress was achieved due to: (i) high
implementation target (about 35 schemes per upazilla per year compared to
national target of five to nine); (ii) insufficient trained project staff for the
program; and (iii) lack of coordination between the three agencies.
Implementation improved after GOB agreed to post more IMP staff (one team for
each upazilla) and adopt a lower target (nine schemes/team/year) as recommended
by the May 1986 supervision mission.   The quality of training was improved
through preparation of manuals, course materials and development of training
plans based on actual  needs.    Coordination  at the  field  level was  also
established. The project covered 1,845 wells out of 2,559 which were handed over
and ready for IMP implementation. The average command area under IMP schemes
rose consistently, and in 1990 it was 62 acres compared to 53 acres for non-IMP
schemes.
30.         Pilot Schemes to Study Improved Distribution System.   Because of
objections by Government to establish the pilot schemes, on the grounds that
considerable applied research work had already been undertaken, a late start was
made in early 1988. Project consultants established 12 demonstration schemes by
December 1990 with an ambitious target to complete a total of 74 schemes by June
1992. After testing the early schemes, two main approaches evolved under the
project: to promote the use of low-cost distribution systems comprising earth
channels; and to use short lengths of pipeline in areas which are restricted from
expansion by physiographic obstacles.   Completed schemes were being used to
demonstrate to farmers the benefit of improved distribution systems. A water
management model was also being developed for use by farmers from the experience
of these schemes. The merits of improved distribution systems, including their
cost-effectiveness, was being studied in collaboration with the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Institute (BARI).
31.         Operation and Maintenance.  O&M of DTW was carried out by the KSS.
They drew funds for the purpose from water charges and used them to employ a
manager and to buy technical maintenance support as needed. Evidence to date
shows that KSS generated sufficient funds (especially with crop sharing
arrangements,  para 45)  to cover  these  costs.    However,  contrary  to SAR
expectations that O&M services would be gradually provided by the private sector,
BADC continued to provide such support under the project.   A lack of clear
decision-making by GOB on the future role of BADC, the retention of large stocks
of duty-free spare parts by BADC, the continued imposition of unfavorable taxes
and duties on spare parts imported by the private sector, and the employment of
large numbers of BADC mechanics, inhibited private sector entry to the market for
these services.
32.         Project Extended Period.  Although the IDA Credit closing date was
formally extended to December 31, 1990, and followed by the closing of the Credit
account on May 20, 1991, the project proformas for BADC and BRDB, however, allow
continuation of GOB funding until June 1992. In addition, ODA will continue to
fund the technical assistance program over the same period. The main activities
during this period will be to: (i) complete commissioning of about 400 wells and
handing over of about 600, in order to achieve the target of 4,000 wells; and
(ii) improve irrigation standards over the project area by constructing further
demonstration schemes and providing training to farmers and involved agencies to
operate the project.



8
33.         ProJect Cost.  The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
US$142 million. The final cost is expected to be US$97 million at the end of
June 1992, as shown in Part III, Section 5-A. The decrease in cost is mainly due
to depreciation of the Taka value against the Dollar (US$1 is now equivalent to
Tk. 35.74 compared to Tk. 19.5 at appraisal).
34.         IDA Disbursement.   After allowing an additional four months for
disbursement after the Credit closing date to enable submission of disbursement
claims against expenditures incurred before the Credit closing date, the Credit
account finally closed on May 20, 1991 with SDR 30.4 million disbursed from the
total revised allocation of SDR 31.30 million. ODA: ODA disbursed US$42 million
as of December 1990 out of total revised allocation of about US$47 million.
Disbursement will continue up to June 1992, and it is estimated that the
remaining US$5 million would be disbursed during this period. ADAB: out of US$9
million allocation US$5.9 million was disbursed.
35.         Credit Allocations.  The credit allocations were first revised on
August 12, 1986 when SDR 21.2 million was cancelled from Categories l(a), 2(a)
and (b), and 7 of the DCA. This was due to: (i) over-estimation of equipment
costs and contingencies at appraisal; (ii) devaluation of the Taka against the
US dollar; and (iii) the decision by GOB to finance from its own resources the
costs of gear boxes and pumps. The second revision was made on December 19, 1989
when SDR 8 million was cancelled from DCA Categories 3, 5 and 7, and allocations
under Categories 1 (a) and (b), 2 (a) and (b), and 4 were increased. During the
second revision, the estimated excess amount was cancelled from Category 3. The
surplus funds were overestimated, however, with the result that the balance in
Category 3 did not cover the remaining eligible amount to be claimed by GOB. IDA
therefore agreed to meet the shortfall from Credit 1384-BD.
36.         Compliance with Legal Covenants.  DCA covenants were complied with,
except for increasing and improving collection of DTW rental charges. Given the
difficulty of improving collection in a generally very poor cost recovery
climate, and the ineffectiveness of increasing the rents if they are not
collected, GOB proposed to adopt a policy of selling rental DTW. So far 2,115
rental DTW out of a total 12,101 have been sold. IDA found this satisfactory and
deleted the relevant covenants (Part III, Section 6).
37.         Proiect Risks.  The potential project risks identified at appraisal
were underutilization of tubewells, institutional weaknesses and lack of
coordination among the participating agencies. However, the following risks,
which also adversely affected project implementation, were not foreseen:
(i) unusual delays in procurement of equipment; and (ii) inadequate demand for
DTW. (In fact, based on poor past procurement experience, great efforts were
made to lay the foundations for efficient procurement during project preparation
and appraisal). Fortunately, these were not serious enough to jeopardize the
eventual achievement of the project objectives,
Proiect Results
38.         Proiect Objectives.  The primary objective of increasing foodgrain
production was achieved. The annual incremental production of paddy was 363,700
mt compared to the 282,000 mt projected in the appraisal at full development.
However, little of the projected incremental wheat production of 197,000 mt was
achieved. The increase in irrigated areas was below the project target as the
target commatnd area was not achieved (during implementation the target was



9
reduced from 80 acres to a more realistic 60 acres). Howe.er, this shortfall was
largely made up by higher paddy yields than assumed at appraisal. Boro paddy
accounted for about 51% of the total irrigated area, almost to the complete
exclusion of wheat, which was contrary to the SAR assumption of substantial wheat
production; and higher boro yields (49 md/ac against 40 md/ac assumed in the SAR)
boosted paddy production. A cropping intensity of 194% was achieved as against
200% assumed in the SAR and 140% at pre-project level.  A comparison of the
present cropping pattern with the SAR projection is shown in Part III, Section
8.
39.         Concerning  the  project's  other  objectives--strengthening  the
cooperative system and ensuring farmers, access to essential project inputs--
objective data are not available. However, the production success indicates that
inputs were not a constraining factor.   The overall weak management of the
cooperative system, and of the cooperatives themselves, provided a poor
environment for the project. Nevertheless, it is believed that the majority of
the KSS, which have benefitted from the project, have been supplied with an asset
in the shape of a DTW, which will be used sustainably and which could ensure
their viability should the general situation become more conducive for the
viability of the cooperative movement.   The IMP Component had some success,
particularly in improving the collaboration among agencies. The equity objective
was achieved.
40.         Physical Results.  As shown in Part III, Section 4, the physical
targets of the project were substantially achieved.
41.         Project Impact.   The project monitoring and evaluation surveys
showed success in organizing substantial participation of tenants and small
farmers in cooperative group irrigation. This positive impact disproved earlier
criticism that DTW had an adverse impact on equity. In fact, a larger percentage
of the land of small farmers was irrigated by DTW than that of large farmers.
The incremental income distribution was also in favor of the small and landless
farmers. Total incremental employment created under the project could not be
estimated but is substantial.
42.         Introducing DTW sales in place of the rental system, and thus making
the beneficiaries pay for the full cost of O&M, was an important success.
Indeed, Bangladesh has a better record than most countries in terms of cost
recovery from irrigation development.
43.         Though  the subsidized DTW sales were  to be  limited to areas
unsuitable for STW, to meet the project's sale target, they proliferated in STW
areas (since the subsidy reduced the cost per ha of DTW to the level of STW) at
great fiscal and economic costs.   The project's support for subsidies also
prevented private sector participation in the supply of DTW and thus created a
de-facto  public  sector  monopoly.       It  also  eliminated  incentives  to
develop/introduce alternative lower cost technologies for pumping water from deep
acquifers. The support of DTW subsidies was seen to be a mistake and is being
remedied under a proposed National Minor Irrigation Development Project, which
has been approved in FY91.
44.         Financial and Economic Analysis.  The financial rate of return (FRR)
earned by a KSS operating a DTW is about 24% compared with the SAR estimate of
51%-70%. For individual farmers, the recently approved Bangladesh - National
Minor Irrigation Development Project estimates that FRR ranges from 27% to 51%



10
depending on the ecological zone in which a farm is located.   The project's
economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 15% compared to the SAR projection
of 30%. The main assumptions made in PCR analyses are shown in Part III. The
most important factor contributing to the lower FRR and ERR was the adverse shift
in the world market price of rice, which averaged US$195/mt rather than US$510/mt
as assumed in the SAR. The exchange rate shift of US$1 - Tk. 19.5 (SAR) to US$1
- Tk. 36 provided only limited compensation for this.  The commissioning of
project wells over ten rather than four years both delayed benefits and increased
project operating costs. The SAR's key assumptions and actual performance are
summarized below:
(a)   command area achieved is 57 acres, less than the SAR projection of
80 acres;
(b)   incremental production of wheat was negligible; incremental output
of rice is 363,000 mt compared to the 282,000 mt projected (because
of the greater value of rice than wheat, the total value of project
incremental output is only slightly less than would be the value of
output projected, desDite the lower tonnage);
(c)   rice yields are higher than forecast; and
(d)   world market price of rice is much below the SAR projection.
Proiect Sustainability
45.         Evidence to date shows that KSS operating on a crop share basis, as
well as most of those levying cash, generate sufficient funds to cover O&M costs.
Repayment of loans made under the project is poor. However, this reflects lax
credit management, not inability to pay, and is a national, not project-specific
problem. In comparison to other countries in the region, Bangladesh is perhaps
the only one in which DTW farmers pay the full operational costs and a
considerable part of the investment costs.   It is therefore considered that
development under the project is sustainotble.
IDA Performance
46.         The project was generally well conceived and can be considered a
success.    The  SAR  provided  the  required  framework  and  guidelines  for
implementation  of  the  project.    However,  the  short  project  period  was
unrealistic, particularly in view of the multiple agencies involved in project
implementation. Some procurement delay could have been avoided if the equipment
standardization issue, which was already in existence when the project was
appraised, had been foreseen and resolved before the start of the project.
Towards the end of implementation, IDA failed to correctly estimate project
savings and an excess amount was cancelled. Otherwise IDA's supervision effort
was adequate with a high degree of staffing continuity. In addition, RMB was in
continuous touch with project level staff and made regular field visits.
47.         The principal lessons learned are summarized below:
(a)   The project period should be based on the general implementation
experience in Bangladesh, particularly where multiple agencies,
controlling individually critical project inputs, are involved;



11
(b)   Split financing of different components of equipment units should
be discouraged;
(c)   Equipment prices should be at a level condu4cive to economically
efficient deployment of different modes of irrigation equipment.
As indicated in para 43, in this project excessive subsidization of
DTW led to misallocation of resources;
(d)   In the formation of user groups of small farmers, the size of the
groups should be kept as small as possible to minimize management
problems. Therefore, communally owned irrigation equipment should
be of the smallest affordable size; and
(e)   Private sector involvement in the sale and installation of DTW
should be encouraged by ensuring equal terms for public and private
sector activities.
Borrower Performance
48.         Apart from the large, avoidable procurement delays, and given the
relatively complex organization of the project involving a number of agencies,
the Borrower's performance in carrying out its obligations was generally
satisfactory.   This was particularly so during the last two years when the
project recorded very good progress and reached its desired goals. The project
was carried out generally in compliance with the DCA. The shortcomings observed
during project implementation were:
(a)   Eight months taken in meeting the credit effectiveness conditions;
(b)   Inordinate procurement delays including failures to follow IDA's
guidelines;
(c)   Poor coordination among agencies in the early years of the project;
(d)   Credit repayment was a failure due to institutional weakness and
unwillingness to impose strict discipline; however, this has been
true throughout the financial sector and is not peculiar to this
project; and
(e)   DTW rental rates and collections were not increased.  However, in
lieu, it was agreed to sell the rental equipment.
Proiect Relationship
49.         IDA's relationship with Government, project agencies and cofinancing
agencies was generally good.
Consulting Services
50.         The performance of the consultants, funded by ODA, was excellent.
A total of 652 person-months was delivered up to January 1991 as against the
original project target of 300 person-months, which was estimated on the basis
of a four-year project period.  Another 150 person-months are expected to be
utilized during the extended period of the project to June 1992. Initially, the



12
consultants provided support to procurement and groundwater engineering, and
later concentrated more on institutional, agricultural and technical aspects of
command area development. Support for project management and assistance with the
identification and removal of bottlenecks in project implementation were also
provided. The consultants established an extensive computerized database of the
construction records of all tubewells and their irrigation performance.   The
periodic Progress Reports (20) and occasional Working Papers (58), prepared by
the consultants, were very useful in monitoring project performance, identifying
and resolving implementation issues, and also taking important policy decisions.
Project Documentation and Data
51.         The DCA and PA were adequate and appropriate for achieving project
objectives. The SAR provided an adequate framework for project implementaticn.
The periodic Progress Reports and occasional Working Papers, prepared by the
project consultants, were very useful in monitoring progress.   The project
established a far better-than-average database, and most of the data relevant to
the preparation of the PCR were readily available.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1287-BD)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
[Submitted by Mr. Delwar Hossain
Project Director DTW II, BADC]
[11 ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF INFORMATION PRESENTED IN PART-IIIV.
a)    While progress of installation of deep tubewell up to Feb '91 has been
correctly depicted in table 4, the current status (up to 31.5.91; of relevant
items are as given below.
1.  Wells drilled              :    4015 nrs.
2.  Wells Commissioned               3771 nrs.
3.  Handed over to farmers            3611 nrs.
b)    In table 5A, actual expenditure against purchase of drilling ,igs and
auxiliary equipment has not been shown correctly. The correct amount shall be
A$ 7.8 m and the total project costs shall, therefore, be corrected accordingly.
c)    In the table 5B, the amount shown against ADAB is in US$ where as it ought
to have been in A$. Sho.uld it be shown in US$, the amount shown shall have to
be converted from A$ to US$.
Besides above, all data/information provided appear to be adequate and accurate.
[21 ANALYSIS CONTAINED IN PART-I.
The analysis contained Part-I of PCR appears to be consistent with BADC's views.
Delineated below are some of the areas which BADC would like to reiterate tc
supplement and complement the analysis.
a)    Procurement of inouts (DTW materials & eguiRment):
It has been mentioned in the analysis that although the credit became effective
in 1983, first lot of ODA's procurement arrived in '84-85 (not complete sets) and
those of IDA arrived in '86-87.  This clearly showed, as mentioned, that the
project had to take off without having materials from out of project financing
at least during first 2-3 years. Had not materials been borrowed from BADC's on-
going projects, progress in DTW installation would have been nil during this
1/    The errors in Part III pointed out by the Borrower refer to an earlier
draft of Part III. They have been corrected in the final PCR.



14
period.   BADC strongly feels that any similar future undertaking should be
programmed and phased in such a way that physical execution of the field
installation starts after adequate materials/equipment for at least one year
requirement are at hand.
b) Proiect ImRact
In the analysis of project impact (para 43) it has been stated that "The project
support for subsidies also prevented private sector participation in the supply
of DTW and this created a de-facto public sector monopoly. This was seen to be
a mistake and is being remedied under a proposed National Minor Irrigation
Development Project which is expected to be approved in FY91." BADC feels, the
conclusion that "this was seen to be a mistake" has been drawn at a prematured
state. Success level of "subsidized deep tubewells" may not be repeated in case
of "full cost paid DTWs" under stipulation of NMIDP. The "mistake" will have
been established only after post implementation evaluation of NMIDP was made.
[3] EVALUATION OF WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
Part-I of the PCR adequately covered the performance of Bank. However, the under
mentioned points are added as BADC's observation.
a)    Weaknesses were, however, envisaging an unrealistic four years project
period (extended later) and not foreseeing "standardization" issue contributing
to delay in procurement which could partially be avoided.   Besides Bank's
cancellation of a certain part of loan amount from projected savings was not
based on accurate calculation.   The most adverse effect has fallen on the
category 3 of DCA (Loan part F).
In the Aide-Memoire of Dec '89 Review Mission (Aide-Memoire Attachment-l, Page 3)
showed that by end '90, disbursement application would have been submitted for
2008 wells out of 2889 commissioned. Accordingly amount under loan part F was
slashed from SDR 15.75 m to SDR 6.38 m which would not suffice for re-finarcing
project total of 4000 DTWs. Actual progress achieved up to credit expiry period
(31-12-90) was 3424 installed, 3047 handed over and 2847 billed for, which
exceeded all expectations. Bank, however, continued to provide refinancing from
Cr. 1384-BD and to date 3771 wells have been commissioned, 3611 handed over, 3504
billed for and bills for 3087 have been settled (BRDB groups only).   Now,
although financing from Cr. 1384-BD continues to June '91, bills for a
substantial number of wells (around 500-600 nrs) will have remained unsettled on
the cut off date of 30.06.91 with no other known source to cater to relevant
need. World Bank had originally been committed to finance under Loan Part-F for
entire 4000 wells but the present scenario leaves a dark shadow on settlement of
payment for the mentioned wells although these wells, for all practical purposes,
would be completed within 30.6.92 as specified in the Project Proforma.
b)    Through bi-annual Review Mission and a cooperative,  near continuous
professional presence at RMB, the Bank substantially fulfilled its role in
assisting in successful implementation of the project.
(4] EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The complex nature of the project with involvement of four agencies (BADC, BRDB,
DAE, SB) were largely responsible for delays and slow progress in crawling stage
of the project. Improved inter agencies linkage and cooperation at different
levels ensured and resulted in greater efficiency in implementation and extending



15
greater backup support to tubewell users.  Since 1987-88, a record number of
wells have been drilled, commissioned and project drilling target of 4000 wells
was achieved in March '91.
[5] EFFECTIVENESS OF RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BANK AND BORROWER
Relationship  between  Bank  and borrower  (BADC)  has  been  good.    Only  a
misunderstanding that caused some administrative difficulties to the project
cropped out of a decision by the Bank, during Dec'98 review mission, to cancel
SDR 8 million from categories 3,5,7 of DCi. (Part-I para-39). This resulted in
a shortfal' of funds required for refinancing (Loan part-F). Bank's calculations
for refinancing underestimated number of wells for which disbursement
applications would be made by expiry date i.e. 31.12.91. This problem, however,
mentioned in item-*3 of part-iI of PCR.
[61 PERFORMANCE OF ODA AND ADAB AS JOINT CO-FINANCIER
Funding for materials (engines, screen) and for consulting services were provided
by ODA.  SEADD from Bangkok and local advisers from British High Commission
participated in the bi-annual joint IDA-ODA Review Missions.   Since 1988, a
Renewable Natural Resources adviser has been in post in Dhaka extending technical
and administrative support to the project. In totality ODA's cooperation and
assistance had always been and are commendable.
Besides, ADAB provided Drilling rigs and Auxiliary equipment to this project and
their contribution had been admirable.
(7] LESSONS LEARNED
Part-I of the PCR adequately indicates the lessons learned from the project.
BADC's views in conjunction with those mentioned in p.>ra 47 (part-l) are given
below.
a)    Project period, in any such future undertaking should be based on gener.l
implementation experience in Bangladesh. Where mult.ple agencies are involv.d
who would be controlling individually critical inputs, coordinating and
harmonizing aspect shall have to be assured prior to embarking upo-l
implementation.
b)    Split financing of different components should be shunned as far as
practicable. This will reduce inter dependency for a complete unit that was seen
to have delayed project implementation, particularly in the first half of the
project period.
c)    To  ensure  appropriate  deployment  of different  makes  of  irrigation
equipment, price should be a factor. Extent of subsidization was proved to have
a direct effect on allocation of resources.
d)    Greater flexibility in the pricing of subsidized wells ought to have been
introduced at an early stage of the project to reflect the cost and reliability
of DTW equipment. CNAMC K395A1, a model of water cooled Chinese engines that
were procured under the credit have been very widely criticized by the purchasers
for a variety of reasons. The harsh proving grounds of Bangladesh exposed the
limitations of such engines and demand for their replacement, owing to poor
performance, was mounting.   In recognition of high demand for an superior
reputation of other makes such as I.ister, Duetz, Yanmar, etc, Govt. recommended



16
a reduction in selling prices of well equipped with Chinese engines from
Tk.1,75,000 to Tk.l,00,000 in 1988.   It  would, therefore,  have been more
appropriate should such flexibility in pricing subsidized wells been introduced
from the very beginning.
e)    It has been experienced that the World Bank policy makes it imperative for
the borrower to procure materials/equipment at the lowest quoted rates should the
offer be acceptable. For BADC, problem becomes serious when, having followed
this policy, it ends up getting prime movers of different makes from different
ICBs. This does not only lead to selectivity problems from farmers, end, but
also different models give rise to spare parts problem due to diversity. So the
lesson is that for efficient management, in the future, efforts should be made
to try and keep the number of Makes to a minimum.
f)    Any future project should be programmed and phased in such a way so that
physical execution of the field installation starts only after adequate
materials/equipment for at least one year's requirement are at hand.



17
[Submitted by A.F. Nurul Azan Khan,
Dy. General Manager, Sonali Bank]
Mrs. Wahida Huq,
Program Officer,
World Bank RMB,
3A,Paribagh,
Dhaka
Dear Mrs. Huq,           IDA DTW-2 PROJECT (PROJECT NO. 1287-BD):
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT,
The captioned Project expired on 31-12-90 and we understand that
preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR) is under way. Although we are
not directly involved in preparation of the captioned report, we would like to
put on records our following comments as Participating Credit Institution (PCI)
in disbursing credit in the field against DTWs installed under the projects.
2.    Out of the total project target of 4000 DTW the bank has sanctioned loan
against 3904 No. of DTWs. Bills have been paid against 3087 DTWs and another 554
is expected to be paid by 30-6-91. There would stili be a backlog of about 263
Bills which relate to DTWs installed against sanction prior to '89-90' but
payment not claimed from the Bank. We understand that most of these DTWs have
been handed over and are being used by the beneficiaries free of cost. Since
submission of bill would entail repayment of loan installment and interest, none
of the field functionaries do take interest in processing bills against these
DTWs unless hammered by Head Offices. The ultimate burden falls on the bank as
it has to disburse loan against used DTWs which ultimately affects recovery due
to short span of economic life of such DTWs.
3.    We have paid a total sum of Ta 41.12 crore to BADC against 3087 DTWs as on
30-4-91. The rate of recovery (on demand) is only 14X. The present outstanding
of Ta 46.04 crore has surpassed the original disbursed amount. The Bangladesh
Bank has already withdrawn their refinanced amount of Ta.2.48 crore. The present
refinance cover stands at Ta.34.36 crore against outstanding of Ta.46.04 crore
i.e. Ta.11.68 is lying uncovered at a subsidized rate of interest. This amount
would increase gradually d'te to deduction of refinanced amount by Bangladesh Bank
on the one hand and non-recovery of due installments at the field on the other.
4.    The normal trend of recovery has further been affected by the Govt.
declaration of remission of April. loan up to Ta.5000/-. Although the amount
Involved in DTW is far above Ta.5000/-, but the farmers are withholding repayment
on the expectation of remission in this case also.
The above issues might appear to be exclusively of the banks own concern,
but we feel that the problem of above nature of the Participating Credit



18
Institutions should also be taken care of when formulating any future project or
evaluating the performance of the on going ones.
Thanking you,
Yours Sincerely,
(A.F. 7URUL AZAN KHAN
DY. GENERAL MANAGER)



19
(Submitted by M. Baset, Director,
Field Services, BRDB, Dhaka]
IDA DEEP TUBE WELL-2 PROJECT
(BRDB COMPONENT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART-II: Proiect Review from Borrower's perspectiveX.
(a)   Adeguacv and Accuracy of information contained ia Part-III.
The actual figures shown against capital and incremental operating costs for
BRDB seems to be excessive. As per our record the figure will be $ 2.92 million in
local currency and nil in foreign currency.
(b)   Comments on the analysis contained in Part-I.
From BRDB's points of view the analysis contained in Part-I of the PCR seems
to be realistic and a correct reflection of the situation obtained.
(c)   Evaluation of World Bank's Performance.
As far as the Bank's performance is concerned, we agree to the views &
observations laid down in Part-I of the PCR. However, we like to add one major lesson
learned from the project as below:-
(I) Too many different kinds of engines should not be supplied to the
farmers under any project as it creates management, maintenance & operational
problems. Limited types of engines depending on the choice of farmers should be
supplied.
(d)   Evaluation of Borrowers own performance.
The relevant part of the PCR adequately covers the performance of the Borrower.
So we do agree to it.
(e)   Assessment of relationship between the Bank & the Borrower.
Analysis contained in Part-I of the PCR with regard to the relationship between
Bank & the Borrower appears to be consistent with BRDB's views.
(f)   Performance of the Co-financiers & the effectiveness of their relationship with
the Borrower.
Relationship between BRDB and the Co-financiers has always been satisfactory
and cordial throughout the project period which contributed much towards the success
of the project.
(M. BASET)
Director (Field Services)
BRDB, Dhaka
v/    The error in Part III pointed out by the Borrower refers to an earlier
draft of Part III. It has been corrected in the final PCR.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
B. NGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
(Credit 1287-BD)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits
Title (Credit)         Purpose                          Approval    Status
North-West Tubewell   To increase foodgrain              10/72       Completed
Project                production, through                           12/82
(Credit 341-BD)        installation of 3,000 DTWs, in
a region that had good
agricultural potential.
National Minor         To promote faster growth in                   New project. The
Irrigation             agriculture through increased                 Credit for this
Development Project   private sector investment in                   project was approved
minor irrigation development.                 by IDA's Board of
Directors in May
1991. The project
will be implemented
over a seven-year
period starting from
FY92.



21
2. Project Timetable
Item                         Planned Date          Actual Date
Identification                                                     -
Preparation                                               August 1981
Appraisal Mission                         -               October/November 1981
Credit Negotiations                       -               June 1982
Board Approval                            -               August 10, 1982
Credit Signature                          -               August 26, 1982
Credit Effectiveness                 December 1982        May 11, 1983
Credit Closing                       December 31, 1986   December 31, 1990 1/
Project Completion                   June 30, 1986        June 30, 1992
Four months' disbursement grace period was allowed, and the Credit account was
finally closed on May 20, 1991.



22
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                 82/83     83/84      84/85    85/86      86/87      87/88     88/89       89/90      90/91
Appraisal Estimate              15.6      42.6       58.2     66.2       68.0            -                -          -
Actualy'                        0.0       9.21       9.50      13.33     19.23      22.47     24.79        32.09     36.62
Actual as X of Estimate         0         22         16       20         28         33        36          47         54
v As of May 21, 1991, when the final disbursement was made.



23
4. Project ImRlementation
Actual
Achievements
Indicators                     Unit           SAR Target       (February 1991)
Procurement of DTW             No.             4,000              4,000
Installation of DTW            No.             4,000            3,561"
Drilling rigs                  No.                25                 17
Tractors                       No.               140                140
Pump Test Set                  No.                42                 42
Welding Set                    No.                85                 85
Compressor                     No.                37                 35
Buildings                      No.                91                 88
Technical Assistance           MM                300                655
Imported Diesel Fuel           US$ million        10                 10
A/      The balance (439) will be commissioned in the extended project period with
continuing assistance from the ODA financed consultants.



24
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                            Actual   (PCR Estimate)
(USS million)                                  (USS million)
Component                     Local          Foreign             Total           Local         Foreign         Total
Procurement of 4,0CJ
DTW including
spare parts                    3.82            53.48            56.76               10.0         34.0             44.0
Installation of
4000 DTWs                     38.76            12.93             51.69             20.0                           20.0
Purchase of drilling
rigs and auxiliary
equipment                       2.26            8.97             11.23               -             5.9              5.9
Capital & incremental
operating costs
for BADC                        1.48            0.62              2.10               9.0           0.2             9.2
Capital & incremental
operating costs
for BRDB                       3.23             1.59              4.82               2.92          -                2.92
Consultancy services
including training &
studies                        0.62             4.30              4.92               0.7           4.0             4.7
Project evaluation             0.26             0.15              0.41               0.01                          0.01
Imported diesel fuel           -               10.00            10.00                -            10.0            10.0
Total ProJect Cost            49.89            92.04           141.93              42.63          54.1            96.73
B.  Proiect Financing
Planned                                    Final (Estimate)
Source                         US$ million                Percent                  US$ million    Percent
IDA                                  68.0                    48.0                            36.6                37.8
ODA                                  31.14                   22.0                            47.0                48.6
ADAB                                   9.0                     6.0                             5.9                 6.1
GOB                                  33.79                   24.0                              7.2                 7.5
Total                              141.93                  100.0                             96.7              100.0



25
6. Status of Covenants
SectionwCovoanwt                        Subject                      Status                       Coments
3.01(a-d)             Borrower to carry out project with             OK
duie diligence and efficiency
3.02                  Borrower to emiploy consultants                OK
3.03                  Borrower to establish project                  OK
Coordination and District
Coordination Comiittee
3.04Cc-b)             Borrower to appoint Executive                  OK
Engineers and Deputy Directors
3.05                  Insurance and exclusive use                    OK
3.06Cc-c)             Borrower to furnish documents and              OK
maintain records
3.06(d)               Project completion report                      NYD
3.07                  Borrower to furnish plans for                  OK
monitoring and evaluation
3.08(a)               Borrower to furnish by March 1983              OK
inventory of UCCA and KSS showing date of
last audit
3.08(b)               Borrower to subnit phased audit                DLET      Not complied with under DTW-11 but
program for UCCA/KSS by June 1985                       under RD-II (Credit 1384-8D) audit
satisfactory.
3.09(a)               BADC to maintain management unit               OK
3.09(b)               BADC to furnish by September 1983
proposals for reorganisation of
irrigation wing
3.09Cc)               BADC to complete (b) by September
1984
3.10(a)               Borrower to furnish by June 30, 1983           OK
pilot program for alternative DTW
designs
3.10(b)               BADC to employ by June 30, 1983 an             DLET      Plans not executed, as NPCC decided to
Executive Engineer for implementation                   drop pilot program; now being executed
of the pilot program                                    by ODA consultants. Ex. engineer
subsequently withdrawn.
3.11                  Borrower to furnish by December 1983           OK        Drafts prepared and discussed;
proposals for the regulation of                         Groundwater Ordinance gazetted; UITS
surface and groundwater development                     are in existence.
3.12                  Borrower to implement IMP in the               OK
Project area
3.13(a)               Borrower to adjust DTW prices                  OK
annually to effect decrease in
subsidies
3.13(b)               Borrower to ensure spare part supply           OK
at full cost



26
sbtto n/Covun nt                        Subject                     Status                       Co  nnts
3.13(c)               Borrower to increase DtW rental rates         DLET      GOB proposed to adopt a policy of
disposal of rental DTW.
3.13(d)               Borrower to ensure increasing                 DLET      Same as 3.13Cc).
collection of rental rates
(75X after 83/84)
3.14                  Borrower to make available term               OK        Credit for drillers not used owing to
credit for drilling contractors                         change in procedure.
and farmers
3.15                  Borrower to review interest rate              OK
structure
3.16                  Borrower to restructure IRDB into             OK
BRDB by December 31. 1982
4.01                  Borrower to furnish audited financial         OK
statements six months after
completion of each financial year
4.02                  Maintenance of facilities                     OK
Schedule 3            Procurement                                   OK
Schedule 4            Lending Terms and conditions                  OK
OK        *  Covenant Complied with
NYD       *  Not yet due
DLET      =  Deleted



27
7. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inguts  (Staffweeks)
PRE-
TASK      FY79   fY79    FY80   fY81   fY82   FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91  TOTAL
TAS      F_?    FY..    FYSO.  FY8       FY        .      .      ._  --__     .._. . . .. ,.....   .. ..   .... .....    ....    ... ...    .... .
Lamp                              1.4   32.9                                                      3.4                    37.
LE#4A                                    74.8    1.1                                                                     75*9
LENN                                     10.4     4.6                                                                    13.1
LENr                                     11.7     1.4                                                                    13.1
LPM                                              20.7   43.9    6.1    46.6   31.5   11.3   15.4   18.2    11.9  259.6
PCR                                                                                                               7.8    7.8
PAD                                                .7      .6      .1      .6      .9                                     2.9
PAD                                                                                .7                                      .7
TOTAL                             1.4  129.8   28.4   44.5   60.2   47.2   33.1   11.3   18.8   18.2    19.7  412.7
RuN OATE: 05/21/91



28
B. Missions
Number of       Speciatization   Perfor_nee         Types of
Supevisfon   Month/Year        Pers   '         Represented '   Rating Status 1' Probtem  '
1            5/88             2             AG, PO                 2            AC,P,F,R
11           2/84             4             AG(Z),EA,EC            2            D, AC, P
III          9/84             7             AG(2),PA,PO            2            0,AC,C,MP,P
FS(2), SA
IV           5/85             8             IE,AG(2),EA            3            D,AC,C,MP,P
FS(3) ,SA
V             11/85           a             AG(2),CA,EA,           4            FMP,DI
IE,SA,FS(2)
VI            5/86            13            AG(3),FA,PO,           4            F,MP,DI
PA, IE(2),EA(2),
SA,FS(2)
VIl           12/86           6             IE(2),AG(2),           3            F,MP,DI
EA,SA
Vill          5/87            6             IE(2),PO,              3            MP,DI
FS(2),EA
ix           2/88             Not           Not AvailabLe          3            MP, DI
AvaiLable
X             7/88            4             IE,PO,EA(2)            2            MP,DI
Xi            12/88           5             IE,PO,FS,EA(2)         2            MP
Xii           7/89            6             IE(2),PO,FS,           2            MP
EA(2)
XiII          12/89           3             IE,PO,FS               2            MP
XIV           8/90            4             IE(2),PO,FS            1            -
Includes ODA and ADAB persael.t
AnG   Agricutturfst; EA = Engineering Advisor; EC - Ecmist;
PA m Procurement Advisor; FS = First Secretary; PO   Progrm Officer;
SA = Shipmmnt Advisor; IE = Irrigation Engineer;
CA a Cooperative Advisor; FA = Financial nalyst.
Y'    1 a Probtem free or Minor prablem;
2 I Noderate problem; 3 - Najor probtem;
4 = Major problem net being addressed adequatety.
§'    C * Cqltrance with Loan Conditions; P = Procurement;
AC a Anticipated Couletfon; D * Disbursemnts;
DI a DevetI  nt Iluact; F a Finance;
NP * Management Perfonmnce; R a Reporting.



29
8.   CroDping Patterns and Yields
_   Cropping Pattern (000 acres)         Yield (md/acre)
Pre-Project  SAR Target  Actual         SAR Target Actual
B. Aus                  166.4         -                         -          -
T. Aus                  -             64         76             31         36
T. Aman (LIV)            96           64         63.2           20        20
T. Aman (HYV)           160           192        128.8          30         32
Boro (HYV)              -             144        237.5          40        47
Wheat                   -             176        2.5            30         33
Oilseeds                25.6          -          6.3            -          -
Total CropRed Area    448             640        464.8
Net Cultivated Area    320            320        240
CrotDing Intensity      140%          200%       194%



30
9. Financial Analysis (Model DTW)
Year        We-ter Charges    Loan Repayment       Operating        Net Benefit
Cost
-----------------------(in Taka)------------------------------
1            58,500             64,785            33,448             -39,733
2            76,500             40,380            43,739              -7,619
3            90,000             37,437            51,458               1,105
4            90,000              34,557            51,458             3,985
5            90,000             31,677            51,458              6,865
6            90,000             28,828             51,458             9,714
7            90,000             25,917             51,458             12,625
8            90,000             13,037             51,458             25,505
9            90,000             20,157             51,458             18,385
10            90,000                               51,458             38,542
11            90,000                               51,458             38,542
12            90,000                               51,458             38,542
13            90,000                               51,458             38,542
14            90,000                               51,458             38,542
15            90,000                               51,458             38,542
16            90,000                               51,458             38,542
17            90,000                               51,458             38,542
18            90,000                               51,458             38,542
19            90,000                               51,458             38,542
20            90,000                               51,458             38,542
FRR          24.47%
NPV (Tk.)   38,295
Assumptions:
(1) Benefits based on KSS records.
(2) Water charge/acre is Tk. 1,500.
(3) Command area 60 acre to be achieved
from the third year (first year 65%,
second year 85%).



31
10.  Ecrminc Analy_fs  (Tk '000)
Invwstint  A    Project        Fam
RIplac_mt       Operating    Prodctinm  Irrigation    Vorkl,u        Total        Total         met
Yew       Costs         Costs         Costs         Costs       Capital     Costs        enef its    lefits
1         17,168        39,110                                              56,278                    -56,278
2        115,440        60,469          2,375        878         806       17 9:67         6,211     -173,756
3        169,312        67,320        19,072        7,051       5,668      268,422       49,888      -218,534
4        325,600        67,320        47,950       17,726       9,803      468,399      125,429      -342,970
5        171,680        48,560       103,874       38,401      18,983      381,498      271,717      -109,781
6        194,768        55,814       146,880       54,299       14,598     466,360      384,213        -82,147
7        223,184        55,814       191,517       70,801      15,152      556,469      500,976       -55,492
8        415,584        69,113       236,155       87,303      15,152      823,306      617,740       -205,567
9        361,712        71,128       309,349       114,362     24,845      881,396      809,204        -72,193
10       378,192        45,585       384,187       142,028      25,403     975,396      1,004,968       29,571
11        31,200                     464,512       171,723      27,265     G94,700      1,215,082      520,382
12        47,790                     491,954       181,868      9,315      730,927     1,286,867       555,939
13       101,650                     503,877       186,276      4,047      795,850      1,318,055      522,205
14        66,420                     503,877       186,276                  756,573     1,318,055      561,482
15        91,140                     503.877       186,276                 781,293      1,318,055      536,762
16        80,620                     503,877       186,276                  770,773    1,318,055       547,282
17       135,350                     503,877       186,276                 825,503      1,318,055      492,552
18       124,150                     503,877       186,276                 814,303      1,318,055      503,752
19       150,100                     503,877       186,276                  840,253     1,318,055      477,802
20        42,770                     503,877       186,276                  732,923     1,318,055      585,132
21       -349,957                    503,6/7       186,276    -166,989      173,207     1,318,055    1,144,848
ERR               15.143
IPV (12w)       2a2,718
AssuMtions.
(1) WeLl tife 20 years; weLLs with operating Life beyond the project period are valued at scrap value (as per the SAR).
(2) Project operating costs for TA arc based on historic man-months 1989/90 average cost/mm. For ORDB and BADC, operating
costs are taken from project records.
(3) Working capital  is calcuLated  in the same way as the SAR, except over a 3-month, not a 6-month perfod.
(4) Cropping  intensity  of 194X is based on data colLected  for project annual monitoring  survey.
(5) Irrigation  costs are based on a figure of Tk. 817/acre  (economic  cost), derived  from AMS.89.
(6) Farm production  costs arc based on project data and data from Bangladesh  Rice Research  Institute  (BRR?).



IBRD 1618
b."' po~.d by                                                                             BANGLADESH
.    *.    .     Th. eeS' ho, bowP fY: -d by
f, ,c      osf '¢. '.oij.,f                                                          DEEP  TUBEWELL  PROJECT
oo I, racfo ,ejl fod 8a.
G'o,o) Th. d.aoo,,,c,tcbo-                                                                      1
*   d,od If,.dbod,,o ho.. .PROJECI AREA
0 o IoN     do o     -P                                                                    |             | STUDY AREA
pol of Th Woid 86aA G,,,,y
wPy lvdg..-  oIhlogol M.Iltc                                                                               ROADS
/,do,.4o: 0l,00Io00c of                                                                                   RAILWAYS
- ,,,sh bobPdu:t                                                                                          r4THANA BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNOARIS
) INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
' ( I N D I A
T 1            20             40             60             80
KM (IM(C TLRS 
MIt  0             0          20           30         40           60
rflsH I¾ldoIlb?4I                  *=0.
z~ ~~~~        ~~~                        r'anaw l                      REAIO'I
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAN                                                            S,IR4              ShOoorI             2 r-           .01 I,¼y t$
;~~~~~~\ r( /'. I hW                          < <,,^ fihrt 
:41
MflN    D  I   OP/k 4              AA 
"[~II.~, o.0        r~4b~$SHIWIPV        s onag                 )       i o     01    0                                      laws
KAL .r, ,,4J,4>t<;,   0   v   ^>f92tv/,   s/   tR4  z4                              CTJOER 1991
. . :" .. rJ , .; .> og4; a~~~~~t>dzJ, pa7c H51 , .
8 > / /  {  / Z 0   Y              1    v                                           !   Xn v ew\m  * 
o~~~~~~~NLK   IP    .A,......b!2 ...{9dd/[t;  >Sr,_;xh0mt1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN O   KA>P AS IA                                      KU Wad-  2
IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COE cc9



_______                                           IBRD 16189i
BANGLADESH
5,        ma~~Th nap ha, beo,, pr,"od by
The Word Bo,,k's stfdf wdckssoy
(or cona.nc, of he 'acrso                                         DEEP  TUBEWELL  PROJECT
' ond  ,Iodnefor rhe Bo,k
C-.oop The vnmaln
"d vseda,d* th, va,,dees IIo                                                     L PROJECT AREA
o- fIN, ap do -o mo5f.0 f0SUYAE
pT part of Th. Word BooA Grotp                                                          STUDY ARFA
any pd   0,.a, or fhIe I.t1nok,                                                 ROADS
of an,y f"atoqy or anyRIWY
' ndornf or occeploco.                                                    .      RAILWAYS
^sch bonv*r,e.                                                                    THANA BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.ND- -. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
;    S  !       I N    D  I A
kLOMTETFRS 0         20          40         60          80
) N   ,/~  >,                                                              MILES 0        0       20        30      40        60
!ihacurabadu
;Ghal                                  ;Ys.                                                       ,   2t_                         L ,
rRA ~ ~ A
*Kts'S,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K -Al 
--             a                   y')ETAAJ(.I        .
I~~~~~~~~~~~KLM
GNAF4IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hba4
OHALUIKA~~                                            N       IAA
v~~~~'                                                 Sou   ' 4ABf_ u an  *'-'-         /gq<2SS;\r
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aa
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"A
Toga.1      \'a t rfJAs   ; 
S-rn.-
t   SnOur                             0                           To f                       OOB   1991
9           f        A     ! z rtLA,/t44~~~~    ~ ~~APA Setf aSl AIA4' rt\ 
INg  g/g} > > tDIA ] : :5 n ~ X- *_ %\ 4A
v  -  i r   Bt.,S..    fj  5~~~~~~~~~~~4,1X4    /lR_'I    i 9
s s /s- s-   ~4rAVAKAIRN                     a         >    UwaA"          I ac   )' /(;h   
_           % >9                       / z    t        C<  4 °             1    s s    r ro ctln rrvaa ' A            92a
-23pl-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COE 1991



89°                            90,                            BANGLADESH                        92'
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Thickness of Upper Clay and Silt
f  /   /  a    \  U              r   z~~~~~~~~o 6ovh.ti
Range of thickness of
26'                                                                                      upper clay and  silt (ft.):
_i 't~<  ~Xv  (; S  g )  8          [    Less than 3                                Roads
3#< -_<; i           )                  3-15  Railways
rO ^ 0 M  0,t    X   t}                                  4 X  ~~~~~~             ~           ~         ~~~15 - 50  Rvr
7.                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
Di Ko/- o,                                                                                                                international
boundaries
t   E \    L    z                        _  ~~~~~~more than 115
-25,
~~    -   0A TA NOV A MA F 
24'              Mt /  1' 
Q                                                    T~~~~~~~~ I N  D I A
234
3 ATA NOT AVAILABLE
This=mp has beenhprepred b r
The World ank's stff exclus                                                                                    CHITTl
for the convenence of readers
and  is eadesinely  for the
intemal use of The WorId Bank
Group.The denominations used
and  the boundaries shoan                                                                                                                              22-'
on this mapo do nfla implY. on the ; 
part of The WorldEoank Group,    1 
an1urJgeniest an the1        e
staztus ot tsyerritory or any  I
midorsement or acceptanceof
such boundaries.
I N D I A3                                                                                                                                f   _S
0           25           50           75 MILES                                 MYANMAR
-21-                  1                                
O               50             100 KILOMETERS                                               2I
E i   STtl LANKA                                                                                                                                        r
_.                           >90°                                                         91'                             92 ° o



89.                            90'                          BANGLADESH                       92
S                           6DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Geology and Dry Season Water Levels
/'       ,~  .  , ,           ; ,Interstream  Deposits of Silt                                              1-yj Pieistocene Alluviurn mainly
26' ) ? / >    ,#r//O+<or, / >   1                                      Sand and Gravel, usuolly                  Modhurpur &  Barind
,Q/ ,/.  ,,,/                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~slightly higher than surround-  IPlo- Pleistocene Dupitila-
a ' /''   -/ S . /< 7               + 5                             n3 fiood plain                           ] Sandyclay & Pebble Beds
r" < \ > < <  feitatcdgereentpI°ostesdl                           .    ~ Miocerie Sedimentory Rocks
1                  Pr /v/L-1   )  \   7Beach Sand            Water Level Contours (as oi
Piedmont Deposits                         June, 1979   n feet)
' t   >   J  f                 Tl  E lerrace & Meander Depos!ts           Rivers
i(!'  >  '  t   '    rt,  <'.' 'Swamp Deposits, mainly                International Boundaries
Coastal
)t~   ~~~ t                                                                                                 2 ;A   Il    J       
-2Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
2cr                  )\                                                     2 ><    "\$>  /t  -   
4   - 
sr                         {       * r-              ( S/
......\ ...
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    4 '-
1.        ~-                                   .                                        ' '
A~~~~~~ 24'
'Cf
C~~~~~~~~~N 
23r  5"'                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23'_
Th-,,ar,p has bne p,epszf by
The Wor.d 6ankt  stoHff exrlusrely
to~ ihe cornvege, -e of readers    )                         
ro r  d    sruxlu soo'fy  for the * - 
rrrer,rrl use of The Wo,r)d Bank  r                   
Gr-up.The de--rnr'rotio-s used
and the 'rrdr,es shown                                                                                                                           2
on this mop do no, mpfy on the
prrt of The World Pank Group.    -
ony jdo rnent on the Ieo.                        .
status o anf' teritor,y Or, my
subh boundaries
RANGLApESH
i aky >                                                                                                    tff%t 
I N D I A
0           25          50           75 MILES
-2r                                                                                                          2 I'- 
0              50             100 KILOMETERS
SRI LANKA                                          9                               92
_                                                              90-                             91°                            92.                       st
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                          -                   I                              I                        :r -



