Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. PF3368-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 60.5 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$68.
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
July 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a.t.oriz|tion;



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to
a basket of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling
serving as intervention currency. On January 11, 1982,
the exchange rate was set at Tk 38.3720 buying and
Tk 38.4720 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on
exchange rate movements between Sterling and the US dollar,
the Taka/Dollar crossrate is subject to change. In recent
months, this rate has fluctuated between Tk 21-22 per US
dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have
been used:
US$1           -   Tk 19.5
Tk 1           -   US$.0513
Tk 1 million   -   US$51,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I acre (ac)               -   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 metric ton (ton)        -  26.8 md
1 cubic foot per second  -   0.0283 cubic meter per second
(cusec)                             (cusec)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADAB   -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BADC   -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB     -   Bangladesh Bank
DTW    -   Deep Tubewell
FAO/CP -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GOB    -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IMP    -   Irrigation Management Program
IRDP   -   Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS    -   Krishi Samabaya Samity (Village Cooperative Society)
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LLP    -   Low Lift Pump
MTFPP  -   Medium Term Food Production Plan
ODA    -   Overseas Development Administration
PP     -   Project Proforma
SB     -   Sonali Bank
STW    -   Shallow Tubewell
TCCA   -   Thana Central Cooperative Association
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



BANGLADESH
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiaries:  Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) rnoperative
System
Amount:          SDR 60.5 million (US$68.0 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard.
Relending       Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would onlend US$22.9 million
Terms:        through the Thana Central Cooperative Association/Krishi
Samabaya Samity (TCCA/KSS) to cover part of the installation
costs of deep tubewells (DTW).
GOB to Bangladesh Bank (BB): Annual interest rate of 3% for
BB refinancing of Sonali Bank (SB); repayment period of up
to 12 years inclusive of up to 2 years grace; refinancing
up to 100%; BB to bear foreign exchange risk.
BB to SB: Annual interest rate to be not less than 4% for
onlending through TCCA/KSS; installment repayment to coincide
approximately with agreed collections from ultimate borrowers
and refinancing up to 90% of individual loans.
SB to TCCA: Annual interest rate to be not less than 6.5%;
installment repayment to coincide approximately with agreed
collections from ultimate borrowers; and refinancing up to
100% of individual loans.
TCCA to KSS: Annual interest rate to be not less than 10-1/2%;
installment repayment to coincide approximately with agreed
collections from ultimate borrowers; and refinancing up to
100% of individual loans.
KSS to Ultimate Borrowers: Annual interest rate to be not
less than 14%; borrowers' contribution 10% plus obligatory
purchase of KSS shares; repayment periods to be based on the
ultimate borrowers' repayment capacity, but not to exceed
nine years inclusive of grace period of up to one year.
Project         The proposed project would seek to increase foodgrain pro-
.        Description:   duction through increasing the area under irrigation and
strengthening the TCCA/KSS cooperative system. The project
includes: (a) procurement and installation of 4,000 two-cusec
DTW; (b) procurement of 25 rotary drilling rigs and aux4liary
equipment; (c) provision to Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation (BADC) of additional staff, thana office
facilities, vehicles, and monitoring and testing equipment;
(d) technical assistance for BADC, staff training and studies,
monitoring and evaluation; (e) provision to IRDP of technical
assistance, additional staff, thana facilities, housing,
vehicles, and staff training; (f) provision of medium term
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-i i-
credit to cover part of the installation costs of UTW; and
(g) provision of diesel fuel for IDA financed minor irrigation
facilities.
Risks:           The project faces no major risks.  A possible risk would be
the under-utilization of tubewells but the expansion of the
Irrigation Management Program (IMP) is expected to reduce
this risk. Another possible risk would be insufficient
demand in the project area. The project provides for a
mid-term review of demand and for possible expansion of the
project area.
Estimated
Costs:                                         Local      Forin        Total
…US$ million   -
Procurement of DTW               2.82       44.66       47.48
Installation of DTW             29.07        9.64       38.71
Drilling Rigs & Anxilliary
Equipment                      1.90        7.58        9.48
BADC Capital & Incremental
Operating Costs                1.18        0.46        1.64
IRDP Capital & Incremental
Operating Costs                2.62        1.28        3.90
Consultancy Services,
Training & Studies             0.51        3.54        4.05
Project Evaluation               0.21        0.10        0.31
Diesel Fuel                       -         10.00       10.00
Sub-total               38.31      77.26      115.57
Physical Contingencies            2.30       4.11        6.41
Price Contingencies               9.28      10.67       19.95
Total Estimated Project
Costs /a                      49.89       92.04      141.93
/a   Including $9.5 million in taxes and duties.
Financing
Plan:                                         Local      Foreign     Total
US$ Million
IDA                            16.10       51.90       68.00
ADAB                             -          9.00        9.00
ODA                              -         31.14       31.14
GOB                            28.40         -         28.40
Sonali                          2.54         -          2.54
KSS/Borrowers                   2.85       92.04        2.85
TOTAL                      49.89       92.04     141.93
Estimated
Disbursement:                     FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual              15.6    27.0    15.6      8.0      1.8
Cumulative          15.6    42.6    58.2    66.2    68.0



-iii-
Economic Rate
of Return:    30%
Appraisal       Bangladesh:  Deep Tubewells Project II,
Report:       Report No. 3835-BD, dated June 30, 1983.



I                                                                                                                                              



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 60.5 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$68.0 MILLION)
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 60.5 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$68.0 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Deep Tubewells Project; SDR 20.4 million (the equivalent of
US$22.9 million) would be onlent to IRDP for medium term credit to cover part
of the installation costs of the DTW.  Parallel co-financing will be provided
by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB; A$9.0 million [US$9.0
million equivalent]) and the Overseas Development Administration (ODA; L17.35
million [US$31.1 million equivalent]). The contribution of both
co-financiers will be provided to the Government of Bangladesh in the form of
grants.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3,
1982) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties.  In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficul-
ties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Rural Electrification Project
(Repott No. P-3337-BD), dated May 26, 1982.



- 2 -
rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking
place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain
supplies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade
witnessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures
to attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation during the second half of the past decade
was followed by continued improvements in production in FY81. Favorable
weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs helped to increase
rice production by 9% to a record level of 13.7 million tons and wheat
production by 33% to 1.1 million tons. As output in industrial and services
sectors also increased substantially over their FY80 levels, GDP at market
prices increased by about 7% in real terms. Notwithstanding these improve-
ments in production, Bangladesh experienced growing financial difficulties
during FY81. Sharply higher petroleum prices, declining export prices for
jute goods and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities below the Govern-
ment's expectations affected the balance of payments. The shortfall in aid
receipts, an unanticipated shortfall in debt service payments from public
enterprises, and substantial expenditures on food procurements which were
necessary in order to maintain farmgate prices in a record crop year also
affected the budget; and a budget deficit of Tk 5 billion, equivalent to
about 2 1/2% of GNP at market prices, emerged in FY81. As a result, credit
ceilings for June 1981 established in the context of the EFF arrangement with
the IMF were exceeded by a substantial margin and the EFF arrangement was
suspended.
The Balance of Payments
6.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid; export earnings are
currently less than 30% of the import bill. A sharp decline in export prices
of raw jute and jute goods (which account for two-thirds of total export
earnings) and of major non-traditional exports, notably leather and fish
products, led to a 2% decline in export earnings in FY81, although the volume
of exports increased by 10%. Imports, on the other hand, increased by 6% in
value terms as a result of increased prices of crude petroleum and petroleum
products and of other imports. Bangladesh's terms of trade deteriorated by
22% in FY81 mainly as a result of higher import prices and the sharp decline
in export prices noted earlier.



7.      The current accounc deficit--US$1.43 billion in FY81--has been con-
siderably smaller than the trade deficit, due mainly to the rapid growth of
workers' rerittances from the Middle East; these receipts are now the second
most import4.1t source of foreign exchange earnings. The payments gap was
largely covered by aid disbursements estimated at US$1.15 billion, close to
half of merchandise imports. Although project aid disbursements increased
substantially, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity
as well as a build up in the project pipeline, there was, as noted earlier, a
crucial shortfall in commodity aid availabilities and new commitments.
Bangladesh also made considerable use of IMF resources, including initial
drawings on a SDR 800 million EFF arrangement which became effective in
December 1980 and which was subsequently suspended.
8.      The balance of payments outlook for FY82 remains difficult.  Export
earnings are expected to decline sharply, due to depressed prices for jute,
and terms of trade to decline further by 15%. Aid inflows are expected to be
only about 5% more in nominal terms than in FY81. Given the tight foreign
exchange position, imports will have to be reduced below FY81 levels in real
terms with consequent detrimental effects on production, especially in the
manufacturing sector. Gross reserves may have to be rundown by about US$100
million by the end of FY82 to around US$150 million, the equivalent of three
weeks imports; and in addition, net short-term borrowing of about US$170
million have been increased to bridge the external financing gap for FY82.
9.      Debt service payments on medium and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are nursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of the Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Public Finance
10.     Government finances have deteriorated over the past two years.  In
FY81 partly as a result of expenditures for investments in foodgrain stocks,
and lower than expected budgetary contributions by the major public sector
corporations, resource availability for development expenditures were
severely constrained. Faced with these difficulties, although the Government
cut back the development budget by about 13%, the deficit for FY81 substan-
tially exceeded revised forecasts (see above). The budgetary situation has
remained tight in FY82 as the severe balance of payments situation has had a
substantial impact on tax revenues. The tax/GDP ratio has fallen from 90% in



4
.Y8I to 8.47 in FY82   Tn order< to .nwX#-.tain the buudget deficit to Waldgeable
proportions, the Governmnett reduced thre developmetit budge-t by 10% below the
budgeted level.  ti the 7Y93 budget the Govenmentrecently litroduced a
substantial package of new tax meastit'u.6s amoutiting to 0.5% of GDP. Neverthe-
less the  impact of the import constrairt  on the Government budgetary position
will cottnue into FY83> and the levelc of development expenditures for FY83
has had to be restrained at the same nomisinal level a  in FY821e
13.     The Governnent has shown a growing awareness of the need to improve
the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utilities and
to reduce major subsidies.  In recent years, GOB has ralsed foodgrain ration
prices and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices of public
sector enterprises.  In sotne cases, these price adjustments only kept pace
with inflat ion, but in others--notably fertilizer and foodgrains--they served
to reduice the unit sibsidy in real termns. Petroleum product prices have been
raised by roughiv 200% since November 1979.
12.     Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials conti nued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole.  Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation-which had spurlted from a rate of 6.57 in FY79 to 14.9%
in FY80--declined substantially in FY8I to only about 6%. However, as a
result of the rapid credit expansion during FY81 and of the disappointing
foodgrain crops during the first hal f of iY82, inflation again accelerated
sharply to an estimated annual rate of about 18% during the first eight
months of the year0 The imposition of tight credit controls early in FY82,
improved foodgrain availability from sales of public stocks and from new
crops and the overall downturn in economic activity and in consumer incomes
and demand then combined to arrest the rise in prices diring the final months
of FY82.  The outlook for FY83 is still somewhat uncertain.  Foodgrain prices
are expected to remain relatively stable, but higher import prices and sub-
stantial upward adjustments in the prices of commodities and services sup-
pl'ed by public sector agencies will exert upward pressure on the general
price level in the economy in FY83. Overall inflation during FY83 is
expected to be on the order of i2-15%3 with prices of imported and industrial
goods rising significaitly faster than those of agricultural products.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
13.     The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase
to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with
a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to unity by 1990; (iii)
progress towards mass literacy through free universal primary education; and
(iv) priority -Co energy development, particularly through accelerated
exploitation of know n reserves of natural gas.



14.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. While this target is feasible, its
achievement will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient resour-
ces to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to
play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of
foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and
training, and appropriate producer incentives.
15.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
16.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The planners recognize that it will take longer than five years,
but they have set themselves the ambitious target of introducing universal
primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school age by
1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal mass
education scheme for those already past primary school age. IDA is assisting
GOB in preparing a medium-term plan for the education sector.
17.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and
considerable discipline will be needed in identifying core programs and
projects and protecting them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a



- 6 -
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation. 1/
18.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations have concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$147.11 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.90 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1982, 58 new credits have been approved, totalling US$1,804.67
million; of these, US$765 million have been for import credits (ten imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and three investments (for a shipbuilding com-
pany, an investment promotion company and a leather factory) have been
approved.
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(19 of the 46 new projects approved as of March 31, 1982, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer
transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage
facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being
placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors which
facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks constrainiing
the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is
1/   A review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the Bank's
1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 1981.



-7-
assisting in rural electrification and elimination of shortages of generation
capacity and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to
utilization of existing industrial capacity.
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education. In addition, the proposed project would help improve the
country's business management capability.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange cost and a portion of local currency expenditures also in certain
priority areas such as energy, education, agriculture and rural development,
including small-scale and cottage industries.
25.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, energy
development, industrial investment strategy, and increased domestic resource
mobilization and have been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed
review of the Government's Second Five-Year Plan.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.     Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55% of
GDP, 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the country's
exports. About 74% of the agricultural GDP (in FY81) is derived from crops
and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (8%) and livestock (12%).
Bangladesh has about 22.5 M ac under cultivation at a cropping intensity
averaging 140% in recent years. Rice, by far the most important crop,
accounts for about 78% of the cropped area; jute, the principal export, for
6%; and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane
and vegetables for the remainder. Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is
among the lowest in the world; paddy yields average only about 0.5 tons per
ac.
27.     There is high potential for increasing agricultural production in
Bangladesh because of fertile soils and abundant and as yet hardly exploited
groundwater resources. However, there are also serious constraints to
agricultural development such as the heavy pressure of population on land,
scarcity of cultivable land, limited potential of part of the cultivated
land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and deficient tran-
sportation for moving farm inputs and produce. Given the constraints
inhibiting a more rapid growth of the agricultural sector, any effective
policy to raise significantly the level of production and assure long-term
growth must provide for a more timely and adequate supply of modern farm
inputs and an effective input/output pricing policy to provide suitable
incentives to farmers. The Government recognizes the need for such policy
measures and, with the assistance of the Bank Group and other external aid
agencies, is taking steps to implement them. Fertilizer distribution has
been partly turned over to the private sector at the wholesale level
throughout the country with BADC operating out of about 90 distribution
points; the wholesale and retail distribution of pesticides is now being
handled entirely by the private sector; and pump repair and maintenance
services have been opened up to the private sector. In addition, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of other significant steps to improve the overall
efficiency of the agricultural sector. Over the past two years subsidies on
fertilizers, irrigation equipment and diesel fuel have been reduced through a
series of price/rental charge increases, thereby freeing scarce resources for
other priority investments. A start has been made in selling irrigation
equipment to private owners rather than renting them out at heavily sub-
sidized rates; the procurement prices for paddy, rice and wheat have been
increased to levels close to international prices for comparable grades of
grain; and the number of grain purchasing centers has been increased substan-
tially in an effort to ensure that farmers obtain prevailing incentive prices
for their crops at harvest time.



-9-
Minor Irrigation
28.     Since increased production must come essentially from land already
under cultivation, the provision of irrigation facilities will be the prin-
cipal means of increasing land use intensity, particularly d-ring the dry
season (November to March). Earlier government policies had emphasized the
development of large-scale gravity irrigation and flood control projects.
However, by the early 1960s, there was a change in emphasis with priority
being given to greater reliance on the use of low lift pumps (LLP) and
tubewells. Tubewells to exploit groundwater offer the best prospect for
quick-yielding high return expansion of irrigated areas where surface water
is not available. Three kinds of tubewells are used in Bangladesh--deep
tubewells (DTW-typically using 20 hp diesel engines, yielding about two
cusecs with a command area of about 80 acres), shallow tubewells
(STW-typically equipped with 5 to 6 hp diesel engines yieldings less than
one cusec with a command area of about 15 acres), and hand tubewells
(HTW-capable of irrigating about 1/2 ac).
29.     DTW are expected to play a major role in the GOB's groundwater
development program. Although DTW are the most expensive of the tubewells
used in Bangladesh and have posed other problems in terms of installation,
group management and under-utilization, there are certain areas where they
are required because of aquifer conditions. About 13,000 DTW have already
been installed. Under the MTFPP, GOB plans to install 18,000 additional DTW
by 1985 and has either secured or is negotiating financing for about 13,000
DTW. The proposed project would be an integral part of GOB's efforts to
promote the minor irrigation sector.
3o.     Responsibility for the procurement and distribution of all minor
irrigation equipment, including servicing, has been handled by the public
sector. The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) in par-
ticular has successfully introduced minor irrigation services in Bangladesh,
but the volume of activities has now become too large for this agency to
handle effectively. Moreover, it has become increasingly evident that public
ownership of equipment and seasonal rental to farmers is unsatisfactory: the
financial burden on the Government, with subsidies on some types of equipment
ranging to over 90% of the cost in recent years, has become exorbitant due to
the rapid growth in the size of these rental programs. In recognition of the
need for greater involvement of the private sector in the financing, owner-
ship and management of minor irrigation facilities, GOB has turned increas-
ingly toward equipment sales. At the same time there has been evidence of
growing private sector interest in supplying irrigation equipment and related
services. Under the Imports Program Credit X (Cr. 1194-BD), the Government
has agreed that existing rental programs for DTW and LLP be run down as
rapidly as possible, with used equipment to be sold at prices discounted to
reflect age and type. In addition, all new minor irrigation equipment



- 10 -
procured by BADC after June 30, 1981, would be sold--unless such sales con-
travene the provisions of specially concluded foreign economic assistance
agreements. Over 90% of the rented DTW in Bangladesh are handled by BADC.
The rental rate has increased from Tk 1,800 to Tk 3,400 in July, 1982 and
during the period in which the rental program is being phased out, BADC would
further increase annual rental rates per unit to the following levels: (a)
by July 1, 1983, to Tk 5,000; (b) by July 1, 1984, to Tk 7,500; and (c) by
July 1, 1985, to Tk 10,000 (Section 3.13(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
These increases would be further adjusted to take account of future price
inflation. Moreover, BADC would raise collection rates for DTW rentals from
its present low level of between 30% and 40% to the following levels: (a)
for FY83, at least 60% and (b) at least 75% for FY84 and thereafter (Section
3.13(d) of the draft Credit Agreement). The Government would make available
medium term credit to farmers or groups of farmers who are presently renting
DTW from BADC for the purchase of DTW (Section 3.14(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
31.     Water Resources Management.  As water resource development in
Bangladesh is still at an early stage it will be many years before regional
hydrological constraints are approached. However, to minimize future
problems it is imperative for GOB to start preparing suitable legislation for
an orderly development of the country's surface and groundwater resources as
soon as possible. In the IDA assisted Shallow Tubewells Project (Cr. 724-BD,
July 1, 1977), the government had agreed to appoint an inter-ministerial
committee to review this issue and the committee was to have submitted
proposals for IDA review by December 31, 1979. Because of coordination
difficulties, this committee was never established. A task force on water
resources management has now been set up to study the need for regulation,
the type of regulation which would be appropriate for Bangladesh and proce-
dures for implementing it. The Government would prepare and furnish to the
Association for review and comment not later than December 31, 1983 proposals
for the regulation of surface and groundwater development (Section 3.11 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
32.     Irrigation Management Program (IMP).  Minor irrigation equipment is
currently irrigating an average of 20-25 acres per installed cusec, conserva-
tively the potential is at least 50 percent greater. The main reasons for
the sub-optimal utilization of equipment are: unreliability of equipment,
technical deficiencies in water distribution and in cropping patterns, and
poor organization and management of user groups. To remedy this problem, IMP
was introduced in the IDA assisted Rural Development Project (Credit 1631-BD)
in 1979-80. BADC, IRDP and Department of Agriculture Extension officers at
the district and thana levels are jointly responsible for implementing the
program which aims at working with the KSS to increase the command area per
unit of irrigation equipment and thus reduce irrigation unit costs. The IMP
includes a) training of key KSS and other village-level officials; b)
preparation of land maps and land registration; c) implementation of a block



- 11 -
water rotation system; d) preparation of an irrigation budget; and e) collec-
tion of water charges. The program has been very successful. During 1979/80
a pilot program which included 20 DTW, increased the area irrigated per DTW
on an average from 52 to 94 acres. Similar success was achieved when the IMP
was gradua-y expanded in 1980/81 and 1981/82. Because of such promising
results, GOB has decided to replicate IMP on a nationwide basis and has
published a comprehensive manual in Bengali for implementing IMP. The
proposed project area would receive priority for implementing this program.
Since training of district and thana level staff of all the concerned agen-
cies is the most important aspect of IMP, the project would provide funds and
facilities for this training. The Government would undertake to implement
the IMP in the project area in accordance with the implementation schedule
for the sale and installation of DTW under the project (Section 3.12 of the
draft Credit Agreement). The expanded IMP would include criteria for site
selection and procedures for loan applications.
The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
33.     BADC was established in 1961, as a semi-autonomous agency under the
Ministry of Agriculture and has become one of the largest organizations in
Bangladesh with a staff of about 26,000. In addition to minor irrigation
equipment, it procures and supplies fertilizer and seed. The Irrigation
Wing, which comprises more than 50% of BADC's total staff, is organized by
type of irrigation equipment which has resulted in duplication of effort and
poor coordination. Under the IDA assisted STW Project (Cr. 724-BD) the
Irrigation Wing in the North West Region was to have been restructured.
However, this restructuring has not been implemented. Restructuring would
require considerable time to carry out since major organizational changes
affecting about 15,000 people would be necessary. The key elements of the
proposed restructuring are: (a) formation of an installation division respon-
sible for all operational fieldwork which would eliminate duplicaion of
effort and provide needed operational flexibility; and (b) establishment of
separate supply and maintenance divisions which would allow BADC management
to focus greater attention on these critical but neglected areas. BADC has
now agreed to restructure its Irrigation Wing on a national level and in
order to prepare and carry out the proposed changes, it has established a
Management Development Unit. Assurances were obtained that BADC would (a)
maintain and operate the Management Development Unit; (b) prepare through
this Unit and furnish to the Association by September 30, 1983 for review.
proposals for reorganizing BADC's Irrigation Wing and (c) by September 30,
1984, complete implementation of these proposals (Section 3.09 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
The TCCA/KSS Cooperative System
34.    The beneficiaries of the proposed project would be members of the
TCCA/KSS cooperative system. The main objectives of the system are to form a



- 12 -
KSS of 40-60 farmers in every village and to federate KSS at the thana level
into a TCCA. KSS are expected to collect thrift deposits, introduce group
management of irrigation equipment and provide regular training, institu-
tional credit, inputs and marketing services. TCCA now cover about
two-thirds of the thanas in the country and twenty percent of all farm
families in thanas covered by TCCA have joined as active members. The DTW II
project is expected to make a major contribution to improving the TCCA/KSS
cooperative sector, as it would strengthen IRDP services and TCCA/KSS would
be its primary beneficiaries in distributing irrigation equipment. In fact,
it is generally recognized that GOB's ambitious development programs for
irrigation and cooperative development are interdependent: the best nucleus
around which to build a strong TCCA/KSS cooperative system is irrigation
development, while equitable and efficient irrigation development can best be
achieved by using the TCCA/KSS system. The achievement of this twin objec-
tive is the primary goal of the Second Deep Tubewells Project.
The Integrated_Rural_Development Program (IRDP)
35.     IRDP is an agency of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Develop-
ment and Cooperatives which was set up nearly a decade ago to initiate the
national replication of the TCCA/KSS. Unfortunately, over the years the
rapid expansion of the TCCA/KSS system has led to a deterioration of its
quality and loss of focus. The objective of creating self-financing,
self-managed farmers' associations has been lost sight of and the TCCA has
become an extension of the IRDP bureaucracy, which itself has tended to
become Dacca bound and administration and control oriented. The Government
has recognized the shortcomings of IRDP and that a number of improvements
will have to be made in its organization, training programs, credit distribu-
tion, and marketing as well as in its general operating environment. The
status of IRDP as a program ended June 30, 1981 and since then, IRDP has been
operating under a temporary extension of its "program" status. The Govern-
ment would take all necessary measures by December 31, 1982 to strengthen or
restructure IRDP in a manner satisfactory to the Government and the Associa-
tion to enable IRDP to carry out its functions under the project (Section
3.16 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Sonali Bank (SB)
36.     Sonali Bank, which is government-owned, is the largest commercial
bank in Bangladesh with the most experience in agricultural lending. It
operates through 917 branches (630 rural) and has established a rural credit
department with a 28 man professional staff at head office. SB has been the
exclusive refinance agency for the TCCA/KSs cooperative system since 1973/74.
SB's total assets increased from Tk 8,965 M to Tk 17,595 M between 1976/77
and 1978/79, while deposits grew from Tk 4,661 M to Tk 8,388 M over the same
period.  In 1978/79 total income was Tk 611 M and net profits amounted to



- 13 -
Tk 96 M. While profitable overall, 55% of branches (mostly newly estab-
lished) showed losses. Sonali has been most successful of the commercial
banks in recovering agricultural loans with 72% collection reported for
1979/80.
The North-West Tubewell Project (Credit 341-BD)
37.     The North-West Tubewell Project was the first minor irrigation
project in Bangladesh financed by IDA. The project originally became effec-
tive in September 1970, but due to the war of independence the project had to
be reappraised and became effective in January 1973. The project financed
3,000 new two cusec deep tubewells each designed to irrigate about 60 acres.
Project implementation took considerably longer than anticipated and the
original closing date of December 31, 1976, was extended three times, finally
to June 1982. Project implementation delays were mainly due to problems
Bangladesh had to face after the war of independence and also to delays in
procurement, lack of BADC experience in supervising drilling contractors,
lack of experience and inadequate resources of the drilling contractors, and
delays in commissioning the tubewells. The distribution of benefits also
became a matter of concern during project implementation because it was found
that in certain cases larger farmers dominated the user groups and the siting
of the DTW. The low rental for DTW was also a disincentive to large farmers
to fully maximize the command area. To address these problems, the Irriga-
tion Management Pilot Project was introduced in the project area (see
paragraph 32). All 3,000 wells were finally commissioned and the average
command area exceeded the 60 acres predicted at appraisal and will eventually
average 70 to 80 acres. In designing the proposed second project, only KSS
would be able to purchase DTW and special emphasis would be placed on stream-
lining procurement and installation procedures and to promoting command area
development through expansion of the IMP. Also land holdings in the proposed
project are smaller than under the first project and the DTW would be sold to
KSS at a price considerably higher than the former rental rate (see paragraph
30).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The proposed project, which was requested by GOB and prepared by
FAO/CP, was appraised by a mission that visited Bangladesh in
October/November 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3835-BD dated
June 30, 1982) is being distributed separately. Supplementary Project data
are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held
in Washington, D.C. in June 1982; the Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr.
A.N.M. Eusuf, Chairman, BADC.



- 14 -
Pro~jec-t._Objectives. and,! ecription
39.     The project primarily aims at increasing foodgrain production in the
project area through (a) increasing the irrigated area under DTW from 345,000
acres in 1980-81 to about 665,000 acres in 1985-86, (b) strengthening of the
TCCA/KSS cooperative system, and (c) enguring that farmers have access to
essential production inputs through the TCCA/KSS system.
40.     The project area comprises 35 thanas, including 10 thanas of the
Mymensingh, 11 thanas of the Kishoreganj and 14 thanas of the Dacca dis-
tricts. However, should the demand for DTW in the project area be insuffi-
cient, expansion into adjacent regions would be considered.  Farm holdings
average about 3.5 acres in the northern part of the project area and 2.5
acres in the southern part; the average plot within a DTW command area would
range from 0.75 to 1.5 acres. TCCA have been established in all 35 thanas in
the project area. Total membership of KSS is currently about 128,270 or 13%
of total farm families, By the end of the project it is expected that about
8,850 KSS with a membership of about 400,000 would be established. Only
those TCCA which have met agreed performance criteria would be eligible to
purchase DTW; at present, about 30% of the TCCA have met these requirements.
41.     The project would include:  (a) procurement and installation of 4,000
two-cusec deep tubewells including screens, casing, and pumpsets, and spare
parts for maintaining these wells; (b) procurement of 25 reverse circulation
rotary drilling rigs and auxiliary equipment for these and 45 existing drill-
ing rigs; (c) strengthening of BADC through the provision of additional
staff, office facilities, vehicles, and monitoring and testing equipment; (d)
technical assistance - 25 man-years of consultancy for (i) BADC staff train-
ing; (ii) IRDP and extension staff training and command area development
(IMP); (iii) pilot studies to solve some technical problems related to well
design and operation, and (iv) regional groundwater studies outside the
project area, particularly in the Sylhet and Comilla districts;
(e) strengthening of the IRDP and TCCA/KSS system through the provision of
incremental staff, thana facilities, vehicles for field offices, and training
of thana staff and KSS members; (f) the provision of medium term credit to
TCCA/KSS for the installation of DTW; (g) provision of consultants to monitor
and evaluate the progress of the project by establishing base line data, and
making mid- and full-term impact assessments; and (h) provision of diesel
fuel to cover fuel requirements in FY83 for all IDA financed minor irrigation
facilities.
Provision and Installation of.Deep-Tubewells
42.     BADC would procure and install through local contractors 4,000 DTW.
Spare parts, sufficient for five years maintenance and repairs would also be
provided. In addition, 200 spare diesel motors and turbine pumps would be
procured for standby. Well components would include locally made steel



-15-
casings and imported screens; 3,600 of the tubewells would be equipped with
line shaft turbine pumps powered by diesel engines and the remainder would be
electrically powered. The project would also finance the construction of
transmission lines and transformers to connect the latter to the national
electricity grid.
Provision of Drilling Rigs
43.     The project would provide for (a) 25 reverse circulation rotary
drilling rigs; (b) 140 tractors and trailers suitable for hauling drill pipe
and casing; (c) 55 well testing and development pumpsets; (d) 37 compressors;
(e) 70 small generators; and (f) 85 welding sets. These items would be
imported by BADC which would then sell them to selected drilling contractors.
Strengthening BADC
44.     To strengthen BADC's capacity to plan, design and supervise the
installation of DTW and to carry out the proposed hydrogeological studies the
project would expand BADC's technical staff, provide consultants and supply
various items of hydrogeological equipment. Salaries, allowances, transport
and office facilities would be financed for the additional BADC staff. BADC
would employ, until completion of the project, three Executive Engineers
necessary for its efficient operation (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Credit
Agreement). A condition of effectiveness would be that the three Executive
Engineers had been appointed (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
45.     The project would provide the services of a consultant team consist-
ing of the following specialists: (a) team leader (groundwater engineer);
(b) irrigation engineer; (c) hydrogeologist; (d) field engineei;
(e) electrical and mechanical engineer; (f) modelling specialist;
(g) hydrologist; (h) cooperative adviser; and (i) irrigation agriculturist.
Overall, technical assistance would require about 300 man/months of foreign
consultant services and have an estimated total cost of about US$3.3 million.
The average man/month cost, including salaries, fees, international travel
and subsistence, is expected to be about US$11,000. The Government would
cause consultants to be employed with qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
46.     The project would provide for groundwater studies in the project area
as well as in Comilla and part of Sylhet districts. These studies would
include exploratory drilling, test tubewell construction, and pump testing.
The project would also provide for a pilot scheme to study improved distribu-
tion of water and test alternative DTW designs. By June 30, 1983, the
Government would prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review,
detailed proposals for the carrying out of the pilot program and employ,



- 16 -
until completion of the pilot program, an Executive Engineer whose qualifica-
tions and terms of reference would be satisfactory to the Association (Sec-
tion 3.10 of the draft Credit Agreement).
,Stent/ninC fCXRPVTroK   Poram
47.     Because of the projected increase in the number of KSS, their member-
ship and increased workload of implementing the IMP for 4000 DTWs by the end
of the project period, the project would provide for incremental staff. IRDP
would appoint and employ until completion of the project one Deputy Director
at its headquarters and one Deputy Director at each of the three districts in
the project area (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). A condi-
tion of credit effectiveness would be that the four Deputy Directors of IRDP
had been appointed (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Credit Agreement). Staff
office facilities are essential for successful project implementation. At
present, only 16 TCCAs have offices. The project would provide financing for
the construction of 19 additional TCCA buildings. Staff accommodation is of
high priority as in most thanas private housing for staff to rent is limited.
The staffing requirements for a full TCCA/KSS program vary between 18 to 26
officers per thana. At present, there are only 74 twin quarters in the
project area. To provide a minimum of four twin quarters per thana, the
project would construct 66 additional twin quarters in the project area.
IRDP staff and project related staff would be given priority in the alloca-
tion of these quarters. In addition, the project would provide one vehicle
for headquarters, 3 vehicles for the 3 districts and 38 motorcycles and 500
bicycles for the thanas.
Diesel. Fuel
48.     To ensure that irrigation facilities fielded under IDA-supported
projects will not be affected by a shortage of diesel fuel during the FY83
irrigation season, the project would provide the foreign exchange needed
(US$10 M) to finance the import requirements for diesel fuel (29,000 tons)
for all minor irrigation equipment expected to operate under IDA financed
irrigation projects during FY83. Uncertainties in diesel availability could
not only adversely affect foodgrain production during the FY83 dry season,
but also have a detrimental impact on farmers' demand for additional equip-
ment being made available, in particular DTW to be provided under this
project.
Rural Credit
49.     The project would provide US$25.4 million of medium term credit to
TCCA/KSS to help finance their contribution for part of the local costs of



- 17 -
installing DTW. 1/ Of the total amount for medium term credit, IDA would
finance 90% and the remainder would be financed by SB. The Government would
relend US$22.9 million to BB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association which would include the following:
(i) the Government would charge BB an annual interest rate of 3% for financ-
ing SB's onlending through TCCA and KSS; (ii) the repayment period would be
up to 12 years inclusive of a maximum grace period of 2 years; and (iii) BB
would bear the foreign exchange risk (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement). BB wiould enter into a Participation Agreement with SB providing
for the on-lending to TCCA and KSS of the funds lent to BB by the Government,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associaton (Section 3.01(d) of
the draft Credit Agreement). 2/ Interest rates charged to KSS members would
be not less than 14%. Although the rate of inflation has recently
accelerated, the rate is expected to decline to about 11-12% in the medium
term resulting in a positive interest rate to final borrowers. However, the
Government would review, in consultation with the Association, the interest
rate structure and, if necessary, adjust the interest rate to the KSS to
ensure that it remains positive in real terms (Section 3.15 of the draft
Credit Agreement). A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit would
be that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Participation Agreement had
been entered into (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
50.     During project implementation, BADC would be responsible for:
(i) procuring well equipment and organizing and supervising DTW drilling,
construction and commissioning; (ii) carrying out groundwater studies and
maintaining and updating the groundwater model; and (iii) providing technical
support to TCCA/KSS in command area development. The Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives through IRDP would be respon-
sible for organizing and supervising the operation and management of TCCA/KSS
and, jointly with BADC and the Department of Agriculture Extension, for
expansion of the IMP in the project area; the Ministry would also be respon-
sible for constructing thana facilities.
51.     At the national level a small Project Coordination Committee would be
set up with representatives from all participating agencies and would be
1/ The purchase price for a DTW includes part of the installation costs.
Because of the large subsidy of the DTW sale price (see paragraph 66),
the price paid by the farmers covers only 55% of installation costs and
does not include the foreign exchange cost of the equipment.
2/ The terms and conditions for onlending are given in the Credit and
Project Summary.



- 18 -
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Section 3.03
of the draft Credit Agreement). The Superintending Engineer, BADC, would be
in charge of the BADC component and the Director of Field Services IRDP,
would be responsible for implementing the IRDP component. The Government
would establish in each district of the project area, a District Coordination
Committee with representatives of the departments or agencies concerned with
implementation of the project, and these committees would meet at least
quarterly (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). The district commit-
tees would be chaired by the Deputy Commissioner of the district. A condi-
tion of effectiveness would be that the Project Coordination Committee and
all the District Coordination Committees had been established (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
52.     All DTW would be installed by local drilling contractors.  BADC would
import the drilling equipment and sell it to the contractors. The Government
would from its own resources make available to the drilling contractors the
medium-term credit necessary for the purchase of drilling rigs to be provided
under the project (Section 3.14(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). Based on
past performance, it is evident that a sufficient pool of experienced
drillers exists. By grouping construction contracts for 40-60 wells per
thana, there would be adequate financial incentive to ensure participation by
contractors.
Preject. Costs
53.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$142 M equivalent,
including US$9.5 M in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$92 M or about 65% of total project costs. Physical contin-
gencies included in the estimate amount to 5.5% of base costs. Estimated
costs to be financed by IDA and GOB are based on price levels prevailing in
October 1981 adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to
expected mid-1982 levels. Physical contingencies amount to 5.5% of base
costs. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have been estimated at
8% per annum for FY83 and 7.5% for FY84-86; local costs have been estimated
on the basis of the following annual domestic inflation rates: 15% in FY83,
13% in FY84, 11% in FY85, and 10% in FY86. Estimated costs to be financed by
ODA and ADAB are based on prevailing mid-1982 price levels in the United
Kingdom and Australia and expected future price levels in these countries.
Finaneing
54.     The proposed IDA credit of US$68 M would finance about 51% of total
project cost net of taxes and duties or 56% of foreign exchange costs and 40%
of local costs. IDA financing would contribute to all project components
except consultancy services and drilling equipment. IDA would help finance:
(a) the procurement of DTW components (diesel engines and spares, turbine
pumps and gear boxes, upper well casings, well screens and reducer and bale



-19-
plugs); (b) medium-term credit to be extended to TCCA/KSS for the purchase
and installation of DTW; (c) the importation of diesel fuel; (d) civil works;
(e) staff salaries and training; and (f) monitoring and evaluation. United
Kingdom grant aid (ODA) of about US$31.1 M would finance the procurement of
DTW components (lower well casings, GRP screens, diesel engines and electric
pump sets) and the foreign exchange costs of consultancy services including
studies and training. Australian grant aid of about US$9 M would finance the
purchase of drilling rigs and auxilliary equipment. Thus, foreign aid would
total US$108 M and cover about 82% of total project costs, net of taxes and
duties. It would finance all foreign exchange expenditures (US$92 M) and
about 40% of local costs (US$40.5 M). A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that all conditions required for the effectiveness of the ODA and
ADAB agreements would have been fulfilled (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement). The balance of project financing would be covered by
local sources; farmers (2.1%), Sonali Bank (1.9%) and GOB (14.3%, excluding
taxes). Most of the local financing would be required to finance the con-
struction and installation costs for the 4,000 DTWs to be installed during
project implementation. A condition of effectiveness would be that Project
Proforma (PP) satisfactory to IDA had been approved by GOB (Section 6.01(f)
of the draft Credit Agreement). 1/
Procurement
55.     Delays in procurement of deep tubewell components and equipment have
created unusually long "lead ins" to the implementation of past and ongoing
projects. To avoid such delays, draft tender documents were prepared and
mutually agreed between IDA and GOB immediately after appraisal. Procurement
of goods and services out of the funds provided by agencies other than IDA
would be subject to terms and conditions agreed upon between GOB and the
concerned lending agencies.
56.     Tenders for Well Drilling and Installation (US$23.21 M).  Contracts
for well construction would not be suitable for ICB because the work would be
too small-scale and dispersed to attract international interest. Drilling
contracts would be let for the number of DTW required in each geographical
area (thanas). Each contractor would be awarded contracts to construct about
40-60 wells (each costing US$5,800). The contracts for well construction
would therefore be let following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA. The tendering would be supervised by BADC which would
"post qualify" the tenderer to determine the number of wells each tenderer
would be qualified to contract for. Ex-post review by IDA would be under-
taken of a 25% sample of these contracts.
1/ An internal GOB document approval of which is necessary for the appoint-
ment of staff and the release of funds.



-20-
57.     Tenders for Deee  Tubewells Comn onents (US$29.8 M) and Vehicles
(US90.29 I).  The DTW components would include 1,150 diesel engines plus
spares; 3,600 turbine pumps and gear boxes; upper well casings, well screens
and reducer and bale plugs for 4,000 DTW.  The DTW components and vehicles
would be purchased under IDA guidelines for ICB procedures. Local manufac-
turers would be allowed a preference of 15X or the applicable duty, whichever
is lowert in accordance with IDA guidelines. Tender documents for DTW com-
ponents exceeding US$100,000 would be submitted for IDA review. Vehicles
(US$0.29 M) would also be purchased under ICB procedures.
58.     Civil Works (US$3.8 M) would not be suitable for ICB because they
would include relatively small simple structures widely distributed
throughout the project area. Construction of thana facilities would be
through contracts with local contractors let under local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Ex-post reviews would be under-
taken of a 25% sample of these contracts. Civil Works (US$0.8 M) for channel
lining would be carried out by force account.
59.     Furniture and office equipment (US$0.19 M) would be procured by local
competitive bidding. Off-the-shelf items costing not less than US$25,000 and
not more than US$200,000 in aggregate would be procured by prudent shopping
through normal commercial channels.
60.     Diesel Fuel (US$10 M).  The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation has sole
responsibility for importing refined petroleum products and would procure
diesel fuel for BADC in accordance with procedures for negotiated contracts
acceptable to IDA.
Disbursements
61.     Disbursement swould be made against:
(a) DTW equipment; vehicles; motorcycles; bicycles and office
equipment (US$26.40 M).
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) locally manufactured; 100% of ex-factory cost;
(iii) locally procured (off-the-shelf); 65% of local expenditures.
(b) Civil works:
(i) construction of office buildings, staff housing and sheds:
90% of local expenditures (US$2.90 M).



-21-
(ii) command area development (channel lining and piping):
90% of local expenditures (US$0.50 M).
(c) Amounts disbursed by BB to refinance medium-term loans
made by SB; 100% of local expenditures (US$17.70 M).
(d) Project Monitoring and Evaluation: 100% of local expenditures
(US$0.20 M).
(e) BADC and IRDP salaries for local project staff; and IMP
training; 60% of local expenditures (US$0.50 M).
(f) Diesel fuel; 100% of foreign expenditures (US$10.0 M).
(g) Unallocated; (US$9.80 M).
Disbursments under (a), (b(i)), and (f) above would be fully documented.
Disbursements under (b(ii)), (d) and (e) would be made under statement of
expenditures, certified by the Superintendent Engineer, BADC. Disbursements
under (c) would be made against Bangladesh Bank certified statements of loans
made by SB and refinanced by BB. BB would verify each application for
refinance by SB which would carry out sample checks. The supporting documen-
tation would not be submitted to IDA but retained at a central location and
made available for inspection by IDA staff on request. Expenditures disbursed
against certified statements of expenditures would be audited annually by
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA.
Accounts and Audit
62.     BADC and IRDP would have their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion and furnish them to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each year (Section 4.01 of the draft Credit Agreement). Auditing
procedures of participating institutions are satisfactory but those for
TCCA/KSS are not up to date. GOB would (a) prepare and furnish to the
Association, by March 31, 1983, an inventory of TCCA and KSS in the project
area, showing the date of the last audit for each and (b) carry out a phased
program to bring to a level satisfactory to the Association by June 30, 1985,
the audit of each and every TCCA and KSS in the project area and quarterly
inform the Association of the progress of the program (Section 3.08 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
63.     The project would provide funds for technical assistance in evaluat-
ing project performance. Project evaluation would involve three reports, a



- 22 -
benchmark survey at the start of the project; a mid-project review and an
evaluation report at the end of the project. The mid-project review would
include an assessment of demand for DTW to determine the need for the project
area to be expanded. The Government would prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than March 31, 1983, for comments by the Association,
detailed plans for the carrying out of project monitoring, and evaluation
(Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement). The Government would employ
consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(b)
of the draft Credit Agreement).
Production and Marketing
64.     The provision of tubewell irrigation water in the project area would
lead to increased cropping intensity and the availability of an assured water
supply. The assured water supply would make larger and more effective
application of high-yielding varieties, fertilizers, and pesticides more
attractive to farmers, while the strengthening of TCCAs and KSS would enable
an increasing number of farmers to obtain credit for purchasing inputs. At
full development incremental annual production of paddy and wheat would be
about 282,000 and 197,000 tons, respectively. It is estimated that between
10 and 20% of the incremental paddy and wheat production would be absorbed in
household consumption and as wages paid in kind. The remaining 80-90% would
enter market channels. The traditional marketing system in the project area
is well developed. No serious demand and marketing problems are anticipated
and increased grain production would easily be absorbed locally or find a
ready market in major cities.
Cost. Recovery
65.     As with other agricultural inputs, all minor irrigation equipment
was until recently heavily subsidized. In the case of DTW, this subsidy was
nearly 100%. To improve resource allocation, GOB has adopted a policy to
reduce such subsidies and sell minor irrigation equipment to farmers at full
cost in the future. However, the very high cost of DTW (around Tk 400,000)
would make the implementation of such a policy too great a burden on farmers
who have no alternative to DTWs for their water requirements. Hence, a joint
GOB/IDA review of the minor irrigation sector recommended that DTWs should be
sold at a price which would equate the cost of irrigation water from DTW with
that from STW, thus putting STW and DTW users on an equal footing. Although
this pricing recommendation has been accepted by GOB, actual selling prices
for DTWs have so far been below the STW equivalent price. The official DTW
selling price has been increased from Tk 70,000 to Tk 85,000 in July, 1982;
the present STW equivalent price for DTW is estimated at about Tk 140,000.
66.     The KSS group's cash flow situation with the project would be ade-
quate. to finance a DTW at its estimated STW equivalent price. However, this



- 23 -
would represent a sharp increase in price which could affect demand and, from
a social and political point of view, would be difficult to introduce in one
stage. It is, therefore, proposed that the full STW equivalent price be
reached in 1986/87. This would mean that farmers' contribution to the
financing of DTWs would increase from about 21% of total cost in 1982/83 to
35% in 1986/87. The Goverment would at least annually review with the
Association and adjust the unit price for the sale of DTW with a view to
progressively reducing the subsidy.  The Government, taking into account the
results of the reviews, would ensure that the DTW selling price per unit
would be set at the following levels or adjusted as necessary to such higher
level as would take into account the annual inflation rate: (a) by July 1,
1983 at Tk 100,000; (b) by July 1, 1984 at Tk 110,000; (c) by July 1, 1985 at
Tk 120,000 and (d) by July 1, 1986 at Tk 140,000 (Section 3.13(a) of the
draft Credit Agreement). All spare parts for DTW rented by BADC or sold
would be sold at a price which covers full cost inclusive of duties and taxes
(Section 3.13(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). All operation and main-
tenance costs would be borne by DTW users from the outset. The application
of the STW price equivalent policy would be a major improvement compared with
practices in the past.
Project Benefits.and Economic Rate.of, Return
67.     Strengthening and expanding the TCCA/KSS operations in the project
area would make it possible for small farmers to benefit from production
activities to which individually they could not aspire. The installation of
a DTW would not only increase farmers' income, but also act as a catalyst for
smallholders to organize themselves into cooperatives. Assuming that member-
ship in DTW irrigation groups would vary between 60 and 90 families, about
300,000 farm families would directly benefit from the project. The profile
of project beneficiaries would to a large extent reflect prevailing land
ownership patterns in the project area. It is estimated that at present
about 30% of project's beneficiaries would live at the poverty line. The
small farmer who receives irrigation through the project would increase his
annual income by anywhere from Tk 1,200 to Tk 2,050 per acre irrigated,
representing an increase of between 25% and 50%. Much of this increased
income would derive from more productively employing farm family members.
68.     Increases in employment opportunities due to the project would be
substantial. The more intensive land use under the project would create
additional labor requirements of about 27 million man-days for farming opera-
tions at full development. Most of the additional employment opportunities
would benefit under-employed farm family members, in particular during the
dry season when agricultural employment is low. About 40% of the additional
farm labor requirements would be for hired labor, mostly landless laborers
who would thus also benefit from the project.



- 24 -
69.     The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at about
30%. Sensitivity tests indicate that the project is sensitive to changes in
command area, yields and output prices. However, even for a combination of
possible adverse circumstances, the project maintains an economic rate of
return above the opportunity cost of capital.
P-rejeet,;Risks
70.     The project faces no major risks.  A possible risk would be the
under-utilization of tubewells but the expansion of the IMP is expected to
minimize this risk.  Another possible risk would be insufficient demand in
the project area. This risk is minimized through a mid-term review of demand
and the possible expansion of the project area. Also, the project could face
risks due to institutional weaknesses and lack of coordination among the
various government institutions involved in project implementation. However,
provisions made under the project to: (a) strengthen IRDP and BADC services,
(b) implement strict gite selection criteria for DTW installation,
(c) provide adequate medium-term credit for TCCA/KSS, (d) recruit a consult-
ant team, and (e) regularly monitor project performance should reduce these
organizational and institutional risks.
PAR,T, V_*. LEGAL, INSTRUNENTS. AND, AUXTHOR1ITY
71.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness are: (a) appoint-
ment of three BADC Executive Engineers (paragraph 44); (b) appointment of
four IRDP Deputy Directors (paragraph 47); (c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and Participation Agreement be entered into (paragraph 49); (d) the Project
Coordination Committee and all District Coordination Committees be estab-
lished (paragraph 51); (e) fulfillment of all conditions for effectiveness of
ODA and ADAB Agreements (paragraph 54); and (f) approval of the project
proforma (paragraph 54).
73.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PAR.T VI--RECOMMENDATION
74.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Washington, D.C.                                Munir P. Benjenk
July 22, 1982



- 26 -                                             Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                  MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3               L960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0         70.0      130.0               261.4                     890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..         24.9      39.7                448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0        68117.0   88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1             7.6       11.0                17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        371.5       473.0      600.7                158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9          703.0     889.0                355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3         46.3      42.8                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         51.0      54.6                 59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          2.7       2.6                  3.5                      3.3
POPbLATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9          2.4       2.6                  2.0                      2.3
URBAN                                3.6          6.3       6.5                  3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       53.5         49.2      45.3                 29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.1         22.7      18.2                 11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6          3.4       2.9                  2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       8.9/c              19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           106.0       101.0       97.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     87.3        84.7         ..                97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.9        42.7         ..                56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.1          8.7        ..                20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       24.8         23.0      20.0                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.3           41.6      46.3                 57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            159.0        150.3     136.1                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         45.0      53.0/d              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                 ..         13.0      15.0/i               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                 ..         47.0      55.01o              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          6.0       5.Ole              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.0/i;             72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c             3297.8                    8540.4
POPLLATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      76808.3   40489.7/c            4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..      7021.5/.   4499.3/c            1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                                 ..        818.5/j   627.4/c             301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   23362.4/c            5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..                   ..                     27.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF IIOUSUIROLD
TOTAL                                 ..          5.9/h     5.8
URBAN                                 ..         6.17      6.1
RURAL                                 *           5. 9/h    5.8
AVERAGE NURMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        3.5
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLX5!§WFESOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-_
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOMRE                 MIDLE INCOM?
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRI-MARY:    TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      65.0                 97.4                      96.2
MALE                  66.0         68.0       79.0               101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                26.0         34.0      49.0                 87.8                      92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      25.0                 53.0                     37.6
MALE                  14.0         29.0       38.0                63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0            0.8        0.7                 1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         45.1      43.8                 37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                             ,.         26.4      24.9                 20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6         23.0/h    26.0/c               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ,,          0.4       0.4                  1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          6.0       8.2                 35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER TFOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.5                  3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        4.7                16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                 3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19251.6        23611.0   31477.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.5                 29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         86.0      74.0                 70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          3.0      11.0                 15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7       35.6                40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  58.7         55.9      56.9                 51.8                      50.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11.9      12.9                 23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HO'JSEHOLDS   18.3/i          ..      14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.571         44.1/    42.2..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97i          8.7/      6.97'
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.97i         19.s7     18.27..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0/c              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     111.0/'             111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  ..                    178.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      86.0/c               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0/c               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic ceans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
ib   Unless otherwiae notec, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /  1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/ 1967; /k 1974.
May 1982



Annex I
- 28 -
DEF1NITI05S CF SOCIAL :NOICAToHs
40..-  A"-casa   ohs i-ota  r  dten tfot .our... generaly lodged riha mee  oa                      -diein   o   r--be.I    oldao    .        Iteh-  1 ty  ay not be I.Cta-
Onelst.aetll I  ddcieagr   fmsioe    s1a.tetl.edIttcrrncransu    Ifrne   etenotre .,.T.d.    ,_h
-lec reetocP. are (I) the iee   --oerr  5teep of the sujet  oaty and  2) a co-ntY gro-P wii, -o-ehat higher a                    Seag  loca-  th- nba  --ntygr
Atct eajatconty(tnpt fat   'igh lIn--    Oil f,,Porgr   st-P Crete  Middle incom   North Afti-a00  MiddLe fee    be  hoe    c eattrnr
edboc~trl  r lile)   I  herfeeo.gou   ec   heaerg.  t  pplaIn  Cigtedaitmti   ea.fo   ac   ndcto   nd_ots aytie
gelrity at th      atie   ma  rop hAd d.te for thet iniao                Si_r   h   asaeo   onre   mn   a I             a"caor  depend.C, ondteoebnl               fdt
andbenh  JcIa.,   anbng .eth  exentleed Sc. _ua            f. useg  of one indiCabeI   hnae    bs   vrg.aeaib   eblhceahgteals
odid cahonen        ` t9.nn. thnr-baniaa.,r Hoen ..a _a1tte .  ra.  an Irne    Popla la   lca
Icia  - Trot  orfe eon. cderlang1bnd  -re  and Labe-g  1aes   979 dana.                 Hra.on   aol   iiCo i orei   -b-en ic-d               br  tbebilto
far  rop. astac.,  eret and kLChtat   gard-g  or to IL. fali1it  1H79 date.               hatilibtt.ioretre          oPit       ...ar  eaaIleiteot  pemanntl  stle
ISP Phi CAIPTA, ILhS$    GNIP per coiaebmte   ncre ....e p..c....a..dly cr   r  notlolhy.ded    ue   opnb.tose.iouehat
c...idby  ameccn.rere  method ac Idoeld leak  ria-  11978480 boaef.9h.adrdclcntr   o   amrn   h-Ptt1ed  by e  itysCLag11 hbut by 
19C"or  1980t atat                                                                              meOhtal eeelerern.C  tar..  mIwfe   t.)  bhc   ie   tpe  eter
denitee  ra prious a lien.d  retl  of medial fanlItie  o   rse
FOihI'!  19SlTh2TIO Phi .127Th -Actual cteceptir of aorial enery  anal  haI ycrpaee ocra   Onepirls inclue  WHit pircipelgeoertl  oepitay
Idol Paclataca.  10-fear  nloaaaoo) - ha a  Jul  1; 1980, 1975                                                    .d 9.0.Cdii 19
catscaacnit   90,170  alIH      ydor.                                                the itroogroidh-for  jreidenic-l pady-en..
ycraoin yocehboe                                                                       Oeree o-erof ereseI --oo-hda-;atiar.androrl -re1979at
total cpclahbo   ayageaaseu  at  neOn   ertails  ama feglliry   tt...   veiltog. ceepeubreby.2eelIiae saclde agd-. rme...              atroattee an
~P PU rnlacn1  ITAL 5paranantr S  fo etlt   a.   oieo   heieeeaae                                 nCcah;Pled paLine.      b  I-bbI       .
ouooOr) c:blln  can  ago1 hrs ibr.  -bewle esaIntg de.ilig       ; inoIoe.  re.ad moe'P'                              iosreenbgy
err imoaccrd ng c  Ito~   et._a-   pacs femi - p-lit.e     perfonmecce.i   11.     b.I.  -I. V
1r9frtif  60mn. for0 pr)cro   piepoets..                                           Adicehh fooIdeo  taceW d i
Prcoercnrcalnlo19 inr   opbnogte.Isa   rotAucePier   coo      oal   e. u   eec-ccert.Cml  ndIel
roe rylacaenn  lndl o  ugh   et rPtoa tg    ee    O.si r     eoaratbdn  ynare baCdjse   frdp_rrtlngh f_rIerocarot.o
ci  nme  calaet  tsef  nac ly   Th  sanlnar  ppabnig  als  ea.ccartiaeeir  asinrea  edcslonerr111nisoyrucad1001eren
stcatao   etal   fan   nlcte   heetretn    fth   ooato                                    iresm   Fr.ae  ec   i  rn  teoftolbshoia.
the  ear  000.aud  it h tasofdci    ffetliyr.e. epae                                 Peoo dt poch -total  moeadlmis-CtndeaOe;eo ds
hor  1r ornnoubcarIerecet-Th  rs  ee e-anoespMpuTih.                                        prerdeegetrob.coe tir              .. orIaceI raIr..e.at10.tr  oI
o be   ill htea.ha.     ohe..y  F-L0ton S                                                                      i  -er   foe;crepnanecasear   nea1
Ic. atcr. lehoihtPa                                                                     reclyll_ugpIed..                 In       P"i.Iy
Err  ;.0.-Ctya-oea.  -cpc#-A  ae          h sooaea lobem  i_er (10   hectae   i,cfE CAocONide  eobencecn   fucnsv       oaInll.bo
Per so f:11IS. a  lnd frcat ra laud -Cj Conatdemee,  oragiaioillrOetld ort   e attaseeoseonr                                               Oitie.
onLy _ 190.:00:nh179daa.. ....nhr  en    prmr.atO.tred  -L                                                                                   Ttl  tdet  erlldi
loton   100.190,ted 198  dast.-autltemrrna(se                                                                             - ).iyrft.adul, feus t  rheedt  to.d eri1e
year poobaIlon  an 199082.  t98 -70, ad 17-ti         --ag.bId.1df.   itC
pey.lotbote; 1980. 1975. try  1990 data.   ati 3i-rY  -h-Ieblolee.                                                              -c0f~.r
ccua  e;  90-90.ed19  dn.Aedna...                                                                           o gnere  puli  pr hCatdo   ouaie   olde
,,.lyyace;oe.al                                                                                                        ...eyeamaaendn   n10.175   n   90  ercctrteelam    Ilaen.-  .In&
,,W 1:z,11,79 dftI~~~~~~~~~~pullcatlOn1Zy1.1                                         l dnepr sly,  toll reogt,   I seea  .eee.It Iscoede
00  t. teec laded) 9oggergete prodnantt at                                                                                 Litit ltintr11le haaedot  1-diOdI 958f
hpOths,i.. en  cag, 1 n9   tct   Nnscpls-eclad  athited,nst. dfnrsn.o.nn                                            Fmae  sotfoce.imhstAtf   iilIhu  Ione
onatillh k.tand0 i9 t7dpoaig. td..h le ., tohd_etdib tia.  geqere-                                                   -lao   oreisfela.frent.hst   n
nan ioppy o...       prdy.itepl   ffeli   ainde   b,.i.                                         oiityrn,eaeeo ras_ tonl  mel.. te   eul ao  frea
hoieae  fr  llcctttmeretblgied  y  80  prvla  or  lu                          preeeeesof  eel.alean  Palepoolsle odal ae.r.fanieIy
ellroras  f 6  oc   oftotl ponec.  eedayad2   rm    f.dtS          m                 90   90  and 91096ta.Them  se   eato   15 _. prtcIptIn'rr
dorig Tad hone; 19014. 1970-etr197  lena.                                             no the nartol lab-Or farceL
Onrodeito  retelc soolr from elmel ond  oise-Protee  e.plp  o  toolddin
cItd Ice  obmlo  nd  tclae  s g  pe  da;  96195,197  ao  197 dsa.            I90U lHThIffiL
1001.10 ~       ~          jr.                                                        POf TTy   f?IZUP
FIcieN cNoTliriLo ortny   nea      vr oatoro   er  fo                      eenteT.6 loLlettee  _etatm   are                         Chy p0 tat  cmra feaetlrl.
Ind.oot traIynt    ornc-d)-dnuldah   floen   ea   r  year                                       fenmetd. dbelftL P_nrt  lnomIsol100paItela  -oba  sI  cr 
_erof  ..pl  (ntlChho   n  rri    it   atnbl   rn   t   neafodbe
alo   opy  lnunrese    ufaa  aeeoIannrdhssearmosed                                   frmhtgeaIsPvrr  eoeLre_00pecrie   abr  r   o. 
erneean   aetha  tro  prsened   oretoin. ernn..  nd asdtr,  ell) te Stel rlatre pverp  ieom   leel l  or-niirdof asrte pr crin
rgniy ecJotnCtnond fr
lotrati ileroral cooresme of oroalanuonl - lotal. orhen ted, ranal -21:1                                  b
uar Af                                                                                                                                  h..o(otl   non   e    atl   eve   y.er. ipetlr
nureregs  f te t  eaeoIn...  pot=aine   fPr's  dItp=          l  eDlebd
bun  allobda  co  Ilaote. tuh o  elteni  Lraanf.bof b        emoomi
and edete-o  ta   by   O terb.rn    spars  or the ae  fof p   --pi I. tedli-
lot £-na..topbd.                                                                                            -  b..f-        . eu-Oi.
clroqall nd  "Cet a lss ice  ahe   en arveriry  ''.1                                                                           co   ic  eiae n."5ena   epe
P.r  .2LIao  pa1,6oot  ure  -Pptl9lediiedb  u"                     pfreniam                                                                  ....  1.f96t12 .b
Y ooaou .o;naeoOorceo  raiaan                      dfeane  prstau  hare   eelt
ro fn fadPlblChtIbco. 



29                                                          Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita:  US$120 (FY81)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (%)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                 (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                      FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81         FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        11,989                4.0      -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                 6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                    1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                    3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                      11,701               4.4       -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                         2,064               10.9     -10.9       20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                              859               0.8      -11.7        5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                            2,635               8.8      -12.0        3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                              639              26.5      -17.7       -8.4           0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(million US$                                                       (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                  FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                 710.8                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                        165.2                                                40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                      545.6                                                59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                               2,524.0                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                         490.1                                                 3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                             580.0                                                13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                          1,111.5                                                 38.9      37.8      35.1     44.0
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                                 140.6       240.5     183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                       7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                           103.7       123.5     107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                           152.8       194.8     186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                          67.9        63.4      57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                           5.0      5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                       6.5      4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
'apital expenditure                                                      8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                         7.1      2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (1)                                                          4.2        -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                               1.5        -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (X)
= not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
7@ Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                    Projected
FY74       FY75       FY76        FY77       FY78        FY79       FY80       FY81          FY82        FY83
Net exports of goods                                  -551     -1,050        -885       -454        -859       -946    -1,645       -1,813        -1,780     -1,938
Exports of goods                                     374        352         381        411         490        610         727        711           640        732
Imports of goods                                    -925      1,402    -1,266         -865    -1,349       -1,556     -2,372      -2,524       -2,420      -2,670
Net exports of services                                -21          12        -24         -29        -32        -27           3         11           -70       -120
Workers  remittances                                     19         34         62          81        113         143        210         377          400        450
Current account balance                               -553    -1,004         -847       -402        -778       -830    -1,432    -1,425           -1,450     -1,608
Direct private investment                                ..         ..         3. ..                  ..          ..                                 50..
NMT loans (net)                                         276        498        498         238        398        420         581        481           501
Grants . grant-like flows                               174        382        245         265        393        553         591        616           650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                               45         275         52        -20         -38        -19         141        304           199
Change in reserves (- = increase)                       58       -151          53        -81          25       -124         119         24           100
Iteernational reserves (end of period)                 115         266        213        294         269        393         274        250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year            0.98        2.52       2.95       2.62        2.07       1.99        1.30       1.24          0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78        FY79         FY80         FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      173.8        382.3       244.7        264.8       392.6        553.2       590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     287.4       518.9        563.5       268.3        435.3        476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                       201.4       458.4        533.0       244.1        400.8       456.4        601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4       342.8        389.9       144.0        261.9       212.6        272.7       255.2
IDA                                               51.0       112.5        127.8        86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                                 -           3.1         15.3        14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9        83.4
Non-concessional                                    86.0        60.4         30.4         24.1        34.5         20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                           40.6        45.2         16.5         5.6          1.7         3.3         16.8          2.0
IBRD                                               -           -            -           -            -           -            -           -
Other multilateral                                 5.4         0.3          1.1         0.5          0.5         0.1          0.3          0.8
Private                                           40.0        14.9         12.8        18.0         32.3        17.0         12.7         18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8           1,352.6      1,795.9     2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2         3,215.6     3,584.8
Official                                           383.3    1,232.8       1,689.0     1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8    3,462.1
IBRD                                               -          54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9
IDA                                             105.6        255.3       379.8        465.9       554.2        706.7       858.8      1,028.5
Other                                            222.8       922.6     1,254.3      1,419.0     1,826.5      2,046.7     2,155.1      2,378.7
Private                                            109.5       119.8        106.9       111.6        133.6       140.9        146.8        122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                     580.8     1,019.4        947.5     1,015.8      1,335.4     1,659.1      1,716.7      2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                           18.0 '       31.3        87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1        93.7         92.0
Interest                                             7.3        10.1         21.9        28.4         32.1        38.1         43.3        42.0
Payments as % of export earnings                       4.8          8.9        22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6        12.9         ;2.9
Payments as % of GNP                                   0.2          0.2         1.2          0.9         0.8          1.0         0.8          0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (X)                 3.2          2.0         1.7          1.6          1.5         1.4          1.4         1.6
Official                                             2.9         2.0          1.6          1.5         1.3          1.4         1.2          1.5
Private                                              5.1          2.3         7.8          6.4         6.2          6.1         6.9          7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                 26.1         35.5        41.6         40.1        37.7         35.9        33.6         35.9
Official                                            28.3        35.8         42.2        40.8         38.6         36.3        34.2         36.2
Private                                             13.3         15.3        11.3         11.0         9.5         14.8        19.3         18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (X)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                     -            4.0         3.0          2.6         2.1          1.8          1.7         1.5
I8RD disbursements/total gross disbursements           -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                   -            -           1.8          5.6         4.8          4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     21.4         18.8        21.1        22.7         21.6         24.0        26.7         28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements           17.7         21.7        22.7         32.1        20.3         32.0        24.0         32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                    1.3          3.1         2.5          5.3         5.4          4.6         6.0          7.3
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (X)
Maturities due within 5 years                                           13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                           36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (X)
Interest due within first year                                            1.6
n= Dot available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                        -     14.00      0.68
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)             -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -      7.50      1.00
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -     20.00      6.80
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -     62.00      3.53
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -     15.00      4.08
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -     27.00    13.45
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -     22.00      8.34
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00      4.24
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -     16.00      6.44
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -     25.00      3.90
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -     16.00      3.14
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -     21.00    12.25
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -     10.00      3.86
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -      5.00      2.42
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -     21.00    14.17
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -     25.00    19.41
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -      7.00      3.72
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -      6.00      2.25
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -     19.00    14.33
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -     10.00      5.80
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -      6.00      5.20
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -     25.00    21.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II  -         32.00    29.12
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -     28.00    27.60
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -     22.00    11.96
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                        US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -       25.00    23.21
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00      8.89
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00      2.84
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00    21.94
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -           20.00    19.39
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00    28.84
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    16.22
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -        11.00    10.32
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -        25.00      1.74
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    37.25
1065   1981   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -        35.00    34.70
1071   1981   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -        65.00    17.70
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -        85.00    72.20
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    20.20
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -       50.00    49.90
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -        16.00    16.00
1140   1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -        18.00    18.00
1147   1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -        40.00    40.00
1184/b 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    27.00
1194   1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -       100.00   100.00
1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
12057Ub 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -        27.00    27.00
Total                                                54.90  1,982.82   869.80
of which has been repaid                             -         0.40     -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,982.42   869.80
Amount sold                                           0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,982.42
Total undisbursed                                              869.80   869.80
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
__   Not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                             DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65      -      0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2     2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Corporation (BADC), the project lead agency, has been requested to initiate
the preparation of the PCR. It has been agreed that disbursements will con-
tinue through April 30, 1982 against items contracted prior to December 31,
1981.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975;  Effective Date:  September 30, 1975;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original project.
Civil works in the original project area are completed. About 735 low lift
pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000 acres. How-
ever, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to inhibit full
utilization of existing irrigation facilities. They are, however, improving.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with about 60 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates prep-
ared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB has
been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be substantially
reduced. Construction works for the hatchery complex, training hostel and
staff quarters related to the fisheries component are expected to be completed
by April 1982. Fish seed production on a commercial basis has started in 1981
and will reach full capacity in 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved. The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of com-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow full completion of components which were
initially delayed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification for the closure dam
and embankments, the only remaining major works, has been done. The design
for the works produced by the consultants is much more sophisticated than
envisaged at appraisal. Though revised cost estimates are not available
to IDA, it is estimated that the cost overrun on this component could be
substantial.  BWDB has been asked to prepare alternative design proposals.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress; all procurement
has been completed and efforts are being made to speed up the civil works
program to ensure completion before credit closure at June 30, 1982. Although
the extension service is now well structured and better disciplined, the
methodology needs continued improvement. Good extension/research linkages
have been established; the research program now places more emphasis on
off-station work aimed at finding practical solutions to farmer problems.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component may be scaled down.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
been taken up only recently. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The Project is making satisfactory progress. The BARC headquarters
building is complete and fully operational. BARI station developments are
almost complete at Jessore and Janalpur, but Hathazari is behind schedule.
The Research Grant Scheme is operating well and supports 40 research sub-
projects in elpven institutes. An evaluation and monitoring system has been
inaugurated. The foreign training component finances 31 PhD students at 15
universities. All Project funds fully committed.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
After a slow start, construction of civil works in the central
hatchery complex has commenced in January 1982. It is hoped that the imple-
mentation delays can be made up at least partially and that the central
hatchery will go into operation by June 1983. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by Tk 26 million (23%). Such increase will necessi-
tate an additional government input of Tk 18 million. IDA's share of the
increase can be absorbed within the Credit amount because of Taka devaluation
of about 19% since appraisal.



- 37 -             ~~~ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs, the Phase I
sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been placed
for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has begun with about
1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant was appointed and visited the areas
in July 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (formerly Bangladesh Landset
Program) should undertake the five year Remote Sensing Program and a draft
scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained in February will be
processed shortly; aerial photography was recently completed.
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project staff are in place and tendering procedures for raw materials
to fabricate 90,000 tubewells are complete. However, procurement procedures
are being held up by inadequate budgetary allocations. A minimum of six months
lead time is required for procurement and local fabrication, and delays could
affect tubewell availability and sales in the 1982/83 boro season. Price
parity between BADC carry-over stocks and project tubewells is yet to be
established. Planning Commission has been alerted to both of these problems.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit for investments
in minor irrigation and other agricultural development. The privatization of
shallow tubewell sales has not made much progress, primarily due to the price
differential between public sector and private sector sales and the reluctance
of government to issue import licenses to private dealers. Appointment of
consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency, is yet to
be made.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1184  Second Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant has been
mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total project costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing but with an increase in foreign exchange requirement of about
US$12 million.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit is
continuing with improvement in BSB's operations, especially in the areas of
loan accounting and staff training. Areas of operational weakness, partic-
ularly project appraisal and loan collections are receiving close GOB/IDA
supervision.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Tha Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
Implementation of action programs undertaken under this and preceding
import program credits are proceeding satisfactorily, although GOB has yet to
make the full FY81 infusions of equity agreed for public sector units in the
Jute and Textile Sectors. This situation will be monitored by forthcoming
mission to Bangladesh. As of March 31, 1982 the credit has been fully commit-
ted, while disbursements were US$47.2 million. Allowing for processing of pay-
ments in the pipeline, the credit should be fully disbursed within the next few
months.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of March 31, 1982 US$23.26 million had been disbursed. The credit
was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipeline will
continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. Action is also
underway to strengthen BSBs sectoral review capabilities.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982.
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date:  June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is nearing completion. All buildings in the three
new ATIs have been completed and only minor works, for which contracts have
been let, remain. Of the four existing ATIs, construction and renovation
are virtually complete. As a result of student strikes in 1981 no first year
students were enrolled and the institutions are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. Staffing is adequate and most have received in-service
training under the project. The AMTI course has been successful and an
extension of three years is now under consideration. RMB is closely super-
vising the project and GOB have been asked to ensure that all taka funds
necessary for completion of the project by June 30, 1982 will be provided.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is encountering major problems in the areas of manage-
ment and institution building. The Project Implementation Unit is not opera-
ting well, largely as a result of the lack of a full-time Project Director,
and also because the Project Manager is a consultant to the Government
and therefore lacks financial authority. The functions of other PIU staff
are still not clearly defined, and the Chief Technical Adviser of the ILO
technical assistance team has recently resigned.
The National Council for Skill Development and Training has not
functioned well since its inception, having met only once in two years.
The various sub-committees have also only met irregularly. The appointment
of staff for the Secretariat is lagging considerably behind schedule, and
as yet, no site has been acquired for the headquarters building.
The In-Plant and Instructor Training Programs are progressing,
but at a slower than planned rate because of difficulties in financing the
recurrent costs. The Revolving Fund established to facilitate this process
has not been replenished. Tenders have been called for the construction of
the five new Technical Training Centers, but the program is still about 18
months delayed. As a result of the February/March supervision, the Govern-
ment has been advised that quick actions were needed to solve these problems.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), particularly the establishment of the
project implementation infrastructure, staff training, base line evaluation,
materials production and distribution (girls uniforms and textbooks), and
the formation of the Directorate of Primary and Mass Education, Local Educa-
tion Authorities and School Management Committees, have all been substantially
completed. The second year program has begun, but some delays are evident
primarily in the construction program. The Government's decision to concen-
trate on school repair and other minor works during the first year of the
national UPE has delayed the start of construction on the schools to which
IDA funds have been targeted. There is also some evidence that the recurrent
training started during the first year may not, as yet, be achieving all of
its intended objectives. The Government has recognized these issues and
have taken appropriate steps to remedy the situation.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. Progress
in implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project,
in respect of which the original Closing Date was extended initially by one
year, has improved slightly during the last six months, although it is still
slow and therefore unsatisfactory. Although 9 of the 21 project training
and service facilities were fully completed by September 30, 1981 and 4 more
were expected to be handed over by December 31, 1981, the remaining 8 will not
be completed until mid-1982. In the circumstances and at the Government-s
request, the Closing Date has been extended for a second and final period
of nine months to September 30, 1982 to permit full project completion and
disbursement of credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center-s component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government's
revision of its Second Five-Year Plan. These problems combined with the
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the results are
awaited. The Closing Date of the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been
extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
to cover short term protective Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost
of eligible components of the arbitration. Significant failures have appeared
on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and tenders for telecommunication equipment
have been issued. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service
vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants appointed to carry
out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and accounting systems
for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Implementation of the
recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress. At the request of
the Borrower the closing date has been extended to December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted, and continues to result, in increased project cost due to inflation.
The problem appears to result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g.,
the ineptitude of the "Procurement Committee" and standard Government proce-
dures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by mid-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation.  Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved
a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development
program within the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on com-
mercial accounts is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be
prepared from FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is
reasonably good. Covenants under the project are now being complied with.
TTB has recently taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the Fourth Technical Assistance
credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091  Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year, in line
with original schedule.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA-s consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by mid-1982. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. A tariff increase is needed and WASA
has problems in collecting arrears from Government departments; there is also
a land acquisition problem. GOB has been asked to ensure that all of these
matters are quickly resolved.



- 46 -                    ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:            1 year
(b) Project prepared by:                      FAO/CP
(c) First presented to IDA:                   May 1981
(d) Preparation mission:                      July 1981
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:           October 1981
(f) Completion of negotiations:               June 16, 1982
(g) Estimated date of effectiveness:          November 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the appointment of three BADC Executive Engineers and
four IRDP Deputy Directors (paragraphs 44 and 47);
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Participation
Agreement have been entered into (paragraph 49);
(c) the Project Coordination Committee and all District
Coordination Committees have been established
(paragraph 51);
(d) all conditions are fulfilled for the effectiveness
of the ODA and ADAB Agreements (paragraph 54); and
(e) the approval of the project proforma (paragraph 54).



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Other Conditions
(a) Restructuring of BADC's Irrigation Wing (paragraph 33);
(b) Government would review the unit price for the sale of
DTW with a view to reducing the subsidy (paragraph 66).



a



IBRD 16189
,   . )  goO                                                               o910                      BANGLADESH                              FEFRUARY 1982
Thin -tp h. h bect prepared by the
Z--i . )tt    tWhtcttf;',,tkeSnttdS- ds                                      DEEP   TUBEWELL   PROJECT
th-e retina to wh,nh tis attached
1t         mTe d ennt d ntions teed and the
, - :' _   ~botuidternn hr wrt n this reap
- -donotiply, o the part of the                                                                PROJECT AREA
World Rank and its eftitbs, any
@2 ZI S 1 jttdg-entonth. lg.1 Vt-t/sf                                                           STUDY AREA
. '|   ty (--toy or tny -td--trmtn
i--RAILWAYS
or a,nneoptnnrenfonr h bnnndnriee                                                                      ROADS
._  , .  (                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THANA BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
;'    (          ~~~~I N  D I A
IN DIA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~020                                                                               so0~   55
KIILOMETERSI2488
MILES     . 
'~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lo  >MLE    2b  3'0    4'0    S0
l~~~~         ~ ,2-                                               - I  f //~}                          ,                                  --
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Jnganathganl\                     Myninsingh\
-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L'
tidy iii'+                                             ' ==O: RUkM 'N  ?V                                                                         2
2io, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rN                                                                                                 2V-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
900,i, (.L \, 
INI   <D                                                                                                                                                            22n   ;2\<:/ 
C   ,0   4,,,  X  D,y;_r >,'Trst~~~~~~~~C/77,Z,GONG¢'. 
By of Btft,e       9BAMA          T<t/                         t        >            J5                           /y9)10:      7
9                                         .                To Chttt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \   \   92°~~~~~~~~ 



I 



5 JvR  9\1      890               900                                                                  92
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Thickness of Upper Clay and  Silt
-26t t    (9)' 'g1 \9XGoubot:                                                                 Range of thickness of
r J-<utggot>Xf     >     <     <       ,<                               upper clay  and  silt (ft)                                        26_
Less than  3-                            Roads
N ,Kn) <    A   tR   2l@ fit                              3 - 15                                     Railways
¢ got/hornt n 'i_n,Jn  ;                                                                  15-50                     -               Rivers
50 -80                                   International
boundaries
250                                                                                                -   CHIcttcsk~~~~~~~~~~~~80-  1
more  than llS
t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hoa 2R                                                                                      5 __-;-
-25'~~~~~~~~~2
, < it \ ? ' - s ' i k SI = - X ~~~~RANGAMAT- 
This map h1as been etepered by ihe  t-                                                                                 HiTGN    
World Bank s s ta ff exc lost vely f or    .S - \   . *   
the csnyesrense of ithe readers of  ') f                                
thne report to wk,nk it s atarhed  -       = -..                        .~-                        
The denrEn'atitsusshed and the    . ''- '-             '           -             --                     -'                                                     J
koosdar,es shown on thin map       ,- .: .< ,                              .-V2
do not anpip. on the Port of the   .1                    :     ~     ~    ~     ..;-        -      
Wo./d Batik and its affhiaten, any         --:-                                                    
sudkmeni on eke lepal statass op                           --                     _
any terniton, or any endorsement *                   -.                , -
or oncceptanne of sunk koondarles  !-     - -                                                                                                   .z      9  
I N DIA                     D-C0   
-                                      0  2         25            50            75 MILE5S                                 .2
2V
.                             ~        ~       ~~       ~       ~~~~0 50  100 KILOMETERS                  
SRI LANKA                                                99                                                                    2     
BOGR ~ ~ ~ ~ 9090                                                                         2 



I



'89  ~~~~~~~~~~9.92
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Geology and Dry Season Water Levels
b      ~~~~lInterstream  Deposits of Silt,    m'~ Pleistocene Alluvium, mainly
Sand and Gravel, usually '~ 1- Madhurpur & Barind
2SIhtly higher than surround-        Pli- Pleistocene Dupitila- 
De ltoo Dposits                     Sandytclayt & Pebble Beds
(undaiffDerentiated                  Miocene Sedimentary Rocks
Z    Beach Sand                    ,a   Water Level Contaurs (as of
'N  K                    0~~~~~~~~j~~~ ~Piedmont Deposits           June, 1979, in feet)
Terrace & Meander Deposits       -"--  Rivers
4      %          ,        1;:    f   ',_ t wamp Deposits, mainly                   International Boundaries
777    7K" >~WtC~          7. -%-
25'  f~~~~~~~~~~~"  *1>   " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Coastal ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ 2'
\25 ''                    -- .,                                                                                       2
t 'K"  ' -''' ,' - - '                                                5s,''  .'"'-j', '/-.
-                  l                                   X=  - -             -A                     (
NXF,;j_,f                          jX.  .  . N <..e,,.( ~. .:3 .  
24~~~~~~~~~  --  N      on'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N~~~2'
-24'                .            *                    -<                     > v    X     e _t                                    24t_
~~    /  N)~    ~
WoDl;d B-lk go tsaflte.nyH   . *f;,f .,6t 'D $    -, o f' ',$/
r cetneosuhbounaes8C -   '  6thiJg'.  '      -          /-//P?  % 
~-t-pl,-    -h p tlt &f    +.;.h.'"/.
W-1dco< B.,, -d .~ . . 'tH/ j Y
pd-' -t -5 th '1-pS././/f  
I N  D  I A              > D-s
2.                2                                        I -                                                   W
0            s/           100 K LOMETERS
~~ 4                     <a>  7/4'
SRI LANKA                                                                                                       :           _
..o map°non boon propared by ike  *   a a <9                               91°'                        92 a  ,                O'_



