Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        C   PY
Report No. 3835-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
June 30, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =       Taka 19.5
Taka 1                 US$0.0513
Taka 1 million =        US$51,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)               =       0.405 hectare (ha)
1 maund                   =      82.27  lb (37.3 kg)
1 md/ac                   =       0.037 tons/ac
1 metric ton (ton)        =      26.8   md
1 cubic foot per second =         0.0283 cubic meter
(cusec)                             per second (cusec)
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman  -  Paddy planted before or during the monsoon
(which begins in June) and harvested in
November or December (b. aman is broadcast
aman, T. aman is transplanted aman).
Aus   -  Paddy planted during March and April and
harvested during July and August (b. aus
is broadcast aus, t.aus is transplanted
aus).
Boro  -  Paddy planted in November-December and harvest
during April to June.
Rabi  -  Dry season.
Paddy - Unhusked rice.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FM OFFICIAL USE ONfLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADC    - Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BB      - Bangladesh Bank
BIDS    - Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BKB     - Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSBL    - Bangladesh Samabaya Bank
BWDB    - Bangladesh Water Development Board
CAD     - Command Area Development
CB      - Commercial Banks
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Authority
DAE     - Department of Agriculture and Extension
DCCB    - District Central Cooperative Banks
DPEC    - District Project Executive Committee
DTW     - Deep Tubewell
FAO/CP  - Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GOB     - Government of Bangladesh
HTW     - Hand Tubewell
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
IDA     - International Development Association
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMP     - Irrigation Management Program
IRDP    - Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS     - Krishi Samabaya Samity (Village Cooperative Society)
LLP     - Low Lift Pump
MLGRD&C - Ministry of Local Government Rural Development
& Cooperatives
MTFPP   - Medium Term Food Production Plan
ODA     - Overseas Development Administration
PCC     - Project Coordinating Committee
pP      - Project Proforma
RDA     - Rural Development Academy
RWP     - Rural Works Program
SB      - Sonali Bank
SIDA    - Swedish International Development Authority
STW     - Shallow Tubewell         -
TCCA    - Thana Central Cooperative Association
TPO     - Thana Project Officer
UMPCS   - Union Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies
UNDP    - United Nation Development Program
This document has a resricd distrihmim and may be usd by recivients only in the performance of
their official duties, Its contents mna .o otherwise be dcowld withoa World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ...................................1
II.   BACKGROUND        ........................        ..................
The Agricultural Sector ................         .. ................
Minor Irrigation Sub-Sector ...............................                   2
Agricultural Institutions and Input Supply ....                ............  6
Agricultural Cooperative Institutions                    .        .          6
Agricultural Credit Institutions  ........... .. .............    10
IDA Operations in the Minor Irrigation Sector ...........             ..    11
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ..............................                             12
General ................................................ 12
Climate .....  12
Topography, Soils and Drainage ........            ....................    12
Groundwater Resources and Development ......              ...............    13
Irrigation .....................    14
Water Distribution System ..................                                ................   14
Farm Size and Land Tenure .........................                         15
IRDP/TCCA/KSS in the Project Area ........            .................    15
Agricultural Situation .......................                              16
Communications .......................                                      16
Electric Power ...            ......................  16
IV.  THE PROJECT ......................................                           17
Project Objectives ........                 ..         .........            17
Project Description ...................    17
Detailed Features ...................                                       18
Procurement and Installation of Deep Tubewells ....               ........   18
Procurement of Drilling Rigs ..............................    18
Strengthening BADC .....................                                    18
Technical Assistance .....................    19
Groundwater Studies .....................    19
Pilot Schen.e to Study Improved Distribution System ... .....   20
Experimental Program to Test Tubewell Designs ....               .........   20
Strengthening of IRDP/TCCA/KSS Program ....                ................   20
Rural Credit .       ..............................................    21
Project Evaluation .........            ...............................    21
Procurement of Diesel Fuel ........................                         21
Project Costs and Financing ...............              ................    22
Procurement ... ..                        .... .                            26
Disbursement ...................................                            27
Project Accounts and Audit ................              ................    28



- ii -
Page No.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................   28
Organization and Management ................................  28
Project Coordination ...................................  29
Implementation Schedule ..........................          29
Group Formation, Site Selection and Loan Application
Procedures ..........................   30
Operation and Maintenance . ..........................   31
Flow of Medium-Term and Short-Term Credit ....  .............  31
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ......   .....................  33
Projected Cropping Patterns .......   ........................  33
Yields and Production .........   ............................  34
Projected Command Area Development .....   ...................  35
Marketing and Prices ..........  ............................  36
VII.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......    .....................  37
Farm Income (Farm Models) .......    ..........................  37
Cost Recovery . .............................................  40
Impact on Government Budget ......    .........................  41
Returns and Costs of Water .......    .........................  41
Project Benefits and Justification .....    ...................  42
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests ....   ...............  43
Project Risks . .............................................  45
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES ......    ......................  45
SCHEDULE A - Agricultural Medium Term Credit - Lending Terms and
Conditions
ANNEX 1 - Groundwater Resources and Development
Table 1 -  Cainozoic Geology of Bangladesh
Table 2 - Aquifer Transmission Properties
Table 3 - Estimates of Potential Annual Recharge
Table 4 - BADC Deep Tubewell Installation Record
Table 5 - Gross, Net and Irrigated Accreages in Project Area
Table 6 - DTW Engines Imported to Bangladesh
Table 7 - Electricity Energy Balance for Bangladesh
ANNEX 2
Table 1 -  Summary Project Costs
Table 2 -  Cost Estimate - Purchase of DTW Components by IDA
Table 3 -  Cost Estimate - Purchase of DTW Components by ODA
Table 4 -  Cost Estimate - Installation of 4,000 DTW
Table 5 - Unit Cost of Different Types of DTW
Table 6 - Operation and Maintenance Costs for Diesel Powered DTW
Table 7 - Operation and Maintenance Costs of Electrically Powered DTW
Table 8 -  Ccst of Drilling Rigs and Auxiliary Equipment



- iii -
Table 9  -  Cost Estimate - BADC Project Implementation Unit
Table 10 -  Cost Estimate - BADC Field Operations
Table 11 -  Consulting Services - Capital Cost Estimate
Table 12 -  Consulting Services - Personnel and Other Operating Costs
Table 13 -  Cost Estimate - IRDP Capital Costs
Table 14 -  Cost Estimate - IRDP Incremental Operating Costs
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference of Consultants
Appendix 2 - Importation of Diesel Fuel
ANNEX 3
Table 1 -  Projected Number of TCCA/KSS and Membership in Project Area
Table 2  -  Existing Thana Facilities in Project Area
ANNEX 4
Table 1  -  Disbursement Schedule
Table 2  -  Proposed Allocation of Credit
ANNEX 5
Table 1 -  Cropping Pattern, Area Irrigated and Phasing of DTW
Table 2  -  Crop Yields
Table 3  -  Summary of Crop Input Requirements
Table 4  -  Irrigation Requirements
Table 5  -  Crop Consumptive Use Estimates
Table 6  -  Climatic and Evaporation Data
ANNEX 6  -  Financial Analysis
Table 1 -  Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in Madhupur Tract
(Well Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Table 2  -  Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in Madhupur Tract
(Poorly Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Table 3  -  Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in Old Brahmaputra
Flood Plains - (Well Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Table 4  -  Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in Old Brahmaputra
Flood Plains - (Poorly Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Table 5  -  DTW Pricing Policy - STW Equivalent Price Calculation
Table 6 -  DTW Pricing Policy - Cost Structure for STW 110 ft Depth
Table 7  -  DTW Pricing Policy - Estimated Cost of Water Use for
STW and DTW (800 hrs/year)
Table 8  -  Economic Costs and Returns to Water
ANNEX 7  -  Economic Analysis
Table 1  -  Derivation of Prices for Rice and Wheat in the Economic Analysis
Table 2  -  Derivation of Fertilizer Prices Used in the Economic Analysis
Table 3  -  Financial and Economic Prices
Table 4  -  Economic Analysis
ANNEX 8  -  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- iv -
CHARTS
World Bank 23532 - Typical Well Section (Diesel Powered)
World Bank 23533 - Typical Well Section (Electrically Powered)
World Bank 23534 - Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 16189 - Project Area and Study Area
IBRD 16190 - Thickness of Upper Clay and Silt
IBRD 16191 - Geology and Dry Season Water Levels



BANGLAIDESh
DEEP TUBEWELL (II) PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested the International
Development Agency (IDA) for assistance in financing a Deep Tubewell (DTW)
project in parts of the Mymensingh, Kishoreganj and Dacca districts of
Bangladesh. The Project would support GOB's ongoing efforts to increase the
area irrigated by DTWs from 0.55M acres in 1979/80 to 1.55M acres by 1984/85,
and would be an integral part of the Medium Term Food Production Plan (MTFPP)
which is designed to attain food self-sufficiency by 1985.
1.02        The project as designed is based on experience gained from a
number of ongoing projects in Bangladesh, in particular upon the IDA financed
Northwest Tubewell Project (Cr. 341-BD) launched in 1969, and upon recommenda-
tions of the Joint GOB/IDA Minor Irrigation Sector, 1/ and Integrated Rural
Development Program (IRDP) Reviews. 2/
1.03        The project was identified by GOB and IDA, and was prepared by the
Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP).
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising:
Messrs. P.M. Tamboli, H. Sanger (IDA), W. Bakiewicz and Shrinath Singh
(Consultants) who visited Bangladesh in October/November 1981.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01        Bangladesh, with an area of 35 M acres of predominantly fertile
alluvial soils and ample groundwater, is well endowed with agricultural
resources. Agriculture dominates economic activity employing about three-
fourths of the work force and directly accounting for about half of GDP
and over three-fourths of exports. Because of the high population density
(230 per sq. mile) and small size farms (60% less than 1 ac), agriculture
is subsistence oriented. Food crops predominate and contribute about three-
fourths of agricultural GDP. The major crop is rice covering over three-
fourths of the cropped area.
2.02        Agricultural production grew very slowly in the 1950s and 1960s,
with rice production growing at only 0.7% and 2.5% per annum respectively
compared with a population growth rate of 3% during the same period. In
1/   "Minor Irrigation Sector Review A joint Review by GOB/IDA" - draft
report April 1981.
2/   "Integrated Rural Development Program, A Joint Review by Government and
the World Bank", January 1981.



-2-
the early 1970's production received a further setback due to the war of
independence. As a result, Bangladesh became a major importer, with food
imports averaging about 1.8M tons annually. However, in recent years,
with improved use of groundwater, fertilizer and improved seeds, foodgrain
production has increased from an average of 10.81M tons in 1971-75 to an
average of 12.8M tons in 1976-80, and it is expected to reach 15Fi tons in
1981.
B. Minor Irrigation Sub-Sector
Physical Development
2.03       Though Bangladesh has substantial surface water resources in the
form of perennial rivers, the size and strongly seasonal flow regimes of
systems such as the Ganges-Padma and the Brahmaputra-Jamuna, and the nature
of the topography of the country, make the development of major storage and
large-scale gravity irrigation impossible or difficult and very expensive.
Therefore, traditionally the local farmers have concentrated on small scale
lift irrigation for cropping in the dry (boro) season from November to March
and supplementary irrigation for Aman during the monsoon season.
2.04       Traditional Irrigation.  Until the 1950s practically all minor
irrigation depended on manual power. Devices such as the swing basket, the
hinged channel, and the counterpoised lift are still in common use to lift
water a few feet from rivers, streams, ponds and sometimes shallow dug wells.
Some 1.2 M acres are irrigated in that way.
2.05       Low Lift Pumps (LLP).  Under the pressure of rapidly expanding
population and exhaustion of new cultivable land, mechanised small scale
irrigation began to be introduced to Bangladesh about 20-25 years ago
to increase cropping intensity. Emphasis was placed on relatively cheap and
individually small (1-2 cusec) low lift pumps (LLPs). It is estimated that
about 36,000 LLPs are currently being used to irrigate about 1.4 M acres.
Most LLPs are owned and maintained by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC) and rented to farmers. Five IDA projects (Credits 340,
542, 605, 725 and 990) support low lift pump development. The Medium-Term
Food Production Plan (MTFPP) envisages the irrigation of about 2.0 M acres of
land by exploiting surface water through fielding about 51,000 pumps with an
installed capacity of 90,000 cusecs.
2.06         Development of Shallow Tubewells (STW) started in the mid 1970s
and is being supported by two IDA projects. (Credit 724 and a part of Credit
631). Typically STW are about 0.5-0.75 cusec units and easily and quickly in-
stalled by local drillers using simple equipment. About 24,000 STW have been
installed; about half each by BADC and the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB). While
STW are privately owned either by individuals or small farmer groups, procure-
ment and installation has so far been organized by the two agencies. however,
BADC has recently decided that equipment supplies and STW repairs would be
handled by the private sector.  MTFPP proposes increasing the area irrigated
by STW from 0.27M ac with 24,000 STW in 1980/81 to 1.08M ac by fielding
additional 90,000 STW in 1984/85.



-3-
2.07      Development of Hand Tuibewells (HTW) each costing only about
US$100 and capable of irrigating 1/2 to 1 acre of land, is the most recent
groundwater program. About 100,000 have been installed to date and another
180,000 would be installed under the recently IDA assistea project (Cr. 1140).
2.08      Deep Tubewells (DTW) are expected to play a major role in GOB's
development program.  DTW would typically be two cusec units (WB Charts 23532
and 23533) capable of irrigating up to 100 acres. Construction requires tech-
nically skilled supervision which is mainly provided by BADC. About 13,000 DTW
have been installed of which 11,500 are commissioned. So far, the program
has been supported by a number of aid programs including the IDA credit
341-BD which financed 3,000 DTW. Under MTFPP, GOB envisages installing
18,000 additional DTW by 1985 and has either secured or is negotiating
financing for about 13,000 DTW. This appears to be a rather optimistic
program. The present project, which would install 4,000 DTW in a four year
period, would be an integral part of GOB's efforts to promote the Minor
Irrigation Sector. At present DTW are mostly owned and maintained by BADC
and rented at relatively nominal rates to farmers' groups. However, GOB has
recently introduced a policy to sell DTW to farmers.
2.09      The present and projected future status of the various mechanical
lift devices in Bangladesh is as follows:
Device      Approximate       Approximate          Additional        Approximate
No. in         Area Irrigated       No. Proposed    Area Proposed
Operation*          (000 ac)         Under MTFPP       to be Irrigated
(000)                                 (000)            under MTFPP
(000 ac)
LEP           36.0              1,400                51.0               2,000
DTW           11.5                640                18.0               1,080
STW           24.0                270                90.0               1,080
HTW          100.0                 40               180.0                  72
Total   2,350                                   4,232
In 1980-81 irrigation season.
In total there are about 3.7 M acres under irrigation in Bangladesh; in
addition to the above 0.2 M are irrigated by gravity, and 1.2 M by traditional
bucket-lift methods from surface water resources. Minor irrigation development
is the keystone of the Second Five Year Plan (SFYP). GOB plans to double the
irrigated area by 1985 as part the Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
(MTFPP) - which aims at producing 18-20 M tons of foodgrain to achieve
self-sufficiency by 1985.



-4
Groundwater Resources Management
2.10      As groundwater development in Bangladesh is still at an early stage
it will be many years before regional hydrological constraints are approached.
However, to minimize future problems it is imperative for GOB to start pre-
paring suitable legislation for an orderly development of the country's
groundwater and surface water resources as soon as possible. In the IDA
assisted STW project, assurances were obtained that government would appoint
an Expert Committee to review this issue and that the Committee would submit
proposals for IDA review by December 31, 1979. In order to comply with this
covenant, GOB has now submitted Terms of Reference of the Task Force and
draft proposals for a study of water resources regulations which were accept-
able to IDA. Assurances have been obtained that GOB would appoint this Task
Force as soon as possible and would furnish to IDA for its review detailed
proposals for the regulation of water development not later than December 31,
1983.
Minor Irrigation Sector Policy
2.11      In the past government policy had emphasized the development of
large-scale gravity irrigation.  However, by the early 1960's a change in
emphasis occurred with priority being given to minor irrigation equipment
(LLP, STW, HTW and DTW). Since then there has been a rapid increase in
irrigated acreage due to minor irrigation equipment (see paras 2.03 to 2.09).
BADC, which is by far the most important agency concerned with minor irriga-
tion development, has contributed significantly to the development of this
sector.  However, it has been obvious for some time that it has outgrown
its strength.  As a result, BADC has moved increasingly to divest some of its
responsibilities. Fertilizer wholesaling was recently transferred in part
to the private sector, and, in irrigation, it is now government policy to
"privatize" the procurement/distribution of equipment and spares as well as
the provision of maintenance services. In fact, in coming years the sale of
minor irrigation equipment in particular HTW, LLP, and STW would be handed
over to the private sector and so would be their maintenance. However, BADC
intends to retain sole responsibility for the supply and installation of DTW
because their installation is much more technically demanding. While in the
past BADC's operations were heavily subsidized government's present policy is
to gradually reduce subsidization by selling most minor irrigation equipment
to farmers' groups at full cost and charging market rates for spares and
services. An exception would be made for DTW, which because of their high
cost would be sold at a subsidized rate. Government now aims at selling DTW
at a price which would equate the cost of irrigation water with that from STW
(see paras 7.06-7.08). This would substantially reduce the subsidy from the
present rental operations. Moreover, to further reduce subsidization of
minor irrigation equipment, GOB has decided to sell all existing irrigation
equipment to farmers at reasonable prices. As a corollary to this policy
rental charges would substantially be increased during coming years. Assur-
ances have been obtained by Government that adequate MT credit would be
provided to farmers to purchase existing DTW on conditions acceptable to IDA
and that annual rental charges be increased from the present rate of Tk 3,400
to Tk 5,000 in FY 1983/84, Tk 7,500 in FY 1984/85 and Tk 10,000 in FY 1985/86.
At least 60% of the DTW rentals would be collected by June 30, 1982/83 and at
least 75% by June 30, 1983/84 and thereafter. Assurances were obtained that
all spare parts for DTW rented by BADC would be sold at full cost.



- 5-
Irrigation Management Program (IMP)
2.12      Minor irrigation equipment is currently irrigating an average of
20-25 acres for one cusec installed capacity. Conservatively estimated the
potential would at least be 50 percent greater. One of the main reasons for
the under-utilization of the equipment is the poor organization and management
of the user groups. To remedy this problem, IMP was introduce in the IDA-
assisted Rural Development Project (Credit 631-BD) in 1979-80. BADC, IRDP
and DAE officers at the district and thana levels are jointly responsible for
implementing the program which aims at increasing the command area per unit of
irrigation equipment and thus reducing the irrigation cost.  The essential
features of the program are: (a) preparation of action plans; (b) selection
of DTW; (c) organizing KSS meetings to explain utility of water management;
(d) training of managers, model farmers and chairmen of KSS, TCCA inspectors,
village accountants, block leaders, fieldmen, and tubewell operators; (e)
preparation of land maps and land registers; (f) laying of irrigation channels;
and (g) preparation of irrigation budgets. The program has been very suc-
cessful. During 1979/80 a pilot program which included 20 DTW, increased the
area irrigated per DTW on an average from 52 to 94 acres; average production
per DTW increased from 1,907 mds to 5,449 mds; cost of irrigation per acre
decreased on an average from Tk 404 to Tk 282; and use of production credit
increased by 167%. Similar success was achieved when the IMP was gradually
expanded in 1980/81 and 1981/82. Because of such promising results, GOB has
decided to replicate IMP on a nationwide basis and has published a comprehen-
sive manual in Bengali for implementing IMP,  The proposed project area would
receive priority for implementing this program. Since training of district
and thana level staff of all the concerned agencies is the most important
aspect of IMP, the project would provide funds and facilities for this
training. This support to IMP would ensure optimum utilization of DTW under
the project. Assurances have been obtained that the IMP would be implemented
in the project area.
Minor Irrigation Institutions
2.13      The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC) was
established in 1961, as a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agri-
culture. It is one of the largest organizations in Bangladesh with an annual
budget of over Tk 6.2 billion (US$300 million), and over 26,000 employees.
In the minor irrigation field BADC is responsible for the LLP and DTW programs
and has supplied about half of the installed STW and HTW. It also has a
virtual monopoly to procure and supply fertilizers and seeds. The responsi-
bility for installing and maintaining irrigation equipment lies with the
Irrigation Wing of BADC. Under the IDA assisted STW project (Cr. 724-BD)
it was agreed that the irrigation wing of BADC in the Northwest Region would
be restructured. The key elements of the proposed restructuring were:
(a) formation of an installation division responsible for all operational
fieldwork which would eliminate the duplication of efforts and provide needed
operational flexibility; and (b) establishment of separate supply and mainte-
nance divisions which would allow BADC management to focus greater attention
on these critical but neglected areas. However, this covenant has not been
implemented so far. This issue was discussed during the joint GOB/IDA minor
irrigation sector review. As a result an agreement has been reached to carry



-6-
out restructuring of BADC's Irrigation Wing on a national basis. However,
implementation of these proposals will require considerable time since major
organizational changes involving restructuring and reorientation of a large
number of people will be necessary. To implement this proposal, BADC has
established a Management Development Unit (MDU). Assurances have been obtained
that GOB would furnish to IDA for its review proposals for the reorganization
of BADC's Irrigation Wing by September 30, 1983, and would complete imple-
mentation of these proposals by September 30, 1984.
2.14       Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), founded in 1959, is a
semi-autonomous body under the Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and
Flood Control. It is responsible for major surface water irrigation schemes,
drainage, flood and erosion control, town protection, and river training,
throughout Bangladesh. It also operates small LLP and DTW programs. BWDB
has the statutory responsibility for surface and groundwater resources
management. BWDB was also the subject of a Joint GOB/IDA Review whose
findings are fully discussed in the report No. 2327-BD - April 1979.
C. Agricultural Institutions and Input Supply
2.15       The Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE) of the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible for providing extension services. The IDA financed
Extension and Research I (EAR I) project represents the first substantial
effort to strengthen DAE through introduction of the training and visit system
in the five districts of North West Bangladesh. Since the project started in
FY77-78, wheat production in the project area has increased by 225X and fertil-
izer consumption has reached a record high. The recently negotiated EAR II
project would reorganize agricultural services and strengthen thiem in 15 out
of the 21 agricultural districts of Bangladesh. It would cover the project
area of the DTW project so that a separate extension component has not been
added to this project.
2.16       GOB has recently handed over the retailing of fertilizers, pesticides,
and sprayers to the private sectors and has reduced subsidies for these inputs.
Although input supplies are adequate and farmers have had no difficulties in
obtaining them in the project area there is a need for additional fertilizer
godowns to cater for expanded use. Financing for these facilites is expected
to be provided for under the proposed Second Rural Development Project.
D. Agricultural Cooperative Institutions
2.17       There are two types of agricultural cooperatives in Bangladesh
the traditional cooperatives and the Comilla type two tier cooperative system,
the Thana Central Cooperative Association (TCCA) and Krishi Samabaya Samity
(KSS) system. Both cooperative systems are under the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD and C) with the Registrar of
Cooperative Societies directly supervising the traditional cooperatives and the



-7-
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) supervising the TCCA/KSS. The
two systems have existed in parallel, to some extent to each others detriment.
It is GOB's intention that the two systems should eventually merge and that
all primary societies should become KSS and affiliate with TCCA and that the
Bangladesh Samabaya Bank Ltd. (BSBL) should become the apex bank of the unified
system. So far, however, GOB has not taken any concrete actions in this
direction.
2.18      The traditional cooperative system, which dates back to 1904,
consists of the BSBL at the apex, financing 16 Land Mortgage Banks, 12 Central
Sugarcane Growers Societies and 62 District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCB)
to which about 30,000 village and union multi-purpose societies (UMPCS) are
affiliated. The traditional cooperative system is thus closely intertwined
with the cooperative banking system. Performance of the traditional coopera-
tive system has been poor. In fact, many of the UMPCS are moribund due to
heavy and chronic overdues. In 1980 these overdues amounted to 53% of out-
standing loans and chronic overdues of Tk. 298 M far exceeded owned capital
of Tk. 78 M. The unsatisfactory recovery performance is due to a lack of
adequate staff to supervise and guide affiliated primary societies as well
as inadequate resources in the cooperative banking system. The eventual
unification of the two cooperative systems would require financial
rehabilitation and reorganization of the traditional UMPCS and their
financing institutions.
2.19      The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) was set up nearly
a decade ago to initiate the national replication of the TCCA/KSS system
following its successful development and testing at Comilla. The objective
of the system is to enable economically weak, small farmers to act collec-
tively through the establishment of autonomous and financially viable cooper-
atives. KSS are expected to collect thrift deposits, introduce group manage-
ment of irrigation equipment and provide regular training, institutional
credit, inputs and marketing services. To date, TCCA have been established
in about two-thirds of the thanas in the country. Between 1972 and 1980,
TCCA increased from 33 to 267, KSS from 5,700 to 39,660 and KSS membership
f-em 136,000 to 1.3 M. Twenty percent of all farm families in thanas covered
by TCCA have joined as active members. TCCA/KSS are categorized A, B, C, D,
and E according to the performance regarding (a) coverage of farm families;
(b) loan recoveries; (c) build-up of thrift savings; (d) income/expenditure
ratios; (4) attendance at weekly meetings; and (f) regularity in accounts,
audits and annual general meetings. Sixty-five percent of TCCA and 45% of
KSS respectively belong to A and B categories. This performance is highly
noteworthy, considering that so far only few services demanded by members
have been provided through the TCCA/KSS system. Unfortunately, over the
years, the too rapid expansion of the TCCA/KSS system has led to a deteriora-
tion of its quality and loss of focus. The objective of creating self-
financing, self-managed farmers' associations has been lost sight of and TCCA
had become an extension of the IRDP bureaucracy, which itself has tended to
become Dacca bound and administration and control oriented. TCCA/KSS forma-
tion became an end in itself. As a result, a large number of KSS have no
adequate productive investment -- such as irrigation -- as a foundation for



- 8 -
their business.  Moreover, IRDP training -- a major component of its program
-- has lost its initial enthusiasm and effectiveness, and whatever training
has been provided has largely been irrelevant for want of productive activi-
ties to focus on. Finally, the TCCA/KSS system's input supply and marketing
operations have also been weak. Thus, despite noteworthy quantitative
achievements, the program has revealed serious limitations as too many TCCA
and KSS perform poorly and too few members receive adequate services.
2.20      The key objective of the TCCA/KSS movement is to build up its own
resources to become self-financing entities. Performance in this regard
has been quite good relative to services offered. The total owned capital
with TCCA was Tk. 92.5 M in 1980 against TK. 11.64 M in 1972. Owned capital
was equivalent to 45% of the total ST credit channelled by the system in
1980 and represented 44% of total outstanding loans. These figures, which
are substantially higher than those for the traditional cooperative sector,
indicate the potential of the TCCA/KSS system to achieve financial viability.
however, due to limited activities and income, most TCCA/KSS continue to
depend on annual grants from IRDP to meet a major portion of their operating
and training costs. The distribution of more irrigation equipment in the
future is expected to greatly help TCCA/KSS to achieve the critical objective
of becoming self-sufficient.
2.21      The major input available to TCCA/KSS members has been short-term
crop production credit. Disbursement of short-term credit increased from Tk.
16.2 M in 1973/74 to Tk. 204 M in 1979/80, mainly reflecting the expansion of
the TCCA from 33 in 1972 to 267 in 1980.  In 1978/79 ST credit was provided
to about 398,000 farm families or 33% of the 1.2 M national total of farm
families who obtained credit from institutional sources, making the TCCA/KSS
system one of the major channels of distributing credit to farmers in the
country. Credit recovery performance of the TCCA/KSS has been the best among
the agencies involved in institutional credit. In fact, of the 233 TCCA for
which full data are available, 14 TCCA had 100% recovery, while 85% of the
remainder had more than 70% recovery levels. The bulk of the recorded
overdues represented delayed payments, and defaults over four to five years
are no more than 2.5% to 3% of total overdues. When the overdues and annual
lending are compared with the owned capital, the credit-worthiness of the
system is clearly evident as at no time during the 1973-80 period has the
owned capital of the system been less than 50% of annual loans.
2.22      In most recent years participation of members in the ST credit
program has tended to stagnate, mainly because the critically important input
-- irrigation equipment -- which is the main stimulant of demand For ST and
MT credit, has been in short supply. Moreover, cumbersome loan application
and approval procedures, a much higher ST loan interest rate (17.5%) than
that charged by other institutions (12%) and very tight lending conditions
have also been contributing factors. Finally, ST credit has further been
limited by the fact that so far it has been confined to a narrow range of
crops as a number of specialized agencies have been given the monopoly right
to provide credit for their activities (i.e. jute, sugar-cane and cotton,
etc.). GOB has been considering proposals to rationalize the interest rate



- 9 -
structure so as, inter alia, to reduce the disincentive for farmers to borrow
from TCCA/KSS. Financing has been provided under the Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. BD-1147) for a review of cooperative agricultural credit to
improve lending procedures and eligibility criteria. This would help ensure
that the proposed project would be supported by an adequate supply of short-
term credit.
2.23      The Government, recognizing both the shortcomings of IRDP and also
its potential for the successful implementation of the Second Five-Year Plan,
undertook a joint review of IRDP with the World Bank to prepare recommenda-
tions of how to improve the effectiveness of IRDP operations in the future.
The report of the review has been finalized and it is expected that its
major recommendations will be implemented in the near future. The major con-
clusion of the report is that equitable development can only be achieved
through programs dealing with groups, not individual farmers. Despite the
shortcomings mentioned above, the IRDP and the TCCA/KSS system have demon-
strated the potential for becoming a key factor in achieving equitable and
efficient development, especially in the irrigation sector. However, to
fully realize this potential, a number of improvements will have to be made
in IRDP's organization, training programs, credit distribution, and marketing,
as well as in its general operating environment. Most critical at this stage
is the future status of IRDP. The joint review of IRDP concluded that its
program status was undesirable as it lacked the flexibility of an autonomous
organization. It was therefore recommended that IRDP be reconstituted as an
Integrated Rural Development Board (IRDB) expecting that the status of an
autonomous agency would enable IRDP to more effectively carry out its task
of promotion and development. Although this recommendation was accepted by
all parties involved and the program status of IRDP ended in July 1980, so
far no action has been taken by government to change the status of IRDP. An
urgent decision is needed as the present atmosphere of indecision and uncer-
tainty is seriously affecting staff morale and thus IRDP performance. Con-
sidering the importance of IRDP for the successful implementation of the
project, assurances have been obtained that GOB would take all necessary
measures to strengthen and restructure IRDP not later than December 31,
1982. The proposed project is expected to make a major contribution to
improving the TCCA/KSS cooperative sector, as it would strengthen IRDP
services and TCCA/KSS would be its primary beneficiaries in distributing
irrigation equipment. In fact, it is generally recognized that GOB's ambi-
tious development programs for irrigation and cooperative development are
interdependent: the best nucleus around which to build a strong TCCA/KSS
cooperative system is irrigation development, while equitable and efficient
irrigation development can best be achieved by using the TCCA/KSS system.
The achievement of this twin objective is the primary goal of the Second Deep
Tubewell Project.



- 10 -
E. Agricultural Credit Institutions
2.24      Institutional lending for agriculture is directed and coordinated by
the Bangladesh Bank (BB), the country's Central Bank, and channelled through
cooperatives, Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) and the six nationalized commercial
banks (CB). Lending has expanded rapidly, particularly during the last four
years when it rose from Tk 1,060 M in 1976/77 to Tk 2,684 M in 1979/80,
mainly as a result of the rapid expansion of the TCCA/KSS cooperative system,
expansion of BKB and increasing involvement of CB in rural lending. The
annual lending program for each institution is drawn up by BB, which also
provides refinance as required.  With nearly 80,000 village cooperative
societies, 3,800 CB branches and 557 BKB branches Bangladesh has a good
credit distribution network. Despite rapid expansion of rural lending in
recent years, overall demand for modern inputs and thus for crop production
credit has remained limited mainly due to lack of irrigation equipment without
which the use of modern inputs is often not profitable. It is one of the
major objectives of the SFYP to increase the availability of minor irrigation
facilities and thus stimulate rural lending in the future. Since the project
would be implemented in the co-operative sector, the discussion of credit
operations is confined to those of the TCCA/KSS system (para 2.19) and the
Sonali Bank which is the banker of the system.
2.25      Sonali Bank is the largest commercial bank (CB) in Bangladesh
with the most experience in agricultural lending. Sonali operates through
91i branches (630 rural) and has established a rural credit department with
a 28 professional staff at head office. Because of resource constraints of
BSBL, the Sonali Bank has been the exclusive refinance agency for the TCCA/KSS
cooperative system since 1973/74. GOB offered a 30% guarantee to Sonali to
back up its loans to the TCCA/KSS just as it did for the other nationalized
commercial banks and BKB. Through FY80 Sonali Bank had made little use of the
guarantee having called up only Tk 24 M. Hence, in early FY80, GOB advised
Sonali that the guarantee would be discontinued as the loans to the TCCA/KSS
system were considered to be such that Sonali could make them at its own
risk. However, GOB guarantees have continued to be available to BKB and all
other nationalized banks for the same type of loans under the special Agricul-
tural Credit Program (the Tk 100 Crore Program). As a result of the with-
drawal of the guarantee Sonali has tightened its loan recovery standards for
TCCA which has led to a sharp drop in the number of TCCA/KSS eligible for
fresh finance. With increasing demand for MT and ST credit by the TCCA/KSS
system and for its own direct lending to other sectors, Sonali is understand-
ably apprehensive about its liquidity position and its capability to ade-
quately finance TCCA/KSS credit operations ir the future.  To make TCCA/KSS
lending attractive to Sonali, whilst allowing the TCCA/KSS system to retain a
sufficient margin for its viability without its on lending rate being markedly
out of line with other rates, BB has provided Sonali Bank with a 3% interest
subsidy for all future TCCA/KSS MT credit operations financed out of its own
resources. However, the BB 3% subsidy will not resolve Sonali's eventual
liquidity problems and thus ensure an uninterrupted flow of MT and ST credit
to TSSA/KSS in the future. Efficient distribution of credit under this
project, and for Sonali's other lending operations with TCCA/KSS, can only be



- 11 -
assured if adequate refinancing facilities are extended to Sonali by BB. In
fact, the provision of these facilities is a prerequisite for a reassessment
of Sonali's tight lending criteria to TCCA/KSS and prevailing interest rate
structure. As noted above, the Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1147-BD)
provides funds for a review of agricultural lending in Bangladesh. The
proposed project would support these efforts to rationalize the present
rather complex institutional set-up and policies for rural lending in
Bangladesh.
F. IDA Operations in the Minor Irrigation Sector
2.26         The North-West Tubewell Project (Credit 341-BD) was the first
minor irrigation project in Bangladesh financed by IDA. The project origi-
nally became effective in September 1970, but due to the war of independence
the project had to be reappraised and therefore became effective in
January 1973 only. IDA prepared a project completion report in March 1981,
the relevant findings of which are summarised below. The project financed
3,000 new two cusec deep tubewells each designed to irrigate about 60 acres,
also included were technical assistance to aid implementation and essential
improvements in supporting services for command area development. Estimated
project costs and economic rate of return were US$40.85M and 26% at appraisal,
and US$45.5M and 23.3% after project completion. Project financing was
assisted by an IDA credit of US$14M, a CIDA credit of US$6M, and a SIDA grant
of US$7.1M. Project implementation took considerably longer than anticipatea
and the original closing date of December 31, 1976 was extended three times,
finally to June 1982. Project implementation delays were mainly due to
problems Bangladesh had to face after the war of independence and also to
delays in procurement, lack of BADC experience in supervising contractors and
lack of experience and inadequate resources of the contractors themselves.
Costs exceeded appraisal estimates even though components for agricultural
support services, 3 triai farms, experimental wells and distribution systems,
and equipment for repairing the Brahmaputra Right Embankment, were not impie-
mented. Most of the increases in cost were in foreign exchange expenditures.
In fact, delays in procurement caused prices for diesel engines and turbine
pumps to increase by 145% and 96% in 1973 and 1975 respectively. Project
objectives and technical aspects proved generally sound. All 3,000 wells were
finally commissioned and the average command area exceeded the 60 acres
predicted at appraisal and will eventually average 70 to 80 acres. However,
an evaluation study conducted by the Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies (BIDS) demonstrated that the appraisal mission had tended to be too
optimistic in their estimates of yields. Yields of about 40 mds/acre for
boro rice were found by the evaluation study compared with the appraisal
mission's estimate of 50 mds/acre. Yields of wheat, a crop not considered
at reappraisal, were 29 mds/acre. In designing the second project, special
emDhasis has been placed on streamlining procurement and installation proce-
dure_ anc to promoting Command Area Development through expansion of the
Irrigation Manaaement Program (IMP).



- 12 -
2.27      The status of the other projects under implemention is briefly
described below: (a) Shallow Tubewell Project (Cr. 724-BD):- US$16 M,
effective December 1977. All 10,500 pumpsets have been procured. About
55X0 of the pumpsets have already been sold; (b) Low Lift Pump Project
(Cr. 990-BD) US$37.0 Mi, effective September 1980. 3,000 two cusec LLP and
1,500 one cusec LLPs were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also
been placed for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase have
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project action plan has been
prepared; (c) Hand Tubewell Project (Cr. No. 1140-BD):- US$18.0 M. This
credit only recently became effective.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01          The project area comprises 35 thanas, including 10 thanas of the
Mymensingh, 11 thanas of the Kishorganj and 14 thanas of the Dacca district
(IBRD Map No. 16189). The gross area of the project is about 2,568,000 acres
of which some 1,874,100 acres is classified as cultivable land. However,
should the demand for deep tubewells in the project area be insufficient to
carry out the project, expansion into adjacent regions would be considered.
The Comilla district would be treated as a priority area for such an expansion
but any other areas classed as suitable for DTWs might be included.
3.02      The project area was selected for deep tubewell installation on
the basis of: (a) farmers' demand for more irrigation water; (b) an identi-
,ied additional groundwater development potential; (c) thick surface clays
and low aquifer transmissivities making part of the area with relatively deep
groundwater levels, unsuitable for shallow tubewells (IBRD Map Nos. 16190 and
16191).
Climate
3.03          The climate is tropical monsoonal, with heavy seasonal rains
interrupted by a dry period of 5 to 6 months. The average annual rainfall
varies from about 70 inches (1800 mm) in the south-west of the project area
to more than 120 inches (3000 mm) in the north-east. Almost 90 percent of
the total annual rainfall occurs between April and October. Mean annual
temperatures are about 80 0F and range between 64 F in January to about 86 F
in May.   Humidity is generally high throughout the year and very high during
the monsoon. Potential evapotranspiration (Eto. as calculated by the Penman
method) is about 49 inches (1250mm), varying from 2.0 inches (51 mm) in
December to 5.5 inches (140 mm) per month in April and May. Eto exceeds
average monthly rainfall in the period between November to April.
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.04      As in most of Bangladesh, the project area is of low relief and
subdued topography. However, three distinct physiographic units can be



- 13 -
identified: the northern piedmont plain, the meander flooc plain of the
old Brahmaputra river, and the Madhupur tract. The northern piedmont plain,
situated in the extreme north of the project area, comprises gently sloping
land at the foot of the Shillong Plateau. It is traversed by many streams
and rivers. The surface material is mainly sandy and silty. The predomi-
nantly loamy soils of the plain are prone to shallow flooding during the
monsoon; adjoining these soils are clay basins, which are subject to deeper
flooding. The flood plain of the Old Brahmaputra is thought to represent a
former course of the Brahmaputra - Jamuna system. It consists of scars,
levees and terraces of sandy and silty soils and of clayey basins. The whole
area, particularly the clay basins, is subject to flooding during the rainy
season. The Madhupur tract is a remnant of an older, Pleistocene alluvial
terrace complex. The soils are normally clayey, but may be loamy where
later drainage channels have cut into the Madhupur clay.  The old terrace is
generally slightly higher than the surrounding areas and therefore less prone
to flooding. Nevertheless the lower parts of the tract are commonly inundated
at the heighf of the monsoon.
3.u5          The project area is drained by many streams and rivers, the
most important of which is tne old brahmaputra. The major part of the
flood plains is inundated curing the monsoon, the depth of flooding depending
on micro-relief.
uroundwater Resources (Annex 1)
3.06      The project area forms a part of the Bengal Basin, which in recent
geological times has been filled by the alluvial deposits of the Ganges,
Brahmaputra and Meghna rivers and their tributaries. Within this alluvial
sequence, the coarser clastic sediments predominate thus constituting a major
aquifer complex. This complex is saturated with groundwater, often to within
a few feet of ground surface.  In terms of stratigraphy the strata underlying
the area are Quaternary alluvium resting unconformably on Tertiary sediments.
Within the alluvium two distinct units can be recognized: the older Pleistocene
deposits of the Madnupur tract and the younger recent alluvium of the surround-
ing area. Considerable efforts are being made to update data on hydraulic pro-
perties, storage properties, and on aquifer recharge. The present level of
groundwater abstraction is estimated at something just uncer one million acre
feet per annum. This project would approximately double this. This total
still represents only about half of the estimated recharge.
Groundwater Development (Annex 1)
3.u7      A review of groundwater development in Bangladesh in general and in
the project area in particular indicate that one of the major constraints has
Deen a shortage ot trained iiela staff. All design decisions have been and
are being made at the neacquarters of the various implementing agencies (i.e.
BADC or BWDB'/'. Fiela staff (mainly divisional officers) are not given the
autnorit- to make any major adaptations or the standara designs to particular
site conoaiions.  Consecuentiy, the design of individual tubewells is very
r_     anc uav D ia_Clie atcention tc regional variationi or :ormation grading
anc Dermeanli-tv. bezter training or tne fiela staff is ttne solution to this
em.



- 14 -
3.08          BADC's level of routine data collection and analysis from the
deep tubewells constructed in the project area in the past has also been poor.
Formation identification is almost entirely by untrained people; very few
drilling samples are analysed for grain size; acceptance pumping tests (step-
drawdown tests) are routinely carried out, but the results are seldom compiled
and analysed. Consequently, despite the drilling of more than 2,500 DTWs in
the area, its hydrogeology is not well understood. Adequate provision has
been made in the proposed project to ensure good training programs. Staff
training together with better site supervision would allow more efficient
design concepts to be established in the future.
Irrigation
3.0J9     Because of the relatively deep groundwater levels and thick surface
clays, large parts of the project area are not suitable for STW installation
and have therefore been earmarked for irrigation development by deep tubewells.
however, both shallow tubewells and low lift pumps are being operated in some
parts of the area. In total, the minor irrigation facilities in the project
area are estimated as follows:-
Type                             Number
Deep tubewells                           2600
Shallow tubewells                        2000
Low lift pumps                           3650
In addition, there are some traditional irrigation systems, which are concen-
trated in the deeply flooded regions in the eastern parts of the project area.
3.10       It is estimated that about 20 percent of the cultivated area is
under some kind of minor irrigation. About half of that is irrigated from
groundwater sources. The principal use of the various facilities is for boro
paddy and for supplementary irrigation of aman crops. The average area irri-
gated per DTW is reported to have risen steadily from over 30 to bO acres over
the past few years. Greater extension efforts and better credit facilities
would be required to further improve the use of existing irrigation equipment.
Water Distribution System
3.11      Distribution of tubewell water to the irrigated fields is normally
by channel systems constructed by the farmers. These are mainly unlined,
though brick and mortar lining has been used for the main channels in a few
cases and testing of alternative distribution systems is a feature of the
UNDP, Command Area Development Project. Application rates are reported to be
about 2 inches (51 mm) at a time. With anything up to 100 farmers sharing
the water from a DTW, the irrigation roster has to be simple; normally it
is based on delivering water to a particular part of the command area on a
particular day of the week. Improving layouts and management of the distri-
bution system is an important element of IMP (para 2.12).



- 15 -
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.12       Farms in the northern section of the project area are generally
larger than those in the southern section, but all display the national
characteristics of being highly fragmented.  Farm holdings average about 3.5
acres in the northern and 2.5 acres in the southern part of the project area.
Share cropping is widely practised. The landless are estimated to be about
50% of the population. The average number of fragments per farm is ten to
twelve. Farmers cooperatives, therefore, are a pre-requisite for groundwater
development.
IRDP/TCCA/KSS in the Project Area
3.13       The project would cover 35 thanas of the Dacca, Mymensingh and
Kishoreganj districts.  So far TCCAs have been established in 27 thanas , out
of which 5 are quite new. There are 7,284 villages in the project area and
4,276 KSS have been organized in 3,197 of them. Total membership of KSS is
128,270 or 13% of the total farm families. The number of members per KSS is
roughly 30. The total equity of these TCCA/KSS is Tk. 12 million or Tk. 94
per member. Loans totaling Tk. 98.6 million have been extended to these KSS
since their inception, Tk. 61.5 million have been repaid (62.4% recovery) and
of the remaining Tk. 37.1 million, Tk. 27.7 million is over due (all less than
3 years old) and Tk. 9.4 are current loans.
3.14       As indicated in para 2.19 IRDP ranks TCCAs and KSS by five different
categories reflecting their performance. The classification of TCCA and KSS
in the project area is given below:
Category           No. of            No. of KSS            Without              Total
TCCA 1/       With Irrigation        Irrigation
A                 4                 474                 507                  981
B                 7                 485                 486                  971
C                 3                 29 5                403                 698
D                 4                 322                 406                 728
E                 4                 3 54                 544                 898
Total              22                1930                2346                 4276
1/   Five new TCCAs have not yet been classified.
The above data indicate that more than 50% of the A and B category KSS do not
have any kind of irrigation facilities. It is likely that KSS in other categ-
ories will improve their performance once irrigation equipment is available.
Moreover, out of the 1930 KSS which have some kind of irrigation, only 917 have
DTWs. Hence, there is great potential for DTW sales among the existing TCCA/KSS
in the project area. Finally, when the recently created five new TCCA start
functioning, and eight more are established in the near future, demand of DTW
by KSS groups is expected to increase further. By the end of the project
period about 8,850 KSS would have been set up in the project area. Thus, it



- 16 -
is likely that there will be sufficient demand for DTW in the project area.
As the sale of DTW to farmers has started in 1979 only, no adequate data are
available to carry out a more systematic demand analysis. Experience gained
so far in selling DTW indicates that demand has always exceeded supply. As
mentioned earlier, (para 3.01) in case of a shortage of demand, expansion
into adjacent regions would be considered. Farmers' demand for DTW would
be kept under constant review during project implementation.
Agricultural Situation
3.15      The main crops are rice, jute, oilseed, wheat and vegetables.  Overall
the project area is a deficit region for food grains.  Transplanted aman which
is grown on the extensive shallow flooded lands of the old Brahmaputra, the
northern piedmont plains, and the poorly drained level terraces and shallow
flooded valleys of the Madhupur tract, is the most important crop. The normal
cropping pattern is for transplanted aman to be preceded by aus and some jute
on the slightly deeper flooded areas. Broadcast aus is the principal crop on
the well drained soils of the Madhupur tract and on the higher ridge land along
the old Brahmaputra flood plain. Without irrigation, a considerable portion
of land is under fallow in the dry season. hence, great potential exists to
increase cropping intensities by introducing irrigation facilities for the
production of boro rice and wheat.  The existing cropping pattern and average
yields together with those projected under the project are summarized in tables
6.1 and 6.2.
Communications
3.16         The project area has a reasonable internal network of roads,
railways, and waterways. Communications with Dacca are also good. Plans are
currently being implemented to connect all the district capitals to Dacca by
the all-weather national highway system. The stretch between Dacca and
Mymensingh is being constructed. This connection will considerably shorten
the travel time between the two cities. Secondary roads are the responsi-
bility of local government authorities, who have limited resources and
therefore do little regular maintenance. Most of these roads are not of
all-weather standard; consequently, much of the project area is inaccessible
to motorised transport during the monsoon. The numerous rivers crossing the
project area are of great importance for internal transport. In the wet
season much of the countryside is flooded and access to many villages is
possible only by boat. Transportation of bulky agricultural commodities,
such as jute, is mainly by waterway. Railway communications are relatively
good with both Mymensingh and Kishoreganj connected by rail to Dacca.
Electric Power
3.17         The project area lies in the eastern zone of the electricity
grid system of Bangladesh. Spare capacity exists in the system, which could
be used to supply power to some of the deep tubewells in the area. However,
power distribution is a problem; electrification of the deep tubewells in the
area would be expensive and is sure to take a long time. There is also a
problem with the reliability of supply. It is reported that farmers with
wells powered by electric motors complain of voltage fluctuations resulting
in frequent interruptions of pump operation.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01      The project primarily aims at increasing foodgrain production in
the project area through (a) increasing the irrigated area from 345,000 acres
in 1980-81 to about 665,000 acres in 1985-86 by commissioning 4,000 DTh',
(b) strengthening of TCCA/KSS (rural cooperative institution), (c) ensuring
that farmers have access to essential production inputs and credit. The
project would also provide information to improve the design of wells and
distribution systems, increase the efficiency of implementing agencies and
provide additional groundwater data. The proposed project is an integral part
of the Medium-Term Food Production Plan (MTFPP) which aims at attaining food
self-sufficiency by 1984-85.
4.02      The project design is based on experience gained from a number of
ongoing projects in Bangladesh and, in particular, upon the recently com-
pleted IDA financed Northwest Tubwell Project (Credit 341-BD), the ongoing
Rural Development Project (Credit 631-BD), and upon recommendations of the
Joint GOB/IDA Minor Irrigation Sector (MIR) and the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP) Reviews.
B. Project Description
4.03      The project would include:
(a) procurement and installation of 4,000 two-cusec deep tubewells
including screens, casing, and pumpsets, and spare parts for
maintaining these wells;
(b) procurement of 25 reverse circulation rotary drilling rigs
and auxiliary equipment for these and 45 other drilling rigs
presently owned by BADC;
(c)  strengthening of BADC's capacity to plan, design and super-
vise installation of DTW by providing additional staff,
office facilities, vehicles, and monitoring and testing
equipment;
(d) technical assistance - providing about 25 man-years of con-
sultancy time for (i) BADC staff training (ii) pilot studies
to solve some special problems related to well design and
operation, (iii) regional groundwater studies outside the
project area, particularly in the Sylhet and Comilla districts,
and (iv) training for IRDP staff and agricultural extension
services;



- 18 -
(e)  strengthening of the IkDP and TCCA/KSS system for organizing
farmers' groups and expanding the Irrigation Management Program
(IMP) through the project area, by providing incremental staff,
office facilities, housing, vehicles for field officers, and
training of thana staff and KSS members;
(f)  rural credit - the provision of medium term credit through
BB and SB and to TCCA/KSS for purchase and installation of DTW.
(g)  evaluation - providing consultant time to monitor and evaluate
the progress of the project by establishing base line data,
and making mid- and full-term impact assessments.
(h)  procurement of diesel fuel - to ensure fuel supply for IDA
financed Minor Irrigation equipment.
C. Detailed Features
Provision and Installation of Deep Tubewells (Annex 2, Tables 2-7)
4.04      BADC would procure and install through local contractors 4,000 deep
tubewells in the project area. Spare parts, sufficient for five years main-
tenance and repairs would also be provided. In addition, 200 spare diesel
motors and turbine pumps would be procured for standby. Well components
would include locally made steel casings and imported screens. 3,600 of the
tubewells would be equipped with line shaft turbine pumps powered by diesel
engines and the remainder would be electrically powered. The project would
also finance the construction of transmission lines and transformers to
connect the latter to the national electricity grid.
Provision of Drilling Rigs (Annex 2 - Table 8)
4.05      To assist BADC in attaining its objective to install targeted
number of DTW in SYFP, it would be necessary to provide additional rigs
and auxillary equipment. The project would, therefore, provide for (a) 25
reverse circulation rotary drilling rigs; (b) 140 tractors and trailers
suitable for hauling drill pipe and casing; (c) 55 well testing and develop-
ment pumpsets; (d) 37 compressors (mainly 100 psi, 300 cfm); (e) 70 small
generators (about 5 KVA); and (f) 85 welding sets. These items would be
imported to Bangladesh by BADC which would then sell them to selected drilling
contractors. Assurances have been obtained from GOB that adequate arrangements
would be made to provide MT credit to drilling contractors.
Strengthening BADC (Annex 2 Tables 9 and 10)
4.06         To strengthen BADC's capacity to plan, design and supervise the
installation of deep tubewells and to carry out the proposed hydrogeological
studies the project would expand BADC's technical staff, provide consultants
and supply various items of hydrogeological equipment. Salaries, allowances,
transport and office facilities would be financed for the following additional



- 19 -
BADC staff: (a) Superintending Engineer with supporting staff in Dacca; he
would be responsible for implementing BADC's component of the project; (b) 3
Executive Engineers to be stationed in Mymensingh, Kishoreganj and Dacca;
they would oversee the project activities in their regions; (c) 9 Assistant
Engineers, three of whom would come under each Executive Engineer; (d) 50
sectional officers who would provide field supervision of tubewell installa-
tion. Appointment of the Executive Engineers would be a condition of
effectiveness.
Technical Assistance (Annex 2 Tables 11 and 12)
4.07       The project would provide the services of a consultant team consist-
ing of the following specialists: (a) team leader (groundwater engineer)
for 48 months; (b) irrigation engineer for 36 months; (c) hydrologist for
44 months; (d) field engineer for 36 months; (e) electrical and geomechanical
engineer for 36 months; (f) modelling specialist for 12 months; (g) hydrologist
for 6 months; (h) cooperative adviser for 44 months; and (i) irrigation agri-
culturist for 36 months. Overall, technical assistance would require about 300
man/months of foreign consultant services and have an estimated total cost
of US$3.3 million. The average man/month cost, including salary, costs, fees,
international travel and subsistence is expected to be about US$11,000. In
addition to these personnel costs, the contract would include the cost of
vehicles, monitoring, training and office equipment, as well as funds for
studies and investigations. The expatriate personnel input would comprise
senior level high caliber expertise in the fields of irrigation and groundwater
technology as well as cooperative development and agricultural extension work.
BADC and IRDP would assign a counterpart engineer to each of the expatriate
experts for training and assisting with the consultant's work load. Agreed
detailed TOR of consultants are given in Annex 2, Appendix 1.
4.08       Ground Water Studies.  The project would provide for groundwater
studies in the project area and for regional groundwater studies in Comilla
district and part of Sylhet district (IBRD Map No. 18189). These studies
would include exploratory drilling, test tubewell construction, and pump
testing. The project would finance the procurement and operation of hydro-
geological equipment necessary for analyzing the information collected from
tubewell construction, and essential for the studies to be carried out within
and outside the project area. This would include: (a) 100 hydrolytic
conductivity meters; (b) 100 standard sieve sets; (c) 150 water level indi-
cators; (d) 20 portable chemical laboratories; (e) 3 sets of geophysical
logging equipment; (f) 6 water samplers; (g) 15 sets of survey equipment. In
addition, materials (pipe and screening) for 18 piesometers, to be used for
interference pumping tests and later for monitoring, would also be provided.
For the study areas outside the project area, funds would be provided for the
execution of: (a) 40 long term pumping tests; (b) 20 exploratory boreholes;
(c) full chemical analyses of up to 550 water samples. Construction of say,
40 test deep tubewells will be necessary in these study areas. These would
be drawn from the 4000 tubewells of the project and would be converted to
permanent irrigation wells, if successful.



- 20 -
4.09       Pilot Scheme to Study Improved Distribution System:  In many minor
irrigation installations in Bangladesh substantial conveyance losses occur
due to poor distribution. The project would install lined channel and piped
distribution systems for about 40 DTW in the project area. The objectives
of this pilot scheme would be to (a) measure conveyance losses under lined
and unlined channels and also with and without pipe distribution system;
(b) estimate cost-effectiveness of these installations for optimum use of
irrigation water. BADC would appoint an Executive Engineer in charge of
this work under the guidance of the consulting Irrigation Engineer.
4.10       Experimental Program to Test Tubewell Designs.  The project would
include a pilot program to test alternative deep tubewell designs. In some
areas, slimmer naturally developed wells might be the most efficient design;
overall there might be scope for the use of cheaper plastic materials for
casings and screens. Also there have been some interesting attempts at
developing cheaper types of deep well pumps recently; these should be tested
under Bangladesh conditions. All experimental tubewells constructed under
this program would be converted to permanent production wells, if successful.
Assurances have been obtained that detailed plans for the testing program
would be submitted for IDA review by June 30, 1983 and Executive Engineer
in charge of the Scheme would be appointed by December 31, 1982.
Strengthening of IRDP/TCCA/KSS Program (Annex 2, Tables 13 to 14)
4.11       The project would provide office equipment, vehicles and incremental
staff at the IRDP headquarters, district and TCCA levels. By the end of the
project period, it is expected that about 8,850 KSS with a membership of about
400,000 would be established as against the existing 4276 KSS. Membership per
KSS is expected to increase from 30 to 50 at the end of the project period.
Because of the projected increase in the number of KSS, their membership and
increased workload of implementing the Irrigation Management Program for 4000
DTWs by the end of the project period, the project would provide the following
incremental staff: one Deputy Director, one Assistant Director, one accountant
with other support staff for the headquarters; 3 Deputy Project Directors at
district headquarters (one for each district) and 35 Deputy Project officers
at the TCCA level. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that four
Deputy Directors had been appointed.   In addition, the project would provide
one vehicle for headquarters, 3 vehicles for the 3 districts and 38 motor-
cycles. (3 for districts and 35 for TCCAs) and 500 bicycles for thanas.
4.12       Training for IMP.  To ensure optimum use of the irrigation equipment
in the project area, the project would meet the cost of training necessary for
carrying out the Irrigation Management Program. This training would be held
at district and thana levels.
4.13       Thana Facilities.  The existing thana facilities in the project area
are detailed in Annex 3 Table 2.  The project would provide for TCCA office
buildings, housing for TCCA/KSS and other project related staff.



- 21 -
4.14      Staff office facilities are essential for successful project imple-
mentation. At present only 16 TCCAs out of the existing 27 have office
facilities. The project, therefore, would provide financing for the con-
struction of 19 TCCA buildings. The design and construction would follow
the standard now in use which provides for a one story building which is
satisfactory.
4.15      Staff accommodation is of high priority as in most thanas private
housing for staff to rent is limited. The staffing requirements for a full
TCCA/KSS program varies between 18 to 26 officers per thana, including IRDP
staff at the thana level and other project related staff such as BADC and DAE.
At present, there are only 74 twin quarters in the project area. To provide a
minimum of 4 twin quarters per thana, the project would construct 66 additional
twin quarters in the project area. IRDP staff and project related staff would
be given priority in the allocation of these quarters.
Rural Credit
4.16      The project would provide medium term credit to TCCA/KSS to finance
most of KSS/farmers' contribution to the financing of DTW. IDA funds would
be passed on to the Bangladesh Bank, which in return would refinance medium
term credit extended by Sonali Bank to TCCA/KSS. Assurances have been
obtained from GOB that lending terms and conditions would be as detailed in
paragraph 5.09 and schedule "A". These would form part of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOB and Bangladesh Bank and a Participation Agreement
between Bangladesh Bank and Sonali Bank. Lending terms and conditions of the
credit component under this project would be similar to those agreed upon in
the recently approved "Agricultural Credit Project" (Cr. 1142-BD).
Project Evaluation
4.17      The project would provide funds for evaluating project performance.
A recognized institute like the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
(BIDS) would be contracted for this purpose. Project evaluation would involve
three reports, a benchmark survey at the start of the project; a mid-project
review and an evaluation report at the end of the project. Detailed plans for
project evaluation would be submitted for IDA review by March 31, 1983.
Diesel Fuel (Annex 2 - Appendix 2)
4.18      To ensure that irrigation facilities fielded under IDA-supported
projects will not be affected by a shortage of diesel fuel during the FY83
irrigation season, the project would provide the foreign exchange needed
(US$10 M) to finance the import requirements for diesel fuel (about 29,000
tons) for all minor irrigation equipment expected to operate under any of
IDA's irrigation projects during FY83. This component of the project is part
of IDA's contribution to alleviate the growing shortage of foreign exchange
in Bangladesh. In fact, uncertainties in diesel availability would not only
affect foodgrain production during the FY83 dry season, but also have a
detrimental impact on farmers' demand for additional equipment being made
available, in particular DTW to be provided under this project.



- 22 -
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.19       Total project costs are estimated at US$142 M equivalent including
US$9.5 M in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$92 M or about 65% of total project costs. Estimated costs to be
financed by IDA and GOB are based on price levels prevailing in October 1981
adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to expected mid-
1982 levels. Estimated costs to be financed by ODA and ADAB are based on
prevailing mid-1982 price levels in the United Kingdom and Australia.
physical contingencies included in the estimate amount to 5.5% of base costs.
Contingencies included for forecasted price escalation over the four year
project period amount to 16.5% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
If costs for imported diesel fuel, for which no physical and price contin-
gencies have been calculated, are excluded (see para. 4.18) total contingen-
cies would represent 25% of the base costs of the remaining project components.
This amount is considered to be adequate to cover future price increases and
other project uncertainties. Project costs are detailed in Annex 2 and
summarized in Table 4.1.
(Table 4.1 - Summary of Project Cost)
4.20       The project would be financed by several foreign and local sources
as summarized in the following table.
(Table 4.2 - Financing Plan)



- 23 -
Table 4.1 Summary of Project Cost
Item                    Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign           Total    % of Total
(Tk million)                  (US$ million)
A. Procurement of 4,000          55       871      926      2.82       44.66            47.48        41.08
DTWs including spare
parts
B. Installation of 4,000        567       188      755     29.07        9.64            38.71        33.50
DTWs
C. Drilling rigs and             37       148      185      1.90        7.58             9.48         8.20
auxiliary equipment
D. Capital and incremental       23         9       32       1.18       0.46             1.64         1.43
operating costs
for BADC
E. Capital and incremental       51        25       76       2.62        1.28            3.90         3.38
operating costs for IRDP
F. Consultancy services          10        69       79      0.51        3.54             4.05         3.5t
including training
and studies
G. Project evaluation             4         2        o       .21        v.10             o.31         V.2b
H. Imported diesel fuel                   195      195                                     IC 10      8.65
Total Base Cost            747    1,507   2,254       38.31       77.26          115.57       100
Physical contingencies 1/   45          80     125       2.30        4.11            6.41       105.50
Price contingencies 2/       181       208     389       9.28       10.67           19.95       122.80
Total Project Cost         973    1,795   2,768       49.89       92.04          141.93       123.80
1/ Physical contingencies are based on assessments made by the different financing agencies
concerning the uncertainties of the project components to be financed by them.
2/ Price contingencies reflect projections made by the different financing agencies
concerning the expected inflation rates in Australia, Bangladesh, United Kingdom and
world markets. See details in individual cost tables in Annex 2.



- 24 -
"TABLE 4.2 Financing Plan
(US$ Million)7     -
GOB   Sonali    KSS    ODA    ADAB    IDA    Total
Farmers                          Including
Contingencies
A. Procurement of 4,000                              26.92            29.84    56.76
DTWs including spare
parts (c.i.f. Chittagong)
B. Installation of          23.43  2.54    2.85                       22.87    51.69
4,000 DTWs
C. Purchase of drilling    2.23                              9.00               11.23
rigs and auxiliary
equipment
D. BADC                      0.78                                      1.32      2.10
E.IRDP                       1.26                                      3.56      4.82
F. Consultancy services    0.70                        4.22                      4.92
including training
and studies
G. Project evaluation                                                  0.41      0.41
H. Imported diesel                                                    10.00    10.00
fuel
Total Financing        28.40  2.54    2.85    31.14  9.00    68.00   141.93



- 25 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$68 14 would be made to GOB on standard terms
and would cover about 51% of total project co,t net of taxes and duties
(US$132.5 M). IDA financing would contribute to all project components
except consultancy services and drilling equipment. IDA would mainly finance
(a) the procurement of DTh components; (b) MT credit to be distributed to
TCGA/KSS for the purchase of DTW; 1/ and (c) the importation of diesel fuel.
British grant aid (ODA) of about US$31.1 M1 is earmarked to finance the
procurement of DTW components (c.i.f. Chittagong) and the foreign exchange
costs of consultancy services including studies and training. Australian
grant aid of about US$9 lvi will be allocated to the purchase of drilling rigs
and auxiliary equipment. Thus, foreign aid would total US$108 M and cover
about 82% of total project cost, net of taxes and duties. It would finance
all foreign exchange expenditures (US$92 M1) and about 40% of local costs
(US$40.5 M); the latter would be financed by IDA.
4.21      The balance of project financing (US$34 Mv) would be covered by
KSS/tarmers, Sonali Bank and GOB. Most of the local financing would be
required to finance the construction cost for the 4,000 DTW to be installed
during project implementation. About 55% of these installation costs would
be financed by KSS/farmers, as farmers are expected to make an increasing
contribution to the financing of DTWs in the future (see details in para 7.07).
KSS/farmers would contribute 10% to the estimated cost of a DTW in the form
of a cash-downpayment, ttLe remaining 90% would be financed by a medium term
loan extended by the sonali bank.  Sonali bank contribution, estimated at
10% of the mT ioai,, would come trom its own resources, the remaining 90%
would be refinancec by the Bangladesh Bank (BB), which in turn would be
refinanced by GOb/IDA (see details in para. 5.09). GOb would execute a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BB under which it would on-lend US$22.87 X
equivalent to BB on terms and conditions described in Schedule A. Refinancing
of SB would be subject to the completion of d Participation Agreement between
BB and SB. It would be a condition of effectiveness that both agreements were
satisfactory to IDA and tiad been properly executed.  The remaining 45% of DTW
installation costs (USj23.43) woula be iinanced by GOB counterpart funds
and included in BADC's annual budgetary ailocations. Moreover, BADC would
receive cash down-payments from KSS/farmers aO well as the amount of MT credit
extended by SB to TCCA/KSS tor the purchase oI DTN.  Tnese runids would enable
BADC to pay drilling contractors and cover all ott,e iocad. inistallation costs
(i.e. transportation of DTW equipment on site).
4.22      The balance ot GOB counterpart runds (US*4.971  4ouIO _uver part ot
the local costs of the remaining components of the projecL. IThus, public (GOB)
financing would amount to US$28.40 1, or US$19.90 M1 if taxes adud duties are
deducted.  If private funds of US*5.39 X (farmers and Sonali Bank) are added
to those of GOb, the implementation ot the DTW II project would require the
mobilization of US$25.29 Mv of public ana private savings representing about
19% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.  This amount is believed
to be an adequate local contribution, considering GOB's continued difficult
budgetary situation as well as the limited development prospects of the
country in the medium-term ruture.  iunds would be made available to the
1/   As  `T Credit covers oLi\ IaDuL DUa jl Etih inStallaLon cost and none of
the procurement expenditures or iT; Lomponcnts kc.i.r. Chittagong), no
doublv tinancini- is invoiveL.



- 26 -
implementing agencies in the form of budgetary allocations. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that a Project Proforma (PP) satisfactory to IDA
had been approved by GOB and Annual Development Program funds for year 1 lhad
been allocated.
Procurement
4.23      Delays in procurement of deep tubewell components and equipment
have created unusually long "lead ins" to the implementation of past and on-
going projects. To avoid such delays, draft tender documents were prepared
and mutually agreed between IDA and GOB immediately after appraisal. Procure-
ment of goods and services out of the funds provided by agencies other than
IDA would be subject to terms and conditions agreed upon between GOB and
concerned lending agencies.
4.24      Tenders for Well Drilling and Installation (US$23.21 MvI).  Contracts
for well construction would not be suitable for ICB because the work would be
too small-scale and dispersed to attract international interest. Drilling
contracts would be let for the number of DTW required in each geographical
area (thanas). Each contractor would be awarded contracts to construct about
40-60 wells (each costing US$5,800). The contract for well construction
would therefore be let following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA. The tendering would be done by BADC which would "post
qualify" the tenderer to determine the number of wells each tenderer would
be qualified to contract for. Ex-post review by IDA would be undertaken of
a 25 percent sample of these contracts.
4.25      Tenders for Deep Tubewells Components (US$29.8 iMi).  The DTW compo-
nents would include 1,150 diesel engines plus spares; 3,600 turbine pumps
and gear boxes; upper well casings, well screens as well as reducer and bale
plugs for 4,000 DTW. The DTW components would be purchased under ICB proce-
dures. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% in concurrence
with IDA guidelines. Tender documents for DTW components exceeding US$100,000
would be submitted for IDA review.
4.26      Vehicles (US$0.29 Mi) would be purchased under ICB procedures.
4.27      (a)  Civil Works (US$3.8 M) would not be suitable for ICB because
they would include relatively small simple structures widely distributed
throughout the project area. Construction of thana facilities would be
through contracts with local contractors let under Rural Works Program's
Competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.  Ex-post
reviews would be undertaken of a 25% sample of these contracts.
(b)  Civil Works (US$0.8 M) for channel lining would be carried
out by force account.
4.28      Furniture, and office equipment (US$0.19 M) would be procured by
local competitive bidding. Of-the-shelf items costing less than US$25,000
and not more than US$200,000 in aggregate would be procured through normal
Government procedures.



- 27 -
4.29      Diesel (US$10 M).  The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BDC) has
sole responsibility for importing refined petroleum products and would procure
diesel fuel for BADC. Considering the present state of the oil market and
the limited volume of diesel to be financed under the credit, procurement
under ICB would not be practicable. Procurement would therefore be by
negotiated contract, which would require IDA approval. To simplify procure-
ment and to obtain the maximum possible amount of diesel fuel under the
credit, procurement would be in one tranche early in the project.
4.30      Each agency (BADC and IRDP) would be responsible for its procure-
ment under the project and would maintain records of equipment and services
procured under the project for preparing applications for reimbursement from
IDA.
Disbursements
4.31      Disbursements would be made against:
A.   DTW equipment; vehicles, motorcycles; bicycles and office
equipment (US$26.40 M);
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign exchange;
(ii) locally manufactured; 100% of ex-factory cost;
(iii) locally procured (off-the-shelf); 65% of local expenditures.
B.   Civil Works:
(i) construction of office buildings, staff houses and sheds;
90% of local expenditures (US$2.90 M);
(ii) command area development (channel lining and piping);
90% of local expenditures (US$0.50 M);
C.   Amounts disbursed by Bangladesh Bank (BB) to refinance MT loans
made by Sonali Bank; 100% of local expenditures (US$17.70 M).
D.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation; 100% of local expenditures
(US$U.20 M).
E.   BADC and IRDP salaries for local project staff; and IMP
training; 60% of local expenditures (US$0.50 M).
F.   Diesel fuel; 100% of foreign expenditures (US$10.0 M).
G.   Unallocated; (US$9.80 M).
Disbursements under (a), (b(i)), and (f) above would be fully documented.
Disbursements under (b(ii)), (d), (e) would be made under statement of expen-
ditures, certified by the Superintendent Engineer, BADC. Disbursements under
(c) would be made against Bangladesh Bank certified statements of loans made



- 28 -
by Sonali Bank and refinanced by BB. BB would verify each application for
refinance by SB which would issue a completion certificate for each completed
loan and BB would carry out sample checks. The supporting documentation would
not be submitted to IDA but retained at a central location and made available
for inspection by IDA staff on request. Participating agencies have adequate
administrative and accounting capabilities to prepare and maintain SOE records,
including facilities to keep them available for inspection. Expenditures
disbursed against certified statements of expenditures would be audited
annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. The sc'aedule of esti-
mated disbursements is shown in Annex 4, Table 1. It is expected that dis-
bursements would be completed by December 1986, approximately six months
after the end of the project. Disbursements differ from the Bank's historical
disbursement profiles, as about 90% of project costs would consist of equip-
ment, the procurement of which is expected to be completed within three years.
Disbursements are, therefore, expected to be made at a faster pace than
indicated in the Bank's profiles.
Accounts and Audit
4.32      Assurances have been obtained that BADC and IRDP would maintain
records satisfactory to IDA, to identify physical and financial transactions
relating to the project. Project accounts would be prepared annually by the
chief Engineer DTW and the Director General, IRDP. Assurances have been
obtained from GOB that Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit these accounts
as well as statements of expenditures, where applicable, and that audited
accounts together with auditor's comments would be sent to IDA within six
months of the close of the fiscal year. Auditing procedures of participating
institutions are satisfactory but audit of TCCA/KSS is not up to date.
Assurances have been obtained from GOB to: (a) present by March 1983 an
inventory of TCCA/KSS in the project area showing the date of the last audit
for each, (b) work out a phased plan for bringing the audit up to date by
June 30, 1985, and (c) submit a quarterly report on progress of the audit
program.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The following government agencies would be involved in implement-
ing the project. The Ministry of Agriculture would have two agencies partici-
pating in the project area: (i) BADC would be responsible for: procuring
well equipment and organizing and supervising DTW drilling, constructing and
commissioning; carrying out groundwater studies and maintaining and updating
the groundwater model; and providing technical support to TCCA/KSS in Command
Area Development (CAD); (ii) Department of Agriculture and Extension would be
responsible for supplying extension services in the project area.



- 29 -
5.02      The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
would have two agencies participating in the project area. (i) IRDP would
be responsible for organizing and supervising the operation and management of
TCCA/KSS and, jointly with BADC and Agricultural Department be responsible for
CAD through expansion of IMP in the project area. (ii) Rural Works Program
(RWP) would be responsible for constructing thana facilities.
5.03      Bangladesh Bank would be responsible for refinancing the Sonali Bank
for project lending to TCCA. The Sonali Bank is the lending agency for the
TCCA/KSS system and has an adequate network of branches in the project area.
Project Coordination
5.04      At the national level a small Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
would be set up comprising:
-  The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry  - Chairman
-  The Chairman BADC                                       - Member
-  The Director General - IRDP                             - Member
-  The Superintendent Engineer RWP                         - Member
-  The Representative of Bangladesh Bank                   - Member
-  The Representative of Sonali Bank                       - Member
-  The Chief Engineer DTW, BADC                            - Executive
Secretary
The PCC would be responsible for coordinating project activities. The Chief
Engineer DTW would be responsible for overall project implementation. The
Superintending Engineer BADC in charge of the project, and the Director of
Field Services IRDP, would be responsible for implementing and reporting
progress and handling reimbursement procedures for their respective compo-
nents. At the district level coordination would be through a District
Project Executive Committee (DPEC) chaired by the Deputy Commissioner of the
District. The members would include District Extension Officer, Regional
Representative Sonali Bank, Project Director, IRDP; and Executive Engineer,
BADC as Executive Secretary. At the thana level coordination would be done
by TCCA. Establishment of the PCC, and DPECS would be a condition of effec-
tiveness.
Implementation Schedule
5.05      The proposed implementation schedule is shown in chart (WB 23534).
The project would be completed within 4 years. BADC would install 400 DTW in
year 1 and 1200 DTW in each following year. Based on its experience and with
the assistance from consultants to be provided under the project, BADC would
be able to successfully handle the technical problems in tubewell siting,
such as sufficient command area, suitable site, risk of flooding, hydro-
geological conditions. All DTWs would be installed by local drilling con-
tractors. BADC would import the drilling equipment and then sell it to
contractors. Based on past performance, it is evident that a sufficient
pool of drillers exists in Bangladesh. BADC has more than 125 pre-qualified
drilling contractors. Each contractor would be allocated a contract for the



- 30 -
construction of 40-60 wells in a specific geographical area (thanas) of the
project. For details on drilling capacity see Annex 1 pages 61-64. however,
the following actions would be necessary for timely implementation.
(a)  Improving Drilling Capacity.  The production capacity of
the local drilling contractors would not be sufficient to
install DTW at the required rate without the timely
supply of the incremental drilling machinery and auxiliary
equipment to be provided under the project. BADC would
ensure that equipment be procured on time, well components
be available to contractors on time, and site selection
proceed well in advance of drilling requirements.
(b)  Training BADC Staff.  To ensure timely implementation,
training programs would be organized for the newly hired
BADC staff, particularly for the divisional officers in
site supervision. It is proposed to establish a training
center under the control of an Executive Engineer where
lectures and demonstrations would be held; manuals would
be prepared which would lay out site supervision duties in
a step by step manner. BADC and IRDP would also ensure
that training programs in IMP procedures would be carried
out for all concerned staff (para 2.12).
Group Formation and Site Selection
5.06      The first step would be to establish farmer groups with the assis-
tance of IRDP. Only TCCA/KSS groups preferably A or B category, would be
given the right of first users. However, should the response be inadequate,
the policy would be reviewed jointly by GOB/IDA. The farmers' group would
then apply for the purchase of a DTW in a prescribed form to TCCA. TCCA in
collaboration with IRDP and BADC would scrutinize the application as to the
credit worthiness of the KSS and jointly ensure that the site selction criteria
are adhered to. The difficulty of BADC and IRDP in selecting suitable well
sites in advance of drilling has been one of the major causes of delay. It is,
therefore, important that site selection procedures be improved. The suggested
site selection criteria are: (a) DTW should not be located in areas which, in
accordance with criteria laid down by GOB, are more suitable for STW; (b)
command area for 2-cusec capacity DTW should include a minimum of 80 acres of
land; and (c) topography of the command area should be suitable for delivery
of water to all participating farmers. To ensure optimum use of DTW, it is
essential that the water distribution system be designed soon after the siting
of DTW is completed. The proposed command area should then be surveyed and
the lay-out of the distribution system - indicating the feeders and field
channels - be finalized within one to two months of the selection of the
tubewell site and the construction of the distribution system be completed
in about one month after the installation of DTW.
Loan Application Procedures
5.07      Loan application procedures would be that (a) KSS would apply for
a DTW in the prescribed form along with a 10X downpayment but not less than
Tk 10,000; (b) on receipt of the downpayment, the Assistant Engineer/Sectional



- 31 -
Officer of BADC in collaboration with IRDP would determine the feasibility ot
the DTW as outlined in para 5.06 above, and would then send the application to
the Executive Engineer for allotment of DTW; (c) simultaneously the TCCA would
process the application with Sonali Bank for granting the loan. The number
of DTW to be installed in a given year would be pre-determined before the
start of each year. The receipt of applications with downpayment would be
restricted to the estimated number of DTW to be installed in that year plus
10% and DTW would be allocated on a first come first serve basis. The price
to be paid by KSS for DTW would be the price applicable on the date on which
the application and downpayment are received by BADC.
Operation and Maintenance of DTW
5.08      There have been very few mechanical problems with tubewell pump
and engine operations and maintenance because (a) most of DTW have been in
operation for a relatively short time, (b) few of the tubewells are used
intensively (say pumping more than 1000 nours/yr), and (c) with a substantial
percentage of the DTW not being pumped at all, there is a ready source ot
pump and engine spares available. Maintenance and repairs of pumps and
motors have traditionally been done by BADC. However, under the privatisation
policy of GOB, these functions are to be handed over to the private sector.
As agreed between GOB and IDA under the Imports Program Credit X, BADC would
sell spares to the private sector and, wherever BADC undertakes repairs, it
would charge full cost for spares and services so as not to undercut the
private sector. IRDP and BADC staff would continue to work with irrigation
groups to ensure implementation of IMP procedures for high level utilization
of the equipment.
Flow of Medium Term and Short Term Credit
5.09      The successful implementation of the project would require the dis-
tribution of Tk 496 million of MT credit and Tk 615 million of ST credit 1/ by
the Sonali Bank (SB) to participating TCCA/KSS. As mentioned before, (para
2.24) Bangladesh Bank (BB) provides a 3% interest subsidy on SB medium-term
lending operations. however, interest subsidization would not resolve SB
eventual liquidity problems and thus ensure an adequate and uninterrupted
flow of medium-term credit to TCCA/KSS. It is, therefore, propbsed that all
medium-term loans extended to TCCA/KSS under this project be eligible for BB
refinancing under terms and conditions similar to those agreed upon in the
"Agricultural Credit Project" (Cr. 1142-BD) and the IFAD financed "Southwest
Rural Development Project" (Loan 73BA). BB would thus finance about 80% of
the DTW selling price, whereas the balance would be covered by SB (10%) and
participating KSS/farmers (10%).  Medium-term credit terms and conditions as
well as participating agencies contributions are summarized in the following
schedule:
1/   At full development in year 7; in current terms.



- 32 2
Annual Interest Rates
KSS loans to final borrowers                       14.0%
TCCA to KSS                                        10.5%
SB refinance to TCCA                                6.5%
BB refinance to SB                                  4.0%
GOB loans to BB for refinancing SB                  3.0%
IDA credit to GOB                               Standard
Contribution
Farmer's contribution                                10%
TCCA/KSS loans to final borrowers                    90%
SB refinance to TCCA/KSS                            100%
BB refinance of SB loans to TCCA/KSS                 90%
GOB on-lending to BB                                100% of BB refinance
IDA disbursements                                   100% of BB refinance
5.10      Interest charged to final borrowers would not be less than 14% which
would be in line with interest rates presently charged by commercial banks
in other sectors (12%) and about 2% above the projected inflation rates.
Because of possible changes in inflation rates, consultations on interest
rates would be undertaken between GOB and IDA from time to time. Interest
spreads of 2 1/2% to SB for refinancing TCCA/KSs and 7 1/2% for TCCA/KSS
would cover lending costs and ensure reasonable returns to participating
agencies. The loan repayment period would be nine years including one year's
grace on principal. Installment repayments between SB and BB would coincide
approximately with agreed collections from ultimate borrowers (see details
in Schedule A). These credit proposals are considered sound because (a) the
farmers' financial participation would be an incentive to efficient use
of DTWs in the future, (b) Sonali's contribution would ensure that loans
would be properly administered and recovery standards kept at strict, but
reasonable levels, and lastly (c) IDA financing of credit would avoid the
constraint of GOB's national credit ceiling, as foreign exchange financed
credit would not fall within the purview of this credit ceiling.
5.11      The installation of 4,000 DTWs in the project area together with the
adoption of the Irrigation hanagement Program would require the distribution
of ST credit, which would, indeed, be essential to achieve the full benefits
of the project. However, as described earlier (see para 2.25) SB's eligi-
bility criteria for TCCA/KSS are extremely strict because of a lack of either
refinancing by BB or government guarantee. The application of these eligi-
bility criteria is causing hardship to KSS and individual members, as evi-
denced by the decline in borrowing members both as a percentage of total
memberships and in absolute terms. There is thus a need for greater flexi-
bility in the application of loan recovery standards and criteria for dis-
tributing credit to KSS/farmers in the future.  The present rather complex
institutional set-up and policies for rural lending in Bangladesh will be
reviewed by GOB and IDA during coming months. Moreover, considering the
growing financial difficulties of the country, the review would also analyze
the short-term credit requirements for agriculture, which so far have been
met by local public and private funds. ln case foreign financing would be



- 33 -
required, the inclusion of a ST credit component in a future IDA operation
would be considered; the proposed IDA Second Rural Development Project would
be particularly appropriate.  Short-term credit needs for the DTW II project
which will be rather limited during the first year of the project implementa-
tion (Tk 8 million), would then be included in the estimate of the incremental
working capital requirements of the TCCA/KSS system. It is expected that the
joint review and the eventual IDA financing of ST agricultural credit would
contribute to setting up a more flexible and responsive agricultural credit
system in Bangladesh.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Cropping Patterns
6.01      The provision of tubewell irrigation water in the project area would
lead to increased cropping intensity and a shift from low yielding and risky
crops to relatively risk free and high yielding irrigated crops. Rice would
continue to dominate the cropping patterns, but a considerable change would
occur in the relative importance of rice crops. Indeed, the main effect of
irrigation would be to add a boro crop to the present T.aman dominated crop-
ping pattern. Boro would be cultivated mainly as a replacement to B.aus crops
on lands which currently remain fallow during the dry season. Moreover, in
parts of the project area with permeable soils the project would also lead
to a substantial increase in irrigated wheat, replacing oil seeds and B.aus.
Finally the availability of supplementary irrigation during the early and
late monsoon season would enable farmers to use more high-yielding varieties,
invest in more inputs and improve cultural practices, mainly for T.aman crops.
The expected cropping pattern changes in the command area are summarized in the
following table.
Table 6.1 Present and future Cropping Patterns
(000 acres)
Present       Future with Project
B. aus                             166.4                -
T. aus                               -                 04
T. aman (Local)                    96                  64
T. aman (HYV)                      16u                192
Boro (HYV)                                            144
Wheat                                -                176
Oiiseeds                            25.0
Total Uroppcd Ared                44t                 646
Net Cultivated Area               320                 320
Cropping lntensity                 14U0;              200%c



- 34 -
As the Table indicates, the provision of irrigation water by DTW would add a
total of 192,000 acres to the present cropped area reflecting an increase in
cropping intensity from 140% to 200%.  More details of the cropping patterns
area irrigated and phasing of DTW are presented in Annex 5 Table 1.
Yields and Production
6.02      The availability of an assured water supply under the direct control
of KSS/farmers would be expected to change attitudes towards risk. The assured
water supply would make larger and more effective use of high yielding varie-
ties, fertilizers and pesticides more attractive to farmers, while the
strengthening of TCCAs and KSSs would enable an increasing number of farmers
to obtain credit for purchasing inputs. It is therefore expected that farmers
benefitting from the project would achieve increased yields as shown in the
table below.
Table 6.2  Present and Future Average Yields/Acre
and Production Levels in Project Area
Yields (mds/acre)    Production '000 mds
P         W           P             W
B. aus                 10/12        -         1,779
T. aus                   -          31         -           1,984
T. aman (Local)        15/20      20/25       1,710        1,460
T. aman (HYV)          25/30      30/35      4,450         6,300
Boro                     -           40        -           5,760
Wheat                    -           30        -           5,200 (196,944 tons)
Oilseeds                   3        -           77           -
Total Paddy                                  7,939        15,504
(296,124 tons) (578,229 tons)
Increment Paddy                                            7,565
(282,175 tons)
P = Present.
W = Future with Project.
Yield estimates and projections varying according to soil conditions are based
on field surveys in the project area and are considered to be rather conserva-
tive. Substantial further increases in yields should be possible depending
on the efficiency of TCCA/KSS management and other supporting services. Thus,
following project implementation, total paddy production at full development
(year 7) would be about 578,000 tons, or almost double the present production
level of 292,000 tons.  Indeed, incremental paddy production would amount to
282,000 tons. Wheat production would be about 197,000 tons replacing oilseeds
and B. aus. It is assumed that no major changes in cropping patterns and
yields would occur in the project area without the project, as availability
of irrigation water is considered to be a prerequisite for any major agricul-
tural development in the future. The crop yields and crop input requirements
are detailed in Annex 5 Tables 2 and 3.



- 35 -
6.03       Projected Command Area Development.  The area commanded by the project
tubewells will depend on a variety of technical factors, namely crop water
requirements, cropping patterns, water output rates and operating hours of
the tubewells. The major assumptions used in estimating the command area are
as follows:
A.   Crop Irrigation Requirements.  The estimated crop irrigation
requirements of the various crops are shown in Annex 5 Table 4.
These have been calculated on the basis of crop consumptive
use (Annex5 Table 5) and climatic data (Annex 5 Table 6). Crop
irrigation requirements depend upon effective rainfall, land
preparation requirements, available soil moisture and field
application and conveyance efficiency. Considering these
factors the total irrigation requirements for cropping pattern
I (aus/wheat) is estimated at 16.61 inches; for cropping
pattern II (aman/boro) at 36.52 inches; and for cropping
pattern III (aman/wheat) at 16 inches.
B.   Pumping Requirements.  Peak irrigation requirements for boro
crop are about 9 inches each for January, March and April,
equivalent to about 2 inches per week. Thus the maximum area
that can be irrigated by a two cusec tubewell would be about
100 acres requiring pumping of 6 days per week, and 18 hours
per day. With the cultivation of winter wheat requiring only
about one third of irrigation water compared to boro a much
larger area could be irrigated by a DTW. For the estimated
command area under the project (80 acres) the utilization
rates for DTW would vary from 645 to 1,473 hours/year,
reflecting the different cropping patterns and soil conditions
in the project area.
6.04       In addition to the above-mentioned technical factors, the DTW command
area would also depend on social and institutional factors. Due to the small
farm size and the high degree of fragmentation, the average plot in DTW command
areas would range between 0.75 to 1.5 acres.  Hence, the full utilization of
DTW would require the cooperation of a large number of farmers. Past expe-
rience with DTW irrigation schemes indicates that utilization of DTWs has been
poor, averaging less than 60 acres per DTW. However, the Irrigation Management
Pilot Program, carried out under the IDA assisted RDI - Project (Cr. 631-BD)
has demonstrated that cooperatives can rapidly be motivated to improve their
use of irrigation equipment. With the help of this program irrigated areas
increased on average from 52 to 94 acres and so did farmer participation and
crop production (see para 2.12). The proposed project would provide funds for
the IMP program to be implemented in all participating TCCA/KSS, so that the
average command area for a DTW to be financed under this project is estimated
to be 80 acres and participating farmers to number between 60 and 90. Indeed,
the optimal use of DTW is one of the major objectives of the project and
therefore, DTWs would be sold only to those KSS which can ensure the develop-
ment of at least 80 acres per DTW.



- 36 -
Marketing
6.05      It is estimated that between 10 and 20% of the incremental paddy and
wheat production would be absorbed in household consumption, particularly in
the Madhupur Tract, and as wages paid in kind to the additional hired labor.
Thus, about 80-90% of the incremental project output would enter market
channels. As Bangladesh is far from food self-sufficiency, and population
continues to rise at a rapid pace, there is no danger that incremental project
production of 282,000 tons of paddy and 192,000 tons of wheat at full develop-
ment in year 7 of the project, would remain unsold. The traditional marketing
system in the project area is well developed. A chain of primary markets
usually exists within two miles of any village where traders purchase all types
of produce. Traders may also purchase at the farmgate. Small lots of produce
are then aggregated and resold at larger secondary markets for distribution
to processing plants or final markets. Farmer cooperatives have officially
been encouraged to market paddy and wheat, but so far their activities have
remained very limited. As the project would strengthen IRDP services, it is
expected that cooperative marketing activities would accelerate in the future.
Finally, in addition to the private marketing system, GOB through its Food
Ministry, has been stepping up grain purchases and may now procure about
10 to 15% of grain entering commercial markets. Several projects are presently
underway to increase procurement centers and storage capacity in the project
area which will enable Government to further expand its marketing operations.
This would provide new market outlets for farmers and help stabilize food
prices in the future. Thus, no serious demand and marketing problems are
anticipated and increased grain production would easily be absorbed locally
or find a ready market in major cities.
Prices
6.06      Crop prices in Bangladesh are largely determined by the supply and
demand situation and vary significantly between locations, seasons and from
one year to another. The Government, however, intervenes in foodgrain market-
ing through its ration system and procurement-cum-support price policy.
Although the procurement system still suffers from various shortcomings, and
the impact of GOB interventions on domestic price fluctuations has remained
limited so far, it is expected that present Government efforts to construct
additional foodgrain storage facilities, to build up buffer stocks, and to
tighten up the official procurement machinery, would enable it to intervene
more effectively in domestic markets in the future. As a result, it is
assumed that future farmgate prices (in constant terms) for paddy and wheat
would tend to be in line with the current official procurement prices which
are Tk/maund 115 and 124 for aus and aman paddy respectively, and Tk/maund
124 for wheat. Fertilizer prices are fixed by GOB and have been highly
subsidized. However, it is Government's intention to reduce these subsidies
and eventually eliminate them completely, as stipulated under several IDA/IFAD
Fertilizer Import Projects (944-BD, 1044-BD, 31-BA) as well as Import Credits.
In 1981/82, the average subsidy on fertilizers was reduced to about 21%.
Subsidies on pesticides have already been eliminated. For the financial
analysis, prices for inputs, including human and animal labor, are based
on prevailing Government and market prices in the project area.



- 37 -
VII.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Farm Income
7.01      At present, virtually all benefitting farmers have no access to
irrigation. Four model irrigation groups, typical of the target group
small-holders within the project area, have been examined to assess the
impact of irrigation on farm incomes and cash flows. These models reflect
the social and ecological conditions prevailing in the project area which
can roughly be subdivided into two different regions; namely the Madhupur
Tract and the Old Brahmaputra Flood Plains. Within these regions crop pro-
duction patterns mainly depend on soil conditions (well or poorly drained
soils). To assure optimal use of DTWs, all group irrigation models assume
that a minimum of 66 acres of land would be available for irrigation at the
very beginning of DTW operation.  Irrigated land is then expected to reach
an average of 80 acres four years later.
7.02      The two group irrigation models for the hadhupur Tract indicate
that farm families presently living in this area are obliged to supplement
their subsistence needs by off-farm work. In fact, from surveys conducted
in this area it appears that households with land of 2.5 acres and below
earn about half of their Tk 4,000-4,500 yearly income as laborers and from
various other off-farm activities. Farmers in the Old Brahmaputra Flood
Plains are better off as they own on average 3.5 acres of land and thus are
able to produce more than their subsistence needs. In each case the models
assume that the project would have no effect on the cropping and the income
which farmers derive from their land outside the irrigation area. However,
off-farm income of farmers in the Madhupur Tract would tend to decline as more
farm-family labor would be required with irrigation. Group membership would
vary between 60 and 90 families. To simplify the financial analysis it is
assumed that farmers would on average cultivate one acre of land within the
command area. Based on these assumptions, and those described in the pro-
ceeding chapter (cropping patterns, yields and prices, etc.) incremental net
incomes, cash flows as well as financial returns were estimated for the four
representative irrigation models as well as the average participating farm
family (see Annex 6 Tables 1 to 4).
7.03      The following table indicates that the installation of a DTW would
substantially improve farmer's net income and cash flow situation. The
improvements would vary, however, with the type of soil and location of
holdings in the project area.



38 -
Table 6.3 - Farmers Net Income and Cash Flow
/a                      lb
Net Farm Incomes-/for            Cash Flow-  for
Average Farmer in            Average Farmer in
Region                      Irrigation Groups             Irrigation Groups
(Tk)                         (Tk)
/c               Pc
I. Madhupur Tract
(a) Well drained
soils             4,015      6,015                14        1,639
(b) Poorly drained
soils             4,533      5,787                157       1,412
II. Old Brahmaputra
Flood Plain
(a) Well drained
soils             4,570      6,456                195       2,080
(b) Poorly drained
soils             5,658      7,287             1,282        2,912
/a   After debt service.
/b   After deduction of estimated value of home-consumption as well as
debt service from net farm income.
/c   At full development in year 4.
P = Present
W = Future with project
Increases in farm income would range from 27% to 50%. The largest relative
increase would take place in the Madhupur Tract, where because of climatic
and topographic constraints mostly single cropping is practiced at present,
but potential exists for much more intensive cultivation with irrigation.
In fact, while farmers in this area depend to a large extent on their
off-farm income to provide for their subsistence needs the availability of
irrigation water under the project would enable them to become full farmers
in the sense that increased crop production would not only allow them to
cover their subsistence needs but also-after deduction of production and
irrigation costs as well as debt service-leave a cash surplus, albeit a
rather small one. Income gains for farmers living in the more favorable
Old Brahmaputra Flood Plains would be somewhat less in relative terms
mainly because of the relatively high level of development already achieved
in this area. In all four cases, the installation of a DThs would result in
a substantial improvement in the final cash flow situation of participating
farm families, in particular for those who had hardly any cash available at
the beginning of the project. In other words, for many farmers the installa-
tion of a DTW would be the entrance ticket to modern economy. All projections
have been based on rather conservative estimates. Indeed, as previously



- 39 -
mentioned, yields have been projected at below their maximum potential.
Moreover, it was assumed that irrigation groups would need about four years
to increase the irrigated area from 60 acres to 80 acres. Well organized
groups could not only shorten this gestation period but probably increase
the irrigated area beyond the assumed average acreage of 80 acres.
7.04      The financial viability of the project is illustrated by the high
financial rates of return to all resources engaged in carrying out the invest-
ment ranging from 51% to 70%. However, it must be mentioned here that for the
purpose of the financial rate of return calculations DTW have been costed at
their highly subsidized STW equivalent price (see paras 7.06-7.08). Returns
to KSS/farmer's own capital contribution are even higher and far exceed 100%
in all four models. These high rates of return reflect not only the high
potential productivity of the proposed investment, but also the rather limited
contribution farmers are expected to make to finance the initial investment
outlays. However, considering the pre-project cash flow situation of most
of these irrigation groups and individual participants, a more than 10%
contribution would probably be difficult to achieve. In fact, the cash
downpayment of Tk 14,000 (Tk 175/average farm family) will probably constitute
a major sacrifice for most participating KSS/farmers. Thus, the loan financing
of 90% of the initial investment costs as well as all incremental operating
costs is fully justified. Finally, high rates of return reflect the fact that
farmers would already reap some benefits from a DTW during its first year of
operation. In fact, DTWs are expected to be installed during the dry season
so that supplementary irrigation would be available for the following aus and
aman cropping seasons. Thus, the additional income earned would partly offset
initial investment outlays and incremental operating costs during the first
year of DTW operation.
7.05      After the difficult start-up period, cash flow projections indicate
that with a moratorium on principal for one year, borrowers of all irrigation
groups would have no major difficulties in servicing their loans and complet-
ing repayment within 9 years, well within the life period of the investment
estimated as being between 10 and 15 years for engines and pumpsets and beyond
20 years for the remaining parts of a DTW. Net incremental cash flows of
farmers in irrigation groups would be between 5 to 10 times the annual payment
required for servicing the loans received for the purchase of DTWs. In other
words, irrigation groups/farmers would have to spend between 10% and 20% of
their residual cash surplus on servicing their annual MT loan repayments.
Moreover, it should be noted that the financial analysis assumes constant
price levels for the future. Any inflation in domestic prices would reduce
the real cost of repaying the loans for DTWs and would thus make the invest-
ment even more attractive to farmers. Concluding, while the uncertainties
surrounding farm budget projections are fully recognized, the results of the
financial analysis clearly illustrate the potentially favorable impact the
installation of a DTW would have on farmers' income. Thus, the incentives to
the future beneficiaries of DTWs are considered to be fully adequate to ensure
their active participation in the project and their liquidity position suffi-
cient to service their debts.



- 40 -
Cost Recovery
7.06      All minor irrigation equipment was until recently heavily subsidized
like most other agricultural inputs. To improve the budgetary situation GOB
has adopted a policy to eliminate such subsidies by selling minor irrigation
equipment to farmers at full cost in the future. However, because of the
very high cost of DTW, it was generally accepted that the application of
this new policy would be too great a burden on farmers who depend on DTWs
for their water requirements. Hence, in a joint GOB/IDA review of the minor
irrigation sector it was agreed that DTWs should be sold at a price which
would equate the cost of irrigation water with that from STW. Underlying this
pricing principle is the fact that STW are the core of GOB's minor irrigation
development program and are being sold at almost full cost.  It was, therefore,
recommended that different types of minor irrigation equipment be sold either
at their full cost or at a price based on their STW equivalent price. This is
the price at which the cost of a given volume of water would be the same as
the STW cost. As the total cost of water (ac/in) produced by a DTW is much
higher than that by a STW - mainly reflecting the different groundwater
levels - DTW users would thus pay only the STW equivalent price for their use
of water. In other words, on social and equity grounds continued subsidization
of the DTW selling price would put DTW users on an equal footing with the more
advantaged STW owners. Although this pricing recommendation was accepted,
actual selling prices for DTWs have so far been below the STW equivalent
price. In fact, the present official DTW selling price is Tk 85,000, while
the present STW equivalent price is estimated at about Tk 140,000 (Annex 6,
Tables 5-7).
7.07      The financial analysis indicates that KSS group's cash flow situa-
tion with the project would be adequate to finance a DTW at its estimated
STW equivalent price. However, a general consensus exists that it would be
difficult, if not impossible from a sociai and political point of view, to
charge farmers the full STW equivalent price in the immediate future. It is,
therefore proposed that the full STW equivalent price be reached after a
five-year period in FY1986/87. Application of this recommendation would mean
that farmers' contribution to the financing of DTWs whose total cost is
estimated at Tk 400,000 in 1982 prices would increase from about 21% of total
cost in 1982/83 to 35% in 1986/87.  To reach this target the DTW selling
prices in real terms would have to be raised by about 15% during each year
of the five-year period (FY1982/83 - Tk 85,000; FY1983/84 - Tk 100,000;
FY1984/85 - Tk 110,000; FY1985/86 - Tk 120,000; and FY1986/87 - Tk 140,000).
To these increases future price inflation rates would have to be added. All
O&M costs would be borne by DTW users from the outset. While Government's
contribution to the financing of DTWs would remain substantial at project
completion, it must be underlined that the application of the STW equivalent
price policy would be a major improvement compared with practices in the
past, during which DTWs were distributed to farmers as quasi free gifts.
Assurances have been obtained that the above recommendations be applied, and
actual price increases for DTWs be reviewed annually by Government and IDA
along the guidelines set out in this report.



- 41 -
7.08      It may appear from the financial analysis that farmers would
eventually be able to make a greater contribution to the financing of DTW
capital costs than proposed under this project. However, it is felt, at
this stage, that significant increases going beyond the STW equivalent price
should only be considered when: (a) the technical efficiency and organiza-
tional arrangements for the operation of DTW, in particular their ability to
provide an assured and timely water supply, have clearly been demonstrated;
and (b) reliable data on the actual benefits accruing to project participants
has been obtained. In fact, given the often poor efficiency of existing DTW,
it is difficult to expect that farmers would be willing to make greater
contributions until the benefits of the new DTW technology have clearly
been established. These uncertainties and lack of experience in selling DTW
to KSS farmers also explain why a more gradual increase in DTW selling prices
is advocated under this project. The project would provide funds to closely
monitor its results so that at project completion an informed decision could
be taken with regard to the future pricing of DTW.
Impact on Government Budget
7.09      The government's share of the project cost, including contingencies,
would amount to about Tk 554 M.  Out of this amount, some Tk 185 M would be
recovered in duties and taxes paid by the project, leaving a net government
financing requirement of Tk 369 N over four years. After project completion
government would have to pay for salaries of IRDP incremental staff, as well as
operating and maintenance costs for office equipment and vehicles, estimated
at Tk 2.5 M. however, as the cooperatives become financially viable govern-
ment financing would gradually be reduced. Admittedly, the pace of this process
is difficult to predict at this stage. At full development the project would
generate additional income of Tk 566 M1, of which 80 to 90% would enter the cash
economy of Bangladesh. Considering the present national tax/GDP relationship
of about 9% it can be assumed that project derived incremental income would
generate about Tk 40 M in additional tax income per year for the government.
Although this estimate is admittedly a very approximate one, it indicates that
government's additional tax income might well exceed its financial requirements
after project completion and thus leave a substantial balance to contribute to
government's debt payments for the financing of the project.  Drilling rigs
and auxiliary equipment would be sold to private contractors and part of the
construction cost of thana facilities would be recovered by a small rent paid
by TCCAs for these facilities. In the long run the budgetary impact of DTW
Projects would mainly cepend on Government's DTW pricing policy. The proposed
STW equivalent pricing policy for the sale of DTW to be applied under this
project would go along way to improving GOB's budgetary situation in the
medium term future.
7.10      Returns and Costs of Water.  As a further measure of the profit-
ability of the proposed investment and as a link to the following economic
analysis the returns and costs of water for the four irrigation groups
were calculated in economic prices. The economic value of the water depends
on the level of agricultural development and the water supply situation.
Based on the estimated cropping patterns, yields, farm inputs and water
requirements for the four irrigation models considered, the average economic



- 42 -
return per unit of water (m ) used would range from Tk 2.56 to Tk 0.95 (see
Annex 6, Table 8). The cost of producing one unit of water taking into
account both investment and operating costs is estimated between Tk 0.32 to
Tk 0.61 for the four irrigation groups considered. Thus, the returns would
be between twice and four times as high as the cost of producing a unit of
water from the DTWs to be installed under the project.
Project Benefits and Justification
7.11      Strengthening and expanding the TCCA/KSS operations in the project
area would make it possible for small farmers to benefit from production
activities to which individually they could not aspire. The project, through
the TCCA/KSS program, would provide smallholders with the necessary technical
know-how and financial means to diversify their activities and thus enable
them to earn higher incomes. The IMP program under the project would help
remove obstacles - often of a social nature - to a fuller utilization of the
irrigation infrastructure. Overall, the installation of a DTW would not only
increase farmers' income, but more importantly also act as a catalyst for
smallholders to organize themselves into cooperatives, which in the long run
would enable them to reap benefits which would probably go far beyond those
calculated for this project.
7.12      Production.  At full development, in 1989, successful project
implementation would lead to incremental annual production of about 282,000
tons of paddy and 197,000 of wheat, which would make an important contribution
towards the endeavors of GOB to attain food self-sufficiency. Based on pro-
jected world market prices the extra grain produced would represent a gross
foreign exchange value of about US$95 million a year. Allowing for increased
foreign exchange expenditures (US$23 million) on fertilizers, pesticides, as
well as fuel, spares and replacements for DTWs the net annual foreign exchange
savings due to the project would be about US$72 million.
7.13      Employment.  Increases in employment opportunities due to the project
would be substantial. The more intensive land use under the project would
create additional labor requirements of about 27 million man/days for farming
operations at full development. Most of the additional employment opportuni-
ties would benefit under-employed farm family members, in particular during the
dry season when agricultural employment is low. About 40% (10.8 M man days)
of the additional farm labor requirements would be for hired labor, mostly
landless laborers who would thus also benefit from the project. Moreover,
additional permanent labor would be required to operate DTIVs, not to mention
secondary employment generated by activities such as marketing of produce,
transportation, processing and other services resulting from increased agri-
cultural production and DTW operations. Admittedly, it is difficult to make
reliable estimates of these secondary employment opportunities but it is
certain that project's impact on employment would go far beyond the above
mentioned estimates of incremental farm labor requirements. Overall, the main
impact of the project on the employment situation and prospects in the project
area would be to provide more year-round activities for presently under-
employed people; permanent new employment positions would be limited,
estimated at between 4,000 to 5,000.



- 43 -
7.14      Beneficiaries.  Assuming that membership in DTW irrigation groups
would vary between 60 and 90 families, about 300,000 farm families would
directly benefit from the project. The profile of project beneficiaries
would to a large extent reflect prevailing land ownership patterns in the
project area. However, BIDS evaluation survey of the Northwest Tubeweil
Project showed that the surveyed DTW groups contain a higher proportion of
small farms than the overall farm size distribution in the Rajshashi Division.
Based on this and the use of the TCCA/KSS system to channel irrigation equip-
ment, knowhow and credit to the farmers, it is expected that the project would
be of major benefit to small farmers. It is estimated that at present about
30% of project's beneficiaries, mainly those living in the Madhupur Tract,
would live at the poverty line. From the farm budgets it can be concluded
that the small farmer who receives irrigation through the project would
increase his annual income varying from Tk 1200 to Tk 2050 per acre irrigated,
representing an increase of between 27% and 50% (see para 7.03). As noted
earlier, projections have been based on rather conservative assumptions
concerning yields and phasing of project benefits. hiuch of this increased
income would derive from more productively employing farm family members.
While these income gains in absolute terms appear modest (US$62 to 103 per
family) experiences made in other parts of the subcontinent have shown that
the installation of minor irrigation facilities and the setting up ot coop-
eratives can transform presently poverty stricken people into an active and
relatively prosperous community.  The project should therefore be considered
to be only the starting point of this transformation.
7.15      Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests.  The economic analysis has
been carried out for the project as a whole. Summary economic costs and
benefits are presented in Annex 7, Table 4. The following main assumptions
were made in the analysis:
(a) Benefits: Project benefits would be derived mainly from
additional cropped paddy and wheat areas during the dry
season. In addition assured water supply during the wet
season would make larger and more effective application or
high yielding varieties, fertilizers and pesticides more
attractive to farmers.
(b) Prices: Traded commodities have been valued at the average
of Bank forecasts for 1982-1990 and adjusted tor treight,
handling, processing and quality difterences as appropriate
(Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2). Non-traded goods and services
have been adjusted by a standard conversion tactor (0.83).
The exchange rate is taken at a constant Tk 19.5 = US$1.
(c) Investment Costs. After deducting price contingencies, indirect
taxes and subsidies the economic analysis includes all finan-
cial investment costs, except those for drilling rigs and
auxiliary equipment. These items would be procured under
the project primarily to improve the general drilling capacity
in the country and their use wouli not be restricted to project
activity. Drilling equipment costs are included as deprecia-
tion allowances in the estimatec installation costs of a DTi.



- 44 -
Construction of the water distribution system is considered
to be an annual cost because of the temporary nature of the
channels, most of which will have to be reconstructed each
year. Non-traded investment costs were adjusted by a standard
conversion factor of 0.83.
(d) Production Costs: The analysis also includes all incremental
farm production costs as well as irrigation operating, recon-
struction and maintenance costs. The financial cost of
unskilled labor, Tk 15 per man/day has been adjusted - in
addition to the SCF of 0.83 - by a factor of 0.68 to reflect
its real value because of present and foreseeable un- and
under-employment in the project area.
(e)  Institutional Support Cost:  Full costs of the institutional
support components (BADC, IRDP and consultants) have been
included. however, at project completion consultancy and
BADC services would be discontinued as they would mainly
be required to supervise the installation of 4000 DTWs under
the project. Only IRDP services and IMP training for TCCA/KSS
would continue after project completion.
(f) The period of analysis is 21 years.
Based on these assumptions, the best estimate for the IRk is 30.4% and for the
NPV (at the opportunity cost of capital at 12%) Tk 2,878 M. Sensitivity tests
indicate that the project is mildly sensitive with respect to most variables.
Returns are highly sensitive to changes in command area, yields and output
prices than changes in costs underlining again the importance of efficient
supporting services (IRDP) for successful project implementation. however,
even for a combination of possible adverse circumstances, the project maintains
an economic rate of return well above the opportunity cost of capital.
Table 7.1
Switching Values /a
1.   All investment costs                              + 478
2.   All production costs                              + 121
3.   All costs                                         +  52
4.   Total Benefits; Command Area,
yields and/or output prices                       - 34
/a   Percentage changes in variables which would make the net
present value of the project, evaluated at the opportunity
cost of capital, equal to zero.
The favorable rate of return is essentially a result of the highly productive
and well proven technical package proposed to farmers under this project;
namely irrigation water and modern farm inputs. Moreover, this combination
has the additional advantage of having a short gestation period, yielding
benefits within one year of the investment.



- 45 -
Project Risks
7.16      The high rate of return would provide a reasonable cushion against
possible project risks which are considered to be rather limited. A possible
risk would be the under-utilization of tubewells. In the past low running
hours and small areas irrigated by DTWs were caused mainly by inadequate
support services, lack of credit and social factors. A further risk would
be that the project might overextend the implementation capacity of agencies
concerned. Should this occur targets would not be met and thus benefits
would be less than projected. Overall, the main risks of the project would
primarily be related to institutional weaknesses and lack of coordination
among the various government institutions involved in project implementation.
The project has, however, the advantage of drawing on lessons learned during
the implementation of the first DTW project (Credit 341-BD) and other ongoing
projects in the minor irrigation field. This, together with provisions made
under the project to (a) strengthen IRDP and BADC services, (b) to impose
strict selection criteria for DTW installation, (c) to provide adequate MT
credit for TCCA/KSS, (d) to recruit a consultant team and lastly, (e) to
regularly monitor project performance, should help minimize these organiza-
tional and institutional risks. Overall, considering the urgency of GOB to
exploit its rich groundwater resources in order to feed its ever-increasing
population, and the high potential benefits associated with minor irrigation
investments, the risks described above are considered acceptable.
VIII. RECOMviMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES
8.01      The following major assurances were obtained:
(a)  Task force would be appointed and proposals for the regulation
of water development would be submitted for IDA approval not
later than December 31, 1983 (para 2.10);
(b)  Adequate MT credit would be provided to farmers to purchase
existing DTW (para 2.11);
(c)  Annual rental charges would be increased in real terms from
the present rate of Tk 3,400 in FY1982/83 to Tk 5,000 in
FY1983/84, Tk 7,500 in lY1984/85 and Tk 10,000 in FY1985/86
(para 2.11);
(d)  At least 60%O of the DTW rentals would be collected by June 30,
1982/83 and at least 75/a by June 30, 1983/84 and thereafter
(para 2.11);
(e)  All spare parts for DTW rented by BADC would be sold at full
cost, including taxes and duties (para 2.11);
(f)  The Irrigation Hanagement Program would be implemented
in the project area (para 2.12);
(g)  Measures would be taken to strengthen and restructure IKDP
not later than December 31, 1982 (para 2.23);
(h)  Aaequate arrangements would be macie LO provice M1T credit
to drilling contractors (para -.U);



- 46 -
(i)  Detailed plans for t;.e well testing program would be
submitted for IDA review by June 30, 1983 and Executive
Engineer in charge of the Scheme would be appointed by
December 31, 1982 (para 4.10);
(j)  Detailed plans for project evaluation would be submitted
for IDA review by March 31, 1983 (para 4.17);
(k)  Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project
accounts and statements of expenditures where applicable.
Audited accounts together with auditor's comments would
be sent to IDA within six months after the close of each
fiscal year (para 4.32);
(1)  The Registrat of Cooperatives, by March 31, 1983 would
prepare an inventory of TCCA/KSS in the project area
showing the date of last audit for each and prepare a
phased plan for bringing the audit up-to-date by June 30,
1985. It would submit a quarterly report on progress of
the audit program (para 4.32);
(m)  Criteria for DTW group and site selection and procedures
for loan application would be adhered to (paras 5.06 and
5.07); and
(n)  DTW selling price would reach the full STW equivalent
price in 1986/87. Actual annual selling price increases
for DTW would be reviewed annually by GOB ana IDA following
agreed guidelines (para 7.07).
8.02       Conditions of credit effectiveness would be chat:
(a)  BADC's key project staff had been appointed (para 4.U6);
(b)  The key staff for IRDP headquarters, District offices
and TCCA/KSS in the project area had duly been appointed
(para 4.11);
(c)  A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and Bangladesh
Bank (BB) with regard to refinancing requirenients of Sonali
Bank (SB); and a Participation Agreement between Bangladesh
Bank and Sonali Bank, both satisfactory to IDA, had been
executed; and the Project Proforma (PP), and Annual
Development Program (ADP) for year 1, satisfactory to
IDA, had been approved by GOB (paras 4.21 and 4.22);
(d)  The Project Coordinating Committee and District Project
Exective Committees had been established (para 5.04);
(e)  The co-financing agreements between ODA and GOB, and
ADAB and GOB had been signed.
8.03       With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for an IDA credit for US$68 M.



47
Schedule A
Page 1
BANGLADESh
SECOND DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Agricultural MT Credit - Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   GOB to BB
(a) annual interest rate of 3% for BB refinancing SB;
(b) repayment period up to 12 years inclusive up to two
years grace period; and
(c) foreign exchange risk to be borne by BB; and
(d) refinancing up to 100% BB refinance.
2.   BB to SB
(a)  interest rate to be not less than 4% for onlending
through TCCA/KSS;
(b)  installment repayment to coincide approximately Witt
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) refinancing up to 90% of individual loans.
3.   SB to TCCA
(a) interest rate to be not less than 6-1/2%;
(b) installment repayment to coincide approximately with
agreed collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) refinancing up to 100% of individual loans.
4.   TCCA to KSS
(a) interest rate to be not less than 10-1/2% per annum; and
(b) allocation for bad debt reserve to be not less than 2%.



48                                   Schedule A
Page 2
5.   KSS to Ultimate Borrowers
(a)  interest rate to be not less than 14% per annum;
(b)  borrowers' contribution 10% plus obligatory purchase
of KSS shares;
(c)  repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrowers'
repayment capacity but generally not to exceed nine years
inclusive of grace period of up to one year.
6.   General
(a) security to be in accordance with arrangements between
SB and BB;
(b) BB shall:
(i)  cease lending, to be refinanced out of the proceeds of
the credit to SB in respect of any TCCA, whenever loan
recovery over the proceeding 12-month period falls below
65% of demand.
(ii)  cause SB to implement a loan recovery program satisfactory
to BB and IDA, in any project area TCCA for which loan
recovery drops below 75% of demand.
(c)  possibilities for a future increase in loan recovery percentages
would be discussed and agreed upon between GOB and IDA.
For the purpose of the above conditions "demand" means principal
and interest falling due over the preceeding 12-month period in
question plus overdues from previous years.



- 49 -                        ANNEX I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL (II) PROJECT
Groundwater Resources and Development
Introduction
1.        This annex contains a review of the hydrogeology of Bangladesh as
a whole, on the basis of which the project area was delineated (IBRD (Map
16189). It also discusses past groundwater development on a country wide
basis but with a definite focus on the project area. Finally, in the future
development section, the development proposed under this project is dis-
cussed.
2.        In terms of geological structure, Bangladesh is located in a sub-
siding basin and it contains the confluences of some of the largest rivers
in the world. Consequently, the basin has been filled up with fluviatile
sediments often of the sand and gravel grading, thus forming a huge aquifer
complex. Because of prolific monsoon rainfall, the complex is filled up with
water to near the ground surface.
3.        The quality of the aquifer and the groundwater it contains is
usually very good. Hence, water supplies have been obtained from this
source, originally for drinking purposes and then for irrigation, by a
variety of different structures, ranging from large diameter open wells to
turbine pumped deep tubewells. In recent years, tubewells have become one of
the major sources of irrigation water; further large scale tubewell develop-
ments are planned.
Previous and On-Going Studies
4.        Systematic groundwater studies were started in Bangladesh in the
1960s. Originally most of the work was of a generalized appraisal nature
(Peterson 1964, FAO 1966, McDonald 1969) or specifically oriented towards
domestic supplies for urban centres (James M.M. Inc. 1965, Parsons Corp.
1966, Camp, Dresser & McKee 1967).
5.        The major local participant in these early groundwater surveys was
EPWAPDA (East Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority), who started
appraisal work in 1964. They issued their first report in the same year and
a fuller report describing the results of their investigations in 1968. All
this work as highly general and, for development projects, useful only as
background material. EPWAPDA's successor, BWDB, has continued this general
work and has issued a number of publications both of countrywide and regional
scale (1970, 1972, 1974, 1979 and 1980).



- 50 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        In 1971-72 IBRD carried out studies and published their first major
work on land and water resource development in Bangladesh. 1/ An evaluation
of water resources (including groundwater), water requirements and con-
straints to development were included.
7.        The major technical work undertaken since 1972, has been done by
Sir M. MacDonald and Partners (MMP), consulting engineers, on behalf of BADC
and BWDB, mainly in connection with the recently completed deep tubewell
project in the northwest of Bangladesh. This BADC/IDA project included the
construction of 3,000 irrigation wells and an extensive program of analysis
of geological, hydrochemical, water level and test pumping data. The sub-
sequent report published in 1977 contains a comprehensive review of the
hydrogeology of the north west region.
8.        Additional reports by MMP, essentially dealing with the same
region, covered aquifer conditions and tubewell depths, shallow tubewell
development, screen materials, tubewell electrification, command improvement
and overall development potential.   (MMP 1978 a, 1978 b, 1979 and 1980).
The development potential estimate was based on a digital modelling exercise,
which has now been superceded by a more sophisticaed model.
9.        In 1978, UNDP in conjunction with BWDB started a countrywide survey
of the groundwater conditions of Bangladesh. They have now issued their main
report (draft) which provides a very useful base level data compilation, on
which future groundwater development planning should be based. In addition
they produced a number of regional reports including those dealing with North
Mymensingh, Madhupur and Comilla areas and propose to cover all the remaining
regions of Bangladesh. Unfortunately, these regional reports add little to
the country-wide compilation (in fact some are definitely inferior).
10.       It has emerged very clearly from all this work that almost the
whole of Bangladesh is suitable for the installation of high capacity
tubewell; the only exceptions can be easily identified on the basis of sur-
face geology and morphology. The major unknowns constraining groundwater
development in Bangladesh were identified as aquifer recharge and safe yield.
Two studies have recently been initiated, which are of relevance to this
problem: the digital groundwater modelling study of the northwest undertaken
by MMP for BADC/IDA and a water balance study of North Bangladesh also being
done by MMP but for BWDB/UNDP. Both studies would be completed in 1982.
11.       The modelling study of the northwest is intended primarly to quan-
tify the various groundwater balance components, including recharge and
1/ Bangladesh Land and Water Resources Sector Study Report No. PS-13,
December 1, 1972.



- 51 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 3
potential recharge, more accurately than has been done before, by matching
the model output with the observed behaviour of the groundwater system. The
model utilizes data derived from tte first BADC/IDA DTW project and once
properly calibrated against present conditions and historical data, will be
used to predict the aquifers behaviour under anv proposed groundwater
abstraction regime.
12.       The water balance study aims at accurately quantifying the total
water resources (including groundwater) of North Bangladesh. It utilizes a
package of computer programs, includng a grondwater model. The treatment of
the groundwater component of this water balance will necessarily be cruder
and less accurate than in the northwest model as the data base is very nuch
inferior.
OCCURRENCE OF GROUNDWATER
Geological Setting
13.       Bangladesh is located in or adjacent to the Himalayan foredeep, a
subsiding region in front of the mountain belt, which stretches right across
the Indian subcontinent to Pakistan in the west. The great rivers debouching
from the Himalaywas, once they enter the subsiding foredeep, are diverted
along it, either to the southwest as the Indus system or to the east as the
Ganges and Brahmaputra systems.
14.       tiost of the country is covered by Quaternary alluvium, with only
small Tertiary inliers found in sylhet and Comilla districts, and bigger
Tertiary outcrops occuring in the Chittagong region. No outcrops of
pre-Tertiary strata are found in Bangladesh at all. Evidence of older
stratigraphy and structure has been obtained from oil, gas and coal explora-
tion drilling and from aerial geophysical surveys.
15.       The region is underlain by Precambrian Basement complex whose
surface dips generally southwards. This Archean surface is very irregular,
probably due to block faulting. It has been recorded at 450 feet in Dinajpur
district, at 9,000 ft at Pabna and is expected to lie at over 4,000 feet in
Sylhet.
16.       A discontininuous sequence of Palaeoz-oic and Mesozoic strata
overlie the Basement. They are mainly of continental and volcanic facies,
though marine shales and sandstone have been identified as well. The erratic
occurrence of these strata reflect the long term tectonic instability of the
region, associated with the Tethys geosyncline and the Alpine/Himalayan
Orogeny.



- 52 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 4
17.       The Alpine tectonisms have continued into the Tertiary times, as
witnessed by the discontinous stratigraphic record (Table 1). The formatiorn
are mainly marine sands, silts, clays, and subordinae limestones, becoming
increasingly consolidated with stratigraphic age. The top member of the
Tertiary succession, the Dupi Tila formation, consists mainly of fluviatile
sands and forms a valuable squifer where it occurs near the land surface.
18.       Resting uncomfortably on the Tertiary sequence is the Quarternary
alluvial complex. It is usually divided into older and younger alluvia. The
former includes the Barind and Madhupur tracts and the underlying fine and
medium sands (sometimes pebbly). The latter is mainly sandy with clay and
silt layers, except at the coast where the sands pass into fine grained
deltaic and swamp deposits. The whole quaternary succession is affected by
faulting showing that the tectonic instability has continued into recent
times.
i9.       The Quarternary alluvial complex is the main aquifer of Bangladesh.
It is normaly at least several hundred feet thick, contains numerous highly
permeable sands and gravels and, away from the coast, is saturated with good
quality groundwater.
Geomorphology
20.       Most of Bangladesh is a flat featureless plane surrounded by low
hills. The north-western and western natural boundaries are the Rajmahal
Hills of India, formed by Jurassic plateau basalts; the northern boundary,
the Shillong Plateau is composed of basement complex rocks overlain by
arenaceous and carbonate Eocene strata; the eastern margins are the Sylhet,
Tripura and Chittagong Hills which are folded Tertiary marine sediments.
21.       Although the land is mainly of low relief and practically feature-
less, three distinct geomorphological units can be recognized: (a) The
piedmont plains; (b) the recent flood plains and alluvial interfluves; and
(c) Older, Pleistocene alluvial terraces, probably brought up to the surface
by faulting.
22.       The piedmont occur in narrow strips adjacent to the Himalayan and
Burmese highlands in the northwest, north and southwest of Bangladesh. They
consist mainly of well drained sandy and silty soils.
23.       The recent flood plains and interstream alluvial areas occupy the
bulk of the country, excluding the swampy coastal zone.  They consist of
active flood plains and older scars, levees and terraces, mainly of sandy and
silty materials, with more clayey basins. The whole area, particularly the
basins are subject to flooding during the monsoon.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
24.       The Pleistocene terraces (the Barind and Madhupur tracts) occur at
somewhat higher elevations than surrounding alluvium. They are mainly of
clayey deposits and are thought to have been up-faulted into the present
positions. Being higher than the surrounding country they are less prone to
flooding but may be partly submerged at the height of the monsoon.
Aquifer Geometry
25.       The principal exploitable aquifers of Bangladesh are sand and
gravel layers found within 600 feet of the ground surface in the alluvial
areas. Normally, the near-surface strata tend to be clayey or a mixture of
clay, silt and sand, but are underlain by beds of clean coarse elastic
material such as sand and gravel. According to UNDP (1981) the succession of
interest from the point of view of groundwater abstraction, can be rational-
ized into four broad units as follows: (a) Upper clay/silt/fine sand layer;
(b) Main aquifer; mainly medium to coarse sand with some gravel; (c) Lower
clays; (d) Deep aquifer; mainly fine to medium sand, sometimes pebbly.
26.       The uppermost unit is highly variable in composition and thickness,
which may vary from 0 to more than 100 feet. It frequently contains beds
of fine sands, some of which are exploited by shallow wells. The clays of
this unit are of the non-swelling type and therefore have a reasonably high
infiltration and permeability even when wet.
29.       The lower aquifer tends to be somewhat finer than the upper and its
thickness is unknown but it may be very great. It contains clay and silt
layers. Its real distribution is poorly known but it has been identified
both in the north and in the Dacca area; it may occur under most of the
alluvial areas of Bangladesh.
30.       The great majority of groundwater exploited in Bangladesh is pumped
from the main aquifer, except where this is missing as on the Barind and
Madhupur tracts where the surface outcrop is of the lower clays. The lower
aquifer is also exploited in the Dacca urban area.
31.       The depth to exploitable aquifer, that is the thickness of upper
clay and silt has been mapped for most of Bangladesh and is shown in map 2.
Sucn topmost layers tend to be thick in the old Pleistocene terrace areas,
but other areas of thick surface clay exist as well, particularly in Dacca,
Comilla, Jessore and Faridpur districts.
32.       Sharp lateral boundaries are sure to exist because of the common
occurrence of faulting within the alluvial comlex. However, on the evidence
of pump test data the faults seldom act as hydraulic barrier boundaries; it
would appear that within the aquifer system, most commonly the faulting
merely brings different sets of sandy beds into juxtaposition.



54                            AN\NEX 1
Page 6
33.       The whole of the alluvial complex is saturated with groundwater,
usually to within a few feet of ground surface. Individual aquifers within
that complex are often confined or semi-confined with the piezometric surface
more or less coincident with the water table, indicating that the phreatic
zone is hydraulically connected with the exploitable groundwater.
34.       The characteristic pattern of natural water level fluctuation is a
lowest position at the end of the dry season, a rise to the ground surface
within the first one or two months of the monsoon and a decline following the
end of the rains. The low position of the water level, which is one of the
critical parameters in well design, has been plotted for the whole of
Bangladesh and is shown on Map 3.
Aquifer Properties
35.       Little data on the grading of the aquifer material is available
except for the northwest region. In the project area the median grainsize
(D50) range seems to be from 0.2 to 0.8 mm, with uniformity coefficients
usually between 1.5 and 2.5. There is some evidence that, as expected, the
formations generally become finer southwards. Thus, in the project area the
formations of the Mymensignh and Kishorgang districts can be expected to be
somewhat coarse than those of Dacca.
36.       Much data exists on the transmission properties of the aquifers, in
the form of step-drawdown tests, which are carried out as a matter of
routine, on newly constructed tubewells. Unfortunately, few of these have
been analyzed. The available results of aquifer trasmissivity and lateral
permeability are listed in Table 2. No clear regional pattern emerges. Most
of the permeability results fall within the credibly narrow range of 0.001 to
0.002 ft/sec.
37.       The storage parameter of the aquifer complex is poorly known.
Analysis of pump test results gives values of about 103 which merely indi-
cates that at relatively rapid pressure declines, the aquifer behaves in a
confined or semi-confined manner. The usual range of storage coefficients
for this kind of alluvium is 5 to 15 percent.  Calculatons done by MMP on the
basis of groundwater level recession curves gave a wider range of I to 22%;
in the northwest, the calibration of the aquifer model generated a general
storage coefficient value of 12 percent.
Groundwater Quality
38.       From the point of view of irrigation, groundwater quality in
Bangladesh is generally good to excellent, except in the coastal zone, where
the influence of recent marine conditions is still evident. In the project
area the E.C. (electrolytic conductivity) of groundwater is mainly within the



- 55 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 7
range 150 to 750 micromhos/cm; moreover no toxic levels of any individual
ions have been identified.
39.       Irrigation water quality problems have been reported in Comilla,
including boron toxicity. Since toxic levels of boron in groundwater are
extremely rare, the Comilla problems need checking by sampling and analysis;
in fact the hydrochemistry of the area is due for a review.
40.       In general, the groundwaters of Bangladesh have a reducing rather
than oxidising tendency. PH values are commonly less than 7 and redox poten-
tials (Eh) are usually negative. Hence corrosion of the metallic (par-
ticularly mild steel) well components can be expected to be a problem.
However, the performance of existing wells suggest that cases of severe and
rapid corrosion are rare.
Groundwater Movement
41.       Water level data indicate low regional gradients and correspond-
ingly low lateral groundwater movement. The exception to this are areas
adjacent to the rivers where the surface water-groundwater interaction may be
significant and steep groundwater gradients can be locally set up by the
falls and rises of the river level.
42.       On the regional scale, the main components of the groundwater
balance are vertical. The main inflows to the aquifer complex are infiltra-
tion of rainfall and floods; the main outflows are evaporation and evapotran-
spiration.
Recharge and Safe Yield
43.       Groundwater recharge conditions are favorable all over Bangladesh.
As a result of the prolific monsoon rainfall much of the country is flooded
for several months infiltration rates are generally high and, although many
of the aquifers are to some extent confined by clayey and silty strata, such
confining beds have relatively high vertical permeability. In most areas the
aquifer complex fills up to ground surface and rejects recharge during the
late part of the monsoon season.
44.       To evaluate the safe yield of any part of Bangladesh, a concept of
potential recharge is used; this can be defined as the amount of water which
would reach the groundwater reservoir if there was room for it. UNDP (1981)
computed potential recharge in various parts of the country from meteorologi-
cal records as shown in Table 3.
45.       In the project area, the preparation report estimates potential
recharge, on the basis of similar calculations, as about 17 inches per year
in the Madhupur tract and as between 18 and 36 inches per year on the flood



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 8
plain of the old Brahmaputra. The modelling studies being currently under-
taken by MMP should refine these estimates but no final model output is yet
available. Consequently for the time being a general conservative figure
of 18 inches per annum is adopted. This is equivalent to about 4 million
acre feet.
PAST GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
Introducton
46.        Manually powered groundwater abstractions in Bangladesh were prob-
ably first developed thousands of years ago. Some mechanically pumped
tubewells go back to the early years of this century, but wide spread use of
deep and shallow tubewells for irrigation started in the 1960s. Currently
there are reported to be about 11,500 DTWs and 24,000 STWs in an operational
state in the country.
47.        The first major effort to exploit groundwater for irrigation was
made between 1961 and 1966 with the installation of 380 DTWs by EPWAPDA in
the northwest. Since then his particular aspect of groundwater development
has been taken over by BADC, who has constructed almost 13,000 DTWs as shown
in Table 4.
Existing Abstractions
48.        The current total groundwater abstraction in Bangladesh is
estimated to be about 4 million acre feet. Most of this abstraction is for
irrigation, but significant amounts are also pumped for urban water supply.
In areal terms the abstraction is mainly in the range of 3 to 6 inches,
except in the immediate vicinity of Dacca where it is much higher.
49.        The abstractions are usually well within safe yield limits and no
permanent water level decline has been recorded anywhere, except at Dacca
City, where the ever increasing municipal demand has resulted in groundwater
pumpage of about 70,000 acre feet per year. Since 1967 the groundwater
levels in Dacca have fallen by about 5 to 10 feet and the decline continues
at an annual rate of about 1 ft.
Deep Tubewell Design and Characteristics
50.        The early EPWAPDA tubewells were designed for discharges of between
3 and 5 cusecs. Since then it has been established that such discharges are
too large for farmers' groups to utilize efficiently and a BADC standard DTW
is designed for an output of 2 cusecs. DTWs yielding less would be
economicaly less advantageous.



- 57 -                        ANNEX I
Page 9
51.       Most of the BADC DTWs have been of almost identical design:
Drilling method               reverse circulation rotary
Drilled diameter              20-22 inches
depth                       about 300 feet
Upper well casing             GRP or mild steel;
dia. 14 inches
length 70-90 feet
Lower well casing             GRP or mild steel
dia. 6-8 inches
length 90-110 feet
Screen                        GRP slotted pipe
dia. 6-8 inches
length 120 feet
slot size 0.004-0.006 inches
Gravel pack
Pumpset                       diesel engine driven
line shaft turbine
Design discharge              2 cusecs
The major departures from this standard have been some wells in Serajganj,
which have been equipped with stainless steel wirewound screens of variable
length, and wells equipped with electric motors where electric power is
conveniently available.
52.       The pumps are normally shaft-driven vertical turbines of the mixed
flow type. Several makes are represented, the most common being probably
Johnston and KSB. The diesel engines are mainly air cooled of between 20 and
30 BHP (brake horse power) with Ruston, MWM, Lister and Deutz being the most
common makes.
53.       At 2 cusecs production rates, the specific drawdowns of most of the
wells are within the range of 5 to 20 feet per cusec. Analysis of the
step-drawdown tests shows that total well drawdown Sw can normally be
expressed by an equation of the type



- 58 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 10
2
Sw = AQ + BQ
where Q = discharge rate
and   A and B are constants.
In feet-second units this equation can be approximated by
Sw = 1.22 q + 1.5 Q2
T
where T = transmissivity
54.       Reportedly no major problems of well deterioration have been
experienced, except in the case of old wells (more than 15 years). In fact,
instances of well failure of any kind are remarkably low. Part of the reason
for this has probably been the low utilization factors of the wells in the
past.
Operation and Maintenance
55.       Most of the deep tubewells have a BADC trained operator employed by
the irrigation group; he is usually one of the local farmers. Among his
duties is keeping of a logbook with records of pump operation, diesel
delivery, etc. For the great majority, if not all wells, this duty is
neglected.
56.       Routine maintenance and repairs have been the responsibility of the
local thana office of BADC. Under the present policy of privatization, these
tasks will be handed over to private enterprise in the future. BADC will,
however, maintain stocks of spare parts and supply these to selected private
workshops on demand.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
Selection of Development Area
57.       In delineating an area for deep tubewell irrigation, the following
factors should be considered:
(a) Demand for groundwater irrigation among the farmers
of the area.
(b) The farmers' ability to operate an installed facility
reasonably efficiently and economically.



- 59 -                            ANNEX 1
Page l1
(c)  Potential interference of the proposed developments
with existing facilities.
(d)  '-lie farmers' ability to pay such rental or purchase
charges and operating costs as would be involved.
(e)  Aquifer conditions such as transmission and storage
water levels and groundwater quality.
(f)  The potential of the aquifer system to be exploited
to support the proposed development on safe yield
basis (or any other acceptable basis stipulated).
(g)  Suitability of the area for deep tubewell development,
or rather its unsuitability for any cheaper form of
development.
(h)  Data base with respect to design of a viable develop-
ment project.
(i)  Overlap with other ongoing or planned development
projects.
(j)  Relation of the project area boundary and those of
the administrative regions from the point of view
of facilitating cooperation with the local admin-
istration.
(k)  Economic and financial viability of the proposed
project.
58.       The project area has been selected according to these criteria and
comprises 35 th-anas in total, including 10 thanas of Mymensingh, 11 thanas
of Kishorgaj and 14 thanas of Dacca district (Table 5). The gross area is
abut 2,568,100 acres of which some 1,874,100 acres (or 73%) is classed as
cultivable land.
Development Potential
59.       The proposed development of 4,000 DTWs would abstract groundwater
at a rate of about 1 million acre-feet. This would make the total abstrac-
tions in the project area still only about half of the estimated potential
recharge.
60.       Because of the weakness of the data base, more intensive abstrac-
tions are not recommended at present. The digital model of the groundwater



-60 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 12
reservoir, to be constructed as a part of the project, should help accurately
to quantify accurately the maximum safe yield of the aquifer in the project
area, provided that it is constructed on the basis of sound data and is
properly calibrated.
61.       The problem of well spacing or rather the minimum permissible
distance between adjacent wells has received much attention in the past.
This is not now considered important and in the future the established
criterion of spacing greater than 2,500 feet should be relaxed. Particular
cases of groundwater demand should be considered entirely on their own
economic merit, provided that the safe yield of the aquifer as a whole is not
exceeded. In cases where it is proposed to install two of more DTW close
together (say less than 1,000 feet apart), it is recommended that their
probable mutual interference is evaluated and these effects taken into
account at the design stage.
Well Design
62.       The objective of sound well design is to produce the required
quantity of water, of acceptable quality, over a specified period of time, at
the lowest possible cost. This objective is best achieved, or at least
approached, by adopting generally accepted hydraulic concepts, sometimes
modified in the light of local experience.
63.       Fixed well components currently being used for deep tubewels in
Bangladesh appear satisfactory. These are mild steel 14" dia. upper well
casng (locally made), 6" dia. galvanized (GI grade) lower well casing and 6"
dia. GRP slotted screen. The lengths and disposition of the various com-
ponents used may not be optimum but should be accepted until better criteria
can be evolved on the basis of analysis of past records and of the early
tubewells of this project.
64.       The design of gravel pack grading and screen slot size should be
such as to ensure reasonable well efficiency and long-term production of sand
free discharge. Though little formation grain size data are available, on
present evidence, different slot sizes and gravel filters appear appropriate
for the north (Mymensingh and Kishorganj) and the South (Dacca) of the
project area:



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13
North                 South
Screen Slot Size                  0.006 (1.5 mm)        0.004 (1.0 mm)
Gravel Filter
Sieve size (mm)                      Cumulative percent passing
3,500                              100
4,760                               80-90                  100
3,180                               50-70                   85-95
2,000                               25-50                   75-85
1,000                                5-15                   10-15
600                                0                       5-15
425                                -                       0
These criteria should be reviewed periodically in the light of available
formation grain size data.
65.       There is some evidence that in part of the project area the forma-
tion contains an appreciable gravel fraction. In such cases, naturally
developed wells (without a gravel pack), equipped with stainless steel
wire-wound screens may be considerably more efficient than the standard
design. Provision is made t include 10% of such wells in this project.
66.       Well development at present is by overpumping with back-washing
using a turbine test pump. Development is taken as completed when the dis-
charge becomes clear and sand-free. This is satisfactory for gravel packed
wells but natural development should be with a powerful compressor and may
take longer. Project funds have been allocated for the procurement of two
such compressors (200 psi, 6,0 cfm).
67.       The connections between lengths of steel casing and screen should
be either welded or of the threaded type. Where two different metals are
used such as mild and stainless steel, couplings with insulators should be
used to minimize electrolytic corrosion. Connections of the spigot and
groove type, normally used for GRP screen, are considered satisfactory.
Screen and Casing Requirements
68.       The quantities of screen and casing to be procured under the
project were calculated on the basis of and the designs discussed above.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14
Average Amount             No. of
Used per Well               Wells           Total
(ft)                                     (ft)
Upper wWell casing                     80                    4,000          320,000
Lower well casing                    100                     4,000          400,000
GRP screen (0.004" slot)             120                     1,800          216,000
GRP screen (0.006" slot)             120                     1,800          216,000
Stainless steel screen               120                       400           48,000
Pumps and Motors
69.        Shaft driven vertical turbine pumps with operational speeds of
1,500 rpm, standard for existing BADC DTWs are considered satisfactory. The
preparation report estimates the required numbers of pumps of various duties
(all of 2 cusecs discharge rates) on the basis of the UNDP report (1981) with
respect to static water level and specific drawdown:
Pump category                          1     2      3     4      5
Lowest rate WL* (ft)                 15    20    20    35    35
Lowest normal working WL (ft)        30    40    50    60    70
Pump mounting above GL** (ft)          2     2      2      2     2
Static head (ft)                     32    52    52    62    72
Number of pumps                   1,650   700   350   700   400
*WL - water level
**GL - ground level
The required number of pumps of various categories should be reviewed in the
light of the pre-project analysis of the characteristics of existing wells.
70.        These pumps would be powered by diesel engines mounted on rigid
concrete foundations. The engine horsepower requirements for various pump
categories, assuming overall pump efficiency of 60%, were computed as follos:
Pump category                          1     2      3     4      5
Static head (ft)                     32    42    52    62    72
Velocity head - assumed (ft)          0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5
Friction losses - estimated (ft)   2.0   2.6   3.2   3.9   4.5
Total head (ft)                      34.5  45.1  55.7  66.4  77.0
Required BHP                         13    17    21    25    29
For simplicity this should be nationalized into two or three types such as 21
and 30 BHP or 15, 25 and 30 BHP. The exact numers of each kind required
should be decided on the basis of the pre-project review of the performance
of existing wells.



- 63 -                          ANNEX I
Page 15
71.       In selecting diesel engine type and make two other major factors
should be considered:
(a)  Standardization of new engines with those already
in operation in Bangladesh, for ease of maintenance
and repairs.
(b)  Willingness of the supplier to set up engine recondi-
tioning (particularly crankshaft regrinding) facili-
ties in Bangladesh.
In this context, it is relevant to list the number of diesel engines of the
type that are or can be used for powering deep tubewell pumps already in
Bangladesh (Table 6).
72.       In addition to the diesel/turbine pumpsets, it is proposed to
provide and install 400 electrical submersible pumpsets for use in DTWs in an
area (or areas) where electric power can be made available. The exact duties
of these would be specified at the inception/planning stage of the project.
Diesel Fuel
73.       Petroleum products are imported to Bangladesh by the Petroleum
Corporation. Diesel oil is refined either abroad or at the refinery in
Chittagong. For agricultural use, diesel and lubricants are retailed by BADC
at Tk 24.5 and Tk 93.5 per imperial gallon, respectively, which is slightly
lower than the prices of other supplies.
74.       At the end of the project, the estimated quantity of diesel likely
to be required in the peak irrigation month for all the old and newly ins-
taled pumping facilitiesis estimated at about 2.5 million gallons. Existing
BADC storage facilities in the project area are for about 700,000 gallons,
mainly in 25,000 and 50,0000 gallon tanks, usually at thana headquarters.
75.       It is likely that with the projected increase in operational
tubewells, additional diesel storage would be required. It is, however, GOB
policy not to increase BADC's facilities further, but to encourage private
enterprise to undertake petroleum product storage, distribution and retail-
ing. It is understood that credit is available for this purpose.
Electrification
76.       The electricity grid system in Bangladesh is divided into two areas
covering the western and eastern sides of the Brahmaputra. An interconnec-
tor, under construction to unify the two systems would be completed in 1982.
The project availability of electric power in the future is shown in Table 7.



-64 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 16
It shows that before the completion of the interconnector, power shortages
may occur, but from 1983 on, a surplus generating capacity should be avail-
able.
77.       The electricity distribution network in rural Bangladesh is
extremely limited. In the project area, there are 230 kV transmission lines
to the east and west of Dacca and a 132 kV line passing northward through the
area via Mymensingh towards Jamalpur. Electrification of the project
tubewells would be based on offtakes from this line.
78.       Detailed plans for the proposed electrification of 400 deep
tubewells would be made in the early stages of the project. It is envisaged
that one or two well fields would be electrified and that the project would
finance the distribution downstream of 132 KV line that is 132/33 KV and
33/11 KV substations, 33 KV, 11 KV and LV transmission lines, pole trans-
formers, various isolators and connectors and individual well connections.
Implementation Capacity
79.       Under the MTFPP and the second five year plan, the GOB schedule
for deep tubewell installation for the period 1980-1985 is:
18,000 DTWs to be installed.
17,000 DTWs to be commissioned.
So far some 1,250 DTWs have been constructed in the 1980-1981 dry season.
80.       All the DTWs are to be installed by local drilling contractors.
Since contractors cannot import foreign made equipment without paying
prohibitative duties, BADC does all the importing and then sells the equip-
ment to contractors. The state of drilling machinery in Bangladesh is as
follows:
(a) Already in the country and in working
order (owned by contractors)                    37 drilling rigs
(b)  Already procured by BADC and expected
to be sold to contractors by end-
February 1982                                   25 drilling rigs
(c) Being procured by BADC; expected to be
sold to contractors by end-February 1982    18 drilling rigs
(d) To be procured by the project; should be
sold to contractors by the end of 1982          25 drilling rigs



-65 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 17
81.       It is estimated that each rig can install between 30 and 60 DTWs
per dry season. Thus, the yearly capacity of the Bangladesh drilling
industry should be approximately:
1980-1981                1,110-2,220 DTWs
1981-1982                1,790-3,580 DTWs
1982-1983                2,900-5,800 DTWs
1983-1984                3,150-6,300 DTWs
1984-1985                3,150-6,300 DTWs
82.       The actual rates of construction attained will also depend on the
availability of imported auxiliary equipment. The lack of such equipment is
a serious constraint at present. Therefore, the project would finance the
procurement of the following:
For the drilling rigs to be financed by the project
50 tractors and trailers
25 generators (6 kw)
25 arc welding sets
12 compressors (100 psi, 300 cfm)
2 compressors (200 psi, 600 cfm)
25 test pumpsets
For the drilling rigs procured by BADC and those aleady with contractors
90 tractors and trailers
45 generators (6 kw)
60 are welding sets
23 compressors (100 psi 300 cfm)
30 test pump sets
This equipment is generally used at rig sites during well construction,
except for the two large compressors (200 psi, 600 cfm) which are specifi-
cally intended for the development of the proposed 400 naturally developed
wells.
83.       The availability of skilled drilling personnel could also be a
constraint to well installation rates. However, it is the unanimous opinion
of all groundwater agencies and the contractors that a sufficient pool of
skilled drillers exists in Bangladesh to make efficient use of the proposed
influx of new drilling and auxiliary machinery.
84.       In addition to the contractors equipped with heavy machinery, there
are some 80 firms specializing in the manual jetting well installation tech-
nique with an estimated capacity to construct about 1,200 tubewells per year.
They are mainly involved in shallow tubewell construction and reservations



- 66 -                         ANNEX I
Page 18
have been expressed about this as a method to be used for DTW installation.
A thorough evaluation of this subject is required and should be done at the
beginning of the project.
85.       Apart from strengthening the contractors capabilities by supplying
them with imported equipment, the project would also strengthen BADC's
capacity to supervise the contractors' work by providing them with supporting
facilities such as transport and office accommodations and the following
extra staff:
(a) One Superintending Engineer with supporting staff in
Dacca; he would be in overall charge of the project;
(b) Three Executive Engineers to be stationed in Mymensingh,
Kirshorgang and Dacca; they would overses the project
activities in the regions;
(c) Nine Assistant Engineers, three of which would come
under each Executive Engineer; and
(d) 50 sectional officers who would provide field
supervision of tubewell installation.



BbNGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT II
Cainozoic Geology of Bangladesh
Age                  Formation or Group                          Lithology                                       Hydrogeological Significance
Recent to sub-recent       Alluvium                         Coast- swamp and deltaic deposits; Piedmont                Aituvial sands form highly productive
- silt, sand and gravel; Alluvium - flood                  an;.--rz
plain Pnd inter-stream clay, silt sands and
gravel.' Variable thickness, but can be
over 3,000 ft.
Pleistocene                Dihing (Madhupur and             Mainly clay with sand and pebbles, exposed                 Sands are productive.  Clay forms
Barind Clav)                    on the Barind and Madhupur Tract, usually                   substantial aquiclude/aquitard
described as 'old alluvium'. Up to 150 ft
thicl'
U  N  C  O  N  F  O  R  M  I  T  Y_
Late Miocene to            Dupi Tila                        Unconsolidated fluviatile sands, 60-900 ft                 Good aquifer potentia , but only
Pliocene                                                    thick                                                      accessible by deep drilling except
in Sylhet
Ul N C 0 N F 0 R M I T Y
Middle Miocene             Tipam (U. Miocene                Geosynclinal facies is mudstone (ailtstone/                All aouicludes or aquitardscpart
shelf facies)                   sandstone (3,200 ft) over Tipam sandstone                   from Tipam Sandq?t^n.  -h!ch forms
XEarly Miocene             Surma (Geosynclinal              (4,000 it) over Baka Bil (6,000 ft) and Bubil              a low permeability sufer.
facies)                         (13,000 ft) which is shale/mudstonelsiltstone.
sandstone sequence.  Miocene shelf facies
(Surat) is condensed version of same (1,350 ft)
U N C O N F O R MITY                                                        _           _
Oligocene                  Barail                           Geosynclinal facies is Jenam formation, carbona-           Aquicludeo
ceous shale, siltatone, sandstone (over 2,000 ft).
Shelf facies is shale of the Bogra fnrmation
(535 ftW
Late Eocene                                                Kopili - carbonaceous shale with sandstone and              Aquiclude
limestone including coal(SOO ft +)
Middle Eocene              Jaintia                          Sylhet limestone - fossiliferous limestone and             Poor aquife- with highly mineralized
minor sandstone, Not always present.                       water
Palaeocene-                Jaintia                         Tura sandstone (790 ft) - sequence includes                 Sandstone are poor aq;lifers with highly
Early Focene                                                coal, shale and sandstone                                 mineralised water.                                     -
U N C O N F O R M I T Y
C r e t a c e o u s         a n d         E a r I i e r
Source, Report of the Bangladesh Deep Tubewells Project - Preparation Mission
FAO/CP Report No. 37/8/BGD 27 dated 6 October 1981.



(ft 2/8e)                    permeability
(lo 103ft/seC
Nandail           62                  0.106                         1.06
74                  0.134                         1.12
25                  0.202                         168"
22                  0.205                         1 71
29                  0. 261                        1. 54
30                  0.209                         1.26
37                  0.127                         0.91
69                  0.097                         0. 59
49                  0.120                         1.00
43                  0.220                         1.47
42                  0.144                         0.43
Tria.1            17                  0.173                         1.44
30                  0.134                         1.12
29                  0.186                         1.55
27                  0.205                 -       1.71
45                  0.216                         1.80
11                  0.173                         1.44
12                  0.133                         1.11
44                  0.125                         1.04
61                  0.081                         0.677
63                  0.155                         1.29
14                  0.195                         1.63
28                  0.110                         0.92
Phulbari.         13                  0.129                         1.07
17                  0.168                         1.40
2                  0.121                         1.01
1                  0.115                         0.96
8                  0.126                         1.05
14                  0.086                         0. 79
5                  0.155                         1.29
16                  0.134                         1. 12
25                  0.168                         1.40
9                  0.121                         1.01
12                  0.109                         0.91
Kiehorg.nj                B.Jitpur           27                  0.110                         1.10
50                  0. 151                        1. 26
49                  0.064                         0. 58
37                  0.115                         1.05
11                  0.093                         0.85
48                  0.093                         0.85
D cca                                    DA  1                   0.074                                                  UNDP RAport 1981
DA  2                  0.063                                                                  a-
DA  3                  0,052
IM  4                  0.150                                                    a     a
DA  5                  0.151                                                    C     0       .
DA  6                  0,157                                                    .
DA  7                  0.224
Co-ille                                  Co  1                   0.077
CO  2                  0.044                                                    .
CO  3                  0.042
CO  4                  0.155                                                    "     a,      "
CO  5                  0.111      
Co  6                  0.040
CO  7                  0.116                                                    '
CO  8                  0.140                                                    "'
Co  9                  0.062                                                    ""
Co 10                  0.030                                                                                     a "  "   !
Co 11                  0.057
CO 12                  0.29
Sylht                                    SY  1                   0.019
SY  2                  0.148
Source:  Report of the Bangladesh Deep Tube.well Project Preparation Mission
FAO/CP Reporr No. 3718/8ibCD 27 dated 6 October 1981.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL P8RJECT II
Aquifer Transmission Properties
District                   Thana            Well No               Trarmaissivity             Average Lateral                  Source
(ft Isec)                  Permeaility
(x 10  ft/sec)
Mymensingh                                  MY 1                   0.313                                                      UNDP Report 1981
MY 2                   0.038                                                       "
MY 3                   0.065
MY 4                   0.085
MY 5                   0.226
MY 6                   0.106
KY 7                   0.086
MY 8                   0.197                                                      *-    99      .
Halaughet           1                  0.138                          1.26                        MKP private Co.m.
32                   0.327                          2.73                        "      " 
31                  0.202                           1.68                               "
8                  0.147                           1.23                        "
7                  0.216                          1.80
35                  0.157                           1.31                        "      "
24                  0.132                           1 20
27                  0.186                           1.55
13                  0.242                           2.02
16                  0.378                           3.15                               "
17                  0.269                           2.24
79                  0.149                           1.35                        "
10                  0.149                           1.24
25                  0.205                           1 71
Phulpur           40                   0.186                          1.55                         "      "                                            o.
30                   0.149                          1.24                        "
22                  0.220                           1.83                               "
72                  0.281                           2.34                        "      " 
76                  0.157                           1.31
79                  0.403                           3.36                        "
25                  0.212                           1.17 7"
59                  0.303                           2.54                        "      " 
61                   0.281                          2.56                        "      " 
19                  0.165                           1.37                            '         9
104                   0.303                          2.52                        "      "      9
100                   0.233                          1.94                        "      "
42                   0.302                          2.52                        "      "
67                   0.432                          3,60
102                   0.403                          3.36                        "      "
Muktagacha         58                   0.082                          0.68                         "
14                  0.097                          0.81                         "
13                  0.151                           1.26                        "      "      '
35                  0.121                           1,01                               "      '
54                  0 132                           1.10                        "      "      '
2                  0.201                           1.68                               " "
8                  0.144                           1 20                        "      " 
70                  0.168                           1.40                        "      "      9
12                  0.114                           1.04                        "      "     "
63                   0.084                          0.70                        "      "      9
43                  0.153                           1.28                        "      "      " 
60                  0.081                           0.67
18                  0.106                          0.88                         "      "
76                  0.155                          1.28                         "
38                  0.149                           1.24                        "      "                                             0
20                  0.086                           0.72                        "      "
71                  0.152                           1.27                                                                             c
27                  0.182                          1.51                                      *
73                  0.134                           1.12                        "
67                  0.142                           1.19                        "      "9
6                  0.176                           1.46                        "      "
24                  0.130                           1.08                        "      "
77                  0.161                           1.34                        "
72                  0.103                          0.86                         "
9                  0.274                          2.29                         "
22                  0.220                           1.83                        "



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT II
Estimates of Potential Annual Recharge
Region               Average Annual        Annual Potential           Surplus         Potential Annual Recharge
Rainfall           Evapotranspiration        (inches)          (Maximum-Minimum)
(Inches)               (Inches)                                        (Inches)
Barisal/Patuakhali              87.8                 42.9                    44.9            30.3 - 16.1                   C
Bogra                           70.9                 41.3                    29.6            18.5 -  9.4
Chittagong                     120.1                 48.4                    71.7            51.6 - 31.5
Comilla                         82.7                 48.4                    34.3            21.7 - 10.2
Dacca                           79.1                  50.4                   28.7            17.3 -  7.9
Dinajpur                        78.7                 39.4                    38.7            26.0 - 14.6
Faridpur                        72.0                 46.1                    25.9            15.7 -  6.7
Jessore                         66.5                 42.1                    24.4            14.2 -  7.5
Khulna                          69.7                 42.1                    27.6            16.5 -  4.7
Mymensingh/Jamalpur             94.1                 45.3                    48.8            33.9 - 18.9 
Noakhali                       119.3                 47.2                    72.1            52.4 - 32.7                  e m
Pabna/Kushtia                   60.6                 41.7                    18.9            11 4 -  5.1
Rajshahi                        56.3                 42.1                    14.2             7.5 -  3.1
Rangpur                         83.1                 43.7                    39.4            26.4 - 13.8
Sylhet                         162.6                 42.1                   120.5            89.4 - 61.0
Source:  Report of the Bangladesh Deep Tubewells Project Preparation MissinT -
FAO/CP Report No. 37/8/BGD 27 dated 6 October 1981.



BANGLADE'TI
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT II
BADC Deep Tubewell Installation Record
Year       Bangladesh                  Dacca Region                    Mymensingh Region                 Kishorgani Region
In Year    Cumulative        In Year   Cumulative            In Year          Cumulative       In Year           Cumulative
1967-68       -            106            10            10                20                20               -
1968-69      292           398             7            17                31                51               -
1969-70      662          1060            38            55                56               107                -
1970-71       51          1111             6            61                 -               107               -
1971-72      221          1332              5           66                14               121               -                   -
1972-73      872          2204           296          362                217               338              49                  49
1973-74    1778           3982           329          691                575               913               -                  49
1974-75    3178           7160           452         1143                163              1076             452                 501
1975-76    1656           8816           259         1402                197              1273              65                 566
1976-77      936          9752            88         1490                110              1383              65                 631
1977-78    1271          11024           161         1651                 50              1433              30                 661               X x
1978-79      335         11358            77         1728                 10              1443               1                 662               t v
1979-80      369         11727            23         1751                 74              1593               3                 665
1980-81    1250          12977                                            76              1593               3                 668
Sotrce:  BADC, Bangladesh, Dacca,



BANGIADI'SH
DEEP TUBEWfELL PROJECT IT
Gross, Net and Irrigated Acrreas  in Prozct Area
District             Gross Area                  Net Cultivable Area                    Area Irrigated by
and Thana                Acres                   Acres           P.                     DTW, STW and LLP
(Acres)        (7 of CA)
MYMENSTNGH
Nandail               80,600                     66,800           82.9                   4,300              6.4
Iswarganj            68,800                      55,500           80.7                   1,400              2.5
Phulpur              164,500                    138,500           84.2                  10,500              7.6
Halaughat            105,600                     81,700           77.4                  15,000             18.4
Ghaffargaon           98,600                     84,500           81.2                  15,900             18.8
Trishal               62,100                     50,400           81.2                   5,400             10.7
Muktagacha            77,400                     59,600           77.0                   6,900             11'6
Kotwali               93,400                     78,400           83.9                   3,400              4.3
Bhaluka             109,400                      54,100           49.5                   8,500             15.7
Phulbaria            104,300                     70,300           67.4                  13.100             18.6
Sub-Total           964,700                     739,800           76.7                  84,400             11.4
KISH(ORGANJ
Kishorganj            44,200                     27,300           61.8                   3,800             13.9
Terail                35,200                     28,300           80.4                   2,900             10.2
Karimgonj             49,200                     42,000           85.4                   5,000             11.9
Hossainpur            29,400                     25,100           85.4                   4,000             15.9
Pakundia              44,200                     32,200           72.9                   4,000             12.4
Katiadi               55,000                     39,300           71.5                   5,100             13.0
Bajitpur              46,800                     39,000           83.3                  13,300             34.1
Purbadhala            85,800                     46,600           54.3                  14,900             32.0
Atpara                47,400                     25,200           53.2                   5,100             20.2
Kendua                82,600                     69,800           84.5                   5,200              7.4
Netrakona             77,400                     51.000           65.9                   7,800             15.3
Sub-Total            597,200                    425,800           71.3                  71,100             16.7
DACCA
Savar                 85,100                     58,200           68.4                  27,500             47.3
Kaliakor              77,400                     45,300           58.5                  23,500             51.9
Joydepuir             89,000                     57,100           64.2                  22,800             39.9
Sreepur              114,600                     73,300           64.0                   5,600              7.6
Kapasia               89,000                      57,300          64.4                   5,400              9.4
Raligonj              70,400                     46,900           66.6                  13,300             28.4
Manikgonj             48,600                     34,900           71.8                   7,700             22.1
Singair               53,800                     43,100           80.1                   4,000              9.3
Dhiamrai              74,900                     49,600           79.6                  22,500             37.8
Sat-uria              39,700                     28,900           72.8                   3,100             10.7
Narsingdi             52,500                     40,100           76.4                  15,900             39.7
Shibpur               55,700                     42,000           75.4                  11,000             26.2
Monohardi             61,400                     47,600           77.5                  13,400             28.2
Raipur                94,100                     74.200           78.9                  13.600             1R.'
Sub-Total         1,006,ZOO                     /08,500           70.4                 189,1O0             26.7            - -
TOTAL             2,568,100                   1,874,100           73.0                 344,800             18.4



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT II
Deep Tubewell Engines Imported to Bangladesh Upto Mid-1981
Manufacturer          Engine Model          Engine Type            Application         Ntumber Imported to Bangladesh                        Remarks
Ruston-Hornsby         2 YWA             Air cooled - fly          LLP & DTW                      15,550                              These models no longer manufactured
3 YWA             Wheel blower              DTW                             6,500                             in United Kingdom, but still made in India,
Deutz                  F 2L712           Air cooled -              LLP & DTW                       3,300                              Engine reconditioning facilities being met
F 2L812           belt driven               LLP & DTW                       4,960                             up in Bangladesh.  May soon start a local
F 2L912           fan                       LLP & DTW                       7,737                             assembling plant
MWM                    D 327-2           Air cooled-belt           DTW                             2,273
D 327-3           driven fan                DTW                               827
Lister                 HR-2              Air cooled-fly            DTW                             1,174                              Lister granted COB approval to start local
HR-3              wheel blower              DTW                               528                             manufacture
Russian                                  Water cooled              DTW                                200
Yanmar                 2 TLE             Water cooled              DT1W                               101                             Engine reconditioning facilities being set up
in Bangladesh.
Source: BADC



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT TI
Electricity Energy Balance for Bangladesh I/
(Megawatts)
Year 2/          1980       1981        1982       1983      1984         1985      1986        1987       1988        1989       1990
East Zone total capacity                                  426         436        586        676        732        1092      1292        1472       1622        1622       1772
East Zone firm capacity                      3/           321          331       471          -         -                      -          -           -          -           -
West Zone total capacity                                  200          246       226         349       293         239        288        288         288        438         438
West Zone firn capacity                                   132          158       138          -         -            -         -          -           -          -           -
Tnterconnected system total capacity                       -            -         -        1025       1025        1385      1580        1760       1910        2060       2210
Interconnected systemii firm capacity        4/            -            -         -         855       855         1025      1220        1400       1550        1700       1850        H  .
Maximutim demand estimate - East Zone                     338          392       436        485        539         600        686        783         895       1022        1168
Maximum demand estimate - West Zone                       124          150       183        224        274         336        384        439         502        573         655
Interconnected system maximum demand                       -            -         -         709        813         936      1070        1222       1397        1595       1823
1/ Source - World Bank - Rural Electrification Project Appraisal Mission.
Y Year ending June 30th,
3/ Firm capacity is total estimated capacity less two largest stations assumed under repair.
4/ InterconTector to connect East and West Zones diue to he completed end of 1982.



ANNEX 2
Table I
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT I_
Summary of Project Cost 1/
Components                         Local            Foreign            Total            Local            Foreign           Total           X of Total
(Tk million)                                         (Tk $ million)
A.  Procurement of 4,000 DTWs                       64             1,043              1,107             3.28              53.48           56.76              40.00
including spare parts
B.  Installation of 4,000 DTWs                     756               252              1,008            38.76              12.93           51.69              36.40
C.  Purchase of drilling rigs                       44               175                219             2.26               8.97           11.23                7.91
and auxiliary equipment
D.  Capital and incremental                         29                12                 41             1.48               0.62             2.10               1.48
operating costs for BADC
E.  Capital and incremental                         63                31                 94             3.23               1.59            4.82                3.39
operating costs for IRDP
F.  Consultancy services                            12                84                 96            0.62                4.30            4.92                3.49
including training and
studies
C.  Project evaluation                               5                 3                  8             0.26               0.15            0.41               0.29
Total Project Cust                       973             1,600              2,573           49.89               82.04          131.93
H.  Imported Diesel Fuel                             -               195                195              -               10.00            10.00               7.04
Total Cost                             973            1,795               2,768           49.89              92.04           141.33             100
(142)
1/ Based on tables in Annex 2
(Figures are rounded and include physical and price contingencies)



ANNEX 2
Table 2
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS 11 PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Purchase of DTW Components by IDA
(Tk '000)
Total
Unit            Year I                 Year 2                Year 3               Year 4                                  Foreign       7. of
Items                                    Cost        Unit        Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit      Cost       Unit       Cost        Exchange      F.E.
A.  Well Components
80 ft Upper Well Casings         2/   31,700          1,600   50,720       2,400    76,080                                                   4,000   126,800          72,276        57
120 ft Stainless Steel Screens-    40,400               400   16,160         -         -                                                       400      16,160        16,160       100
Reducers and Bail Plugs                 2,400         1,600    3,840       2,400       5,760                                                 4,000       9,600         9,600       100
Subtotal                                            70,720                81,840                                                           152,560         98,036        64
B.  Pumpsets
Diesel Engines                         78,400           800   62,720         350    27,440                                                    1,150    90,160         90,160       100
Spare parts - Diesel Engine-           15,680           -      12,544        -         5,488                                                    -       18,032         18,032      100
Turbine Pumps 4t                       59,500         1,600   95,200       1,000    59,500    1,000    59,500                                 3,600   214,200         214,200      100
Spare parts - Pumps 5/                  5,950           -       9,520        -        5,950                 5,950                               -       21,420        21,420       100
Addittonal Turbine Pumps 6/            59,500           -         -          200    11,900                   -                                  200    11,900          11,900      100
Subtotal                                           1/9,984               110,278               65,450                                      355,712        355,712       100
Total Base Cost                                   2504704                                      65 450                                                                    89
Physical Contingencies (5 7,)                                  12,535                 9,605                 3,273                                       25,413        22,687        89
Total                                             263 239                201 723               68 723                                                     476 435        89
Price Contingencies 7/                                         10,529                24,206                13,744                                       48,479        43,146        89
Grand Total                                                   7Z,268                225, 929              8 682,164                                                  517 581        89
1/  See Annex 2, Table 1.
2/  For experimental construction of naturally developed vells.
3/ At 20% of engine costs.
4/ Including gear head.
5/ At 10% of pump costs.
6/ For standby reuuirements in case of malor breakdowns.
7/  Price increase in foreign costs:  Year I - 8%; Year 2-4 = 7.5%.  Price increasein  local costs:  Year 1   15%; Year 2   13%; Year 3   11%; Year 4 = 10%.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Purchase of DTW Components by ODA
(Tk '000)
Total
Unit.!'           Year I               Year 2               Year 3             Year 4                                  Foreign       X Of
Items                                Cost          Unit       Cost      Unit       Cost       Unit    Cost       Unit      Cost        Unit     Cost        Exchange      F-..
A.  Well Components
100 ft Lower Well Casings           19,950        1,300    25,935      1,400    27,930       1,300    25,935                          4,000    79,800       79,800        100
120 ft GRP Screen                   27,300        1,200    32,760      1,200    32,760       1,200    32,760                          3,600    98,280       98,280        100
Subtotal                                         58,695               60,690                58,695                                  178,080      178,080        100
B.  Pumpsets
Diesel Engines                      63,000          800    50,400         800    50,400        850    53,550                          2,450   154,350      154,350        100
Spare parts - Diesel EngineY2       12,600          -       10,080        -      10,080        -       10,710                           -       30,870      30,870         100
Electric Pumpsets                   94,500          100      9,450        100     9,450        200    18,900                            400    37,800       37,800        100
Spare parts - El. Pumps 3/           9,450          -          945        -         945        -        1,890                           -        3,780       3,780        100
Additional Diesel Engines 4/        63,000          -          -          200    12,600                   -                             200    12,600        12,600        100
Subtotal                                         70,875               83,475                85,050                                  239,400      239,400        100
Total Base Cost                                 129570144165                               1437415                                  417.480      4176480        100
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                12,957               14,416                14,374                                  41,748       41,748         100
Total                                           142 527                         158,119                                             459o228      459 228         0
Price Contingencies 5/                                       6,413               22,051                37,257                                  65,721       65,721         100
Grand Total                                                148.940              180.632               195.376                                  524,949      5              100
1/  Based on information provided by the "Overseas Development Administration"(ODA - Great Britain).
2/  At 20% of engine cost.
3/  At 10% of pumpset and gear cost.
41 For standby requirements in case of major breakdowns.
5/ 1983/84 - 9%; 1984/85 - 8%; 1985/86 - 8%.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Cost Estimate - Installation of 4,000 DTW1!
(Tk '000)
Total
Year  1              Year .2               Year  3               Year  4                                  Foreign       %
IJnit    Cost       Unit        Cost       Unit       Cost       Unit       Coat       Unit       Cost       Exchange       F.E,
A.  Installation Cost
Port Charges and
Internal Transportation-.              -      23,063        -       19,943         -      13,597         -         -           -       56,603       24,905        44
Construction 3/                         400    45,200        1,200   134,100       1,200   134,100       1,200   132,600       4,000   446,000       142,720         32
BADC Supervision Cost 4/                400    10,360       1,200    34,650        1,200    34,650       1,200    41,900       4,000   121,560        20,665         17
Subtotal                                  78,623               188,693               182,347               174,500               624,163       188,290        30
B.  Taxes and Duties 5/                              53,222                46,023                31,379                                     130,624          -           -
Total Base Costs                                                     234,716                213,726               174,500               754.787      188,290         25
Physical Contingencies (5%)                      6,592                11,736                 10,686                 8,725                37,739        9,435         25
Total                                    138,437               246,452               224.412               183.225               792,526       197,725        25
Price Contingencies 6/                           9,171                48,088                 73,494                84,740               215,493       53,873         25
Grand Total                                    147,608               294,540                297,906               267,965             1.008,019      251,598         25
1/  Based on information received by BADC.  Prices have been adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/ Estimated at 6.5% of F.E, of imported materials. See Annex 2, Table 5.
3/ See Annex 2, Table 5.
4/ Estimated at 7.5% of all costs.
5/ Estimated at 15% of F.E. of imported materials.
6/ Price increase in foreign costs: Year I = 8%; Year 2-4 - 7.5%.
Price increase in local costs: Year 1 = 15%; Year 2 = 13%; Year 3 = 11%; Year 4 = 10%.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Unit Cost of Different Tyvpes of TW!
(Tk)
Cost                            Standard Diesel                       Standard Electric                      Stainless Steel Screen
Item                               Unit    Local Cost  Foreign Ex. Total Cost                  Engine Well                            Motor Well                            Diesel Engine Well
Quantity       P.E.         Total    Quantity          F.E.         Total      Quantity         P.E.         Total
A. Materials
Diesel Engine-               Lump Sum       -         78,400.00    78.400.00       1         78,400.00   78,400.00                                                 1          78,400.00    78,400.00
Gear Head, Et2.              Lump Sum       -         13,000.00    13,000.00       1         13,000.00   13,000.00                                                  1         13,000.00    13,000.00
Turbine Pump-                Lump Sum   22,400.00   24,100.00    46.500.00         1         24,100.00   46,500.00                                                  1         24,100.00    46,500.00
Electric Submers.Y
Pump Motor                  Lump Sum       -         67,300.00    67,300.00       -                                      1          67,300.00    67,300.00
Discharge Pipe               Lump Sum       -          9,700.00      9,700.00      -                                      1           9,700.00      9,700.00
Switchgear, etc.             Lump Sum       -         20,500.00    20.500.00       -                                      1          20,500.00    20,500.00
Electric Power
Transmission per well       Lump Sum  100,000.00  150,000.00   250,000.00         -                                      1         150,000.00   250,000.00
Upper Well Cng (14")4/       Lin. ft.       171.25       225.00        396.25    80          18,000.00   31,700.00       80          18,000.00    31,700.00       80           18,000.00    31,700.00
Lower Well Cng (6")          Lm. ft.        -            120.00        120.00   100          12,000.00   12,000.00    100            12,000.O0    12,000.00    100            12,000.00    12,000.00
GRP Screen (6")              lin. ft.       -            252.50        252.50   120          30,300.00   30,300.00    120            30,300.00    30.300.00
Reducer & Bail Plug          Lump Sum       -          2,400.00      2,400.00      1          2,400.00    2,400.00        1           2,400.00      2,400.00        1           2,400.00      2,400.00
Stainless Steel Wire
Wound Screen                Lin. ft.       -            336.50        335.50                                                                                    120           40,400.00    40,400.00
Sub-total   178 200.00  214,300.00  Sub-total    310,200.00   423,900.00  Sub-total    188,300.00   224,400.00              X
B.  Port Charges 6
Internal Transport          6.5 of F.E. of Materials                          Sub-total      5,100.00   11,600.00  Sub-total         8,900O.00    20,200.00  Sub-total        5,400.00    12,200.00
C. lnstallation-
Mobilisation                 Lump Sum    7,200.00    5,800.00    13,000.00         1          5,800.00   13,000.00        1           5,800.00    13,000.00         1           5,800.00    13,000.00
Drilling (any dia
up to 22")                  Lin. ft.        44.00        36.00         80.00   300          10,800.00   24,000.00    300            10,800.00    24,000.00    300             10,800.00    24,000.00
Install Casing & Screen    Lin. ft.          11.00         9.00         20.00   300           2,700.00    6,000.00    300             2,700.00      6,000.00    300             2,700.00      6,000.00
Supply & Install Gravel
Pack                        Lin. ft.        50.00       -              50.00   300             -         15,000.00    300              -          15,000.00
Develop & Test               Lump Sum    2,800.00    4,200.00        7,000.00      1          4,200.00    7,000.00        1           4,000.00       7,000.00       1           4,200.00      7,000.00
Install Pump & Motor         Lump Sum    5,000.00    3,000.00        8,000.00      1          3,000.00    8,000.00        1           3,000.00      8,000.00        1           3,000.00      8,000.00
Construct Well House         Lump Sum   27,200.00    6,800.00    34,000.00         1          6,800.00   34,000.00        1           6,800.00    34,000.00         1           6,800.00    39,000.00
Commissioning                Lump Sum    3,300.00    2,700.00        6,000.00      1          2,700.00    6,000.00        1           2,700.00      6,000.00        1           2,700.00      6,000.00
Sub-total    36,000.00  113,000.00  Sub-total         36,000.00   113,000.00  Sub-total        36,000.00    98,000.00
D. BADC Supervision
D usts                      7.5% of all costs (A + B + C + E)                 Sub-total      4,700.00   27,400.00  Sub-total         7,800.00    45,300.00  Sub-total          4,700.00    27,200.00
E. Taxes and Duties              15% of F.E. of Materials (A)                      Sub-total        -         26,700.00  Sub-total           -         46,500.00  Sub-total           -          28,200.00    m
TOTAL        224,000.00  393,000.00  TOTAL           362,900.00   648,900.00  TOTAL           234,400.00   390,000.00
-/Based on October 1981 prices provided by manufacturers and BADC and adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982 (figures are rounded).
-/ Imported Engine
-/Assuming imported partially manufactured parts with machining and assembly done locally.
-/ Assuming mild steel locally produced from imported sheet.
-/ Based on BADC tender documents. Foreign exchange component estimated by mission.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Operation and Maintenance Costs for DTW (Diesel Powered)
(Tk)
Madhupur Tract            Madhupur Tract                 Old Brahmaputra                Old Brahmaputra
Well Drained Soils        Poorly Drained Soils           Flood Plain - Poorly           Flood Plain - Well
Drained Soils                  Drained Soils
A.  Crops and Irrigation Requirements
Cropping pattern                           Aus/Wheat                 Aman/Boro                       Aman/Boro                       Aman/Wheat
Area irrigated at full development
(acres)                                       80                        80                               80                              80
Irrigation requirements (inch) 1/              16.61                    36.52                            36.52                           16.00
Irrigation requirements ('000 ft3)         4,823                    10,605                           10,605                           4,646
Hours run per 2 cusec DTW                    670                      1473                             1473                             645
B.  Costs per Cropping Pattern
Pay of operator 2/                           1500                     2200                             2200                            1500
Diesel 3/                                   17420                    38298                            38298                           16770
Lubricant 4/                                  552                     1215                             1215                             530
Well maintenance and repairs 5/             8070                     17750                            17750                            7770
Channel reconstruction 6/                    1950                     1950                             1950                            1950
Channel maintenance 7/                      2000                      3000                             3000                            2000
Miscellaneous expenses                       1000                     1000                             1000                            1000
Total                    32492                     65413                            65413                          31.520
C.  Operating and Maintenance Costs
per Acre                                   406                       818                              818                             394
1/   See Annex 5, Table 4
2/   Seasonal Lump Sum
3/   Assume 20 hp engine  consuming 0.05 gallons/hp hour.   Estimated farm-gate price is Tk 26/imperial gallon.
4/   Assume oil consumption at 0.75% of fuel consumption.  Farm-gate price estimated at Tk 110/imperial gallon.
5/   Taken as 5% of the capital cost of pump and engine(including taxes and duties) per 1000 running hours.
6/   Channels are generally reconstructed each year.  Estimated at 130 days work at Tk/15/day for 80 acres.
7/   Seasonal salary of two part-time ditch riders.  Mission estimate.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Operating and Maintenance Costs for DTW (Electrically Powered)
(Tk)
Madhupur Tract               Madhupur Tract                Old Brahmaputra                      Old Brahmaputra
Well Drained Soils           Poorly Drained Soils          Flood Plain - Poorly                 Flood Plain - Well
Drained Soils                       Drained Soils
A.  Crops and Irrigation Requirements
Cropping pattern                             Aus/Wheat                    Aman/Boro                      Aman/Boro                          Aman/Wheat
Area irrigated at full development
(acres)                                        80                           80                              80                                 80
Irrigation requirements (in) 1/                16.61                         36.52                          36.52                              16.00
Irrigation requirements ('000/ft3)          4,823                       10,605                          10,605                              4,646
Hours run per 2 cusec  DTW                    670                          1473                           1473                                645
B.  Costs per Cropping Pattern
Pay of  perator 2/                           1500                          2200                           2200                               1500
Electric power 37                           10715                         23786                          23786                              10290
Well maintenance and repairs 4/              4601                          6849                           6849                               4531
Channel reconstruction 5/                    1950                          1950                           1950                               1950
Channel maintenance 5/                       2000                          3000                           3000                               2000
Miscellaneous expenses                        1000                         1000                           1000                               1000
Total                    21766                        38785                           38785                              21271
C.  Operation and Mainteniance Costs
per acre                                    272                           485                            485                               266
1/  See Annex 5, Table 4
2/  Seasonal Lump Sum
3/ Assumed 50ft total lift,overall pump and motor efficiency 65X. Price of electricity taken as Tk 0.5/Kwhr for the first 250 units and
Tk 1.25 per Kwhr for the rest.
4/  Taken as 2.5X of the capital cost of the pumpset per 1000 running hours plus 1l  of the electricity distribution system per year
(including taxes and duties).
5/  See Annex 2, Table 3



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Cost of Drilling Rigs and Auxiliary Equipment-/
(Tk '000')
UnitJ/            Year 1                       Year 2                     Year 3                 Year 4                                    Total
Items                                    Cost          Unit        Cost           Unit       Cost              Unit        Cost        Unit       Cost          Unit      Cost      Foreign Exch.  2 F.E.
A.  New Drilling Rigs                   3.120                                      25        78,000                                                               25      78,000         62,400        80
B. Auxiliary Equipment
for New Rigs
Tractor and Trailers                  470                                      50        23,500                                                              50       23,500        18,800        80
Testing and Developing
Pumpsets                             294                                      12         3,528                                                              12        3,528         2,822        80
Arc Welding Sets                      102                                      25         2,550                                                              25        2,550         2,040         80
Generators  5 kwt/h                    59                                      25         1,475                                                              25        1.475         1,180        80
Compressors  100 psi  300 cfm         414                                      12         4,968                                                              12        4,968         3,974        80
Compressors  200 psi  600 cfm         589                                       2         1,178                                                               2        1,178           942        80
Subtotal A 6 B                                                                 115,199                                                                      115,199        92,158         80
C. Auxiliary Equipment for
Existing Rigs
Tractor and Trailers                  470           90       42,300                                                                                          90       42,300        33,840        80
Testing and Developing
Pumpsets                             294           30        8,820                                                                                          30        8,820         7,056        80
Arc Welding Sets                      102           60        6,120                                                                                          60        6,120         4,896         80
Generators  5 kwt/h                    59           45        2,655                                                                                          45        2,655         2,124        80
Compressors  100 psi  300 cfm         414           23        9,522                                                                                          23        9.522         7.617        80
Subtotal                                            69,417                                                                                                   69,417        55,533         80
Total Base Cost                                             69,417                     115,199                                                                      184,616       147,692        80
Physical Contingencies (7.5%)                                 5,206                       8,640                                                                       13,846        11,076        80
Subtotal                                             74,623                    123,839                                                                      198,462       158,768         80
Price Contingencies3/                                         3,506                      17,336                                                                       20,842        16,675        80
Grand Total                                             78,129                    141,175                                                                      219,304        175,443        80
I/Based on October 1981 prices provided by manufacturers and BADC and adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/Includes 15Z of import taxes and duties.                                                                                                                                                                 m x
3/ 1) Price increase on foreign costs:  year 1 - 8%; year 2 - 7.52
2) Price Increase on local costs:       year I - 15%; Year 2 - 13%: year 3 - 11%; year 4 - 10%.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Cost Eatimatel' - BADC Proiect Implerentatinn Unit                  I-XI
('ftC'                   ~~~~~~Foreigr.
Categories                          Unit           t us;          Year 1         Year 2        Year 3      Year 4          Cost          ExchangX F.E,
A. Staff Salaries and 2/
Allowances
Superintendent Engineer               1            58,Uu.          58.000        58,000        5.,000      58,000           232,000
Executive Engineer                    1            43.500         4d,,O0         43.500        43.500      43,500           174.000
Assistant Engineer                    2            29.'i00         58,000        58.000        58,000      58,000           232,000
Stenographer  (Sr. 1)                 1            19.'G0          19,400        19,400        19,400      19.400            77,600
Accountant                            1            18,100          18,100        18,100        18.100      18,100            72,400
Upper Division Assistant              1            15,700          15,700        15,700        15.700      15,700            62,800
Assistant Accountant                  1            15,700          15,700        15,700        15,700      15,700            62,800
Draftsman                             1            12,000          12,000        12,000        12,000      12,000            48,000
Cashier                               1            10,900          10,900        10,900        10,900      10,900            43,600
Lower Division Assistant              2            10,900          21,800        21,800        21,800      21,800            87,200
Driver                                2            10,900          21,800        21,800        21,800      21,800            87,200
Tracer                                1             8,500           8,500         8,500         8,500       8.500            34,000
Printing Machine Operator             1             7,300           7,300         7,300         7,300       7,300            29,200
Cash Guard                            1             7,300           7,300         7,300         7.300       7,300            29,200
Messenger                             1             6,700           6,700         6,700         6,700       6,700            26,800
Office Guard                          3             6,700          20,100        20,100        20,100      20,100            80,400
Sub-Total                                               344,800       344,800       344,800    344,800          1,379,200
B. Vehicles -/and Facilities
Car Car                                1           243,000        243,000                                                    243,000        138,510            57
4 x 4 Jeep (4 seater)                  1           375,000         375,000                                                   375,000        213,750            57
Office Furniture & Equipment -         1                           216,000                                                   216,000        129,600            60
Sub.Total                                               834,000                                                   834,000        481,860            58
C. Operating Costs
Vehicle -                                                      77,400         77,400        77,400      77,400          309,600         247,680           80
Office 6/                                                      44,600        44,600         44,600      44,600          178,400          17,840            10
Sub Total                                             122,000        122,000       122,000    122,000            488,000        265,520            54
Total Base Cost                                     1,300,800        466,800       466,800    466,800          2,701,200        747,380            28
Physical Contingencies (5X)                                        65,000         23,340        23,340      23,340           135,020         37,346            28
Total                                           1,365,800       490,140        490,140    490,140         2,836,220         784,726            28
Price Contingencies 7/                                              89,049        94,106       158,020    219,778            560,953        157,066            28
GRAND TOTAL                                              1,454,849       584,246       648,160    709,918          3,397,173        941,792            28
1/  Based on October 1981 prices provided by BADC and adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to tid-1982.
2/  Salaries have been set at the mid-point of the salary scale.  Allowances for rent and medical aid have been taken at the maximum for each category.                            'U
Travel allowance has been estimated at Tk 900.
3/  Vehicles have been costed at c.i.f Chittagong plus 42 port handling charges, 452 import duties and 202 sales tax.
4/  Office furniture and equipment including deskt (14), chairs (13), typewriters (3), 1 duplicating machine  3 electric print calculators and 10 pocket
calculators and a lump sum of Tk 33,000 for miscellaneous items.
5/ Operating cost of vehicles: Landrover (Diesel) 15,000 miles/year at Tk/26 gallon * Repairs and maintenance Tk 15,000/year.
Car (Fuel) 16,000 miles/year at Tk/50 gallon. Repairs and maintenanice Tk 12,000/year.
6/  Operating costs as a lump sum of Tk 44,600/year.
7/  1. Price increase on foreign costs: year 1 - 82  year 2 to 4 - 7.52
2. Price increase on local Zosts:   year I - 15%; year 2 - 13%; year 3 - 117; year 4 - 10%.



83                                                                                                     ANNEX 2
TebIle 10
>  c                                     -    o              <74wgca  g            10   g  ij  <  -11   ~~~o 00 
D                                            D            N                      ;               D1         D      _    ooi0C
] ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                                                              0   * O          .<i -/OD9 >  C<C        88              |       lu   l
I0                      %- . ..0NNN                                                               .. ....  ...   |                                   .        0    , ,,8._.
NO00 o% 0 00 O                                  0%    0             0R D                 0 D        tDD80   80R w         ^ _ eIN   1
| -c            0.000%  00 _           1DN.   00       00                   CNN.                  0  D0   00    0 %q    _    =     i               
D  OO _ _ _NO 1.NO.D .A lS _  .   ,'   0                                         8                      0 8%    - o  coo_ 8          
w   e o ^ e < < e ^ o  e N R o  D  D                                   n D u00   N            D %  0     _  O                 0   x           C                   0
tD ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     -    0                                                                                         -      ,        0  
a=                                                                          A                                                                                         '-a             ;            
0~~                                                                                                                   ~~~ U                                         -*                  0 1UI       
ooooooooooo00~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    0                                                 o                                                   =     ~       , .
-~~~                        ~     ~ N                                                                                 =                   80
ol~   ~                                                                                                                                                                                                         0             _V   #             
0:~_                                  Ooooooo            -oo'o. 0' 
00%0~~~~~~~~~                                  = 0% 0%   NI                        O     ' 
.O N O0ODN N.   ,                                  _,0                                              -   %    -%    -%   -I   !  0



ANNEX 2
Table '
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Consulting Services - Capital Cost Estimate 1/
(Tk)
Total
Year 1                  Year 2                    Year 3                 Year 4                                       Foreign
Items                           Unit Cost      Unit       Cost          Unit       Cost         Unit       Cost          Unit       Cost         Unit       Cost          Exchange        % of F,E,
A. Nbnitoring Equipment
E.C. Meter                        11,500        100   1,150,000                                                                                   100   1,150,000           920,000           80
Sieve Sets                        17,600         100   1,760,000                                                                                   100   1,760,000        1,408,000           80
W.L. Indicstor                    15,000         150   2,250,000                                                                                   150   2,250,000        1,800,OOu           80
Portable Labs.                    45,700          20     914,000                                                                                    20     914,000          731,200           80
Loggers                        1,430,000           3   4,290,000                                                                                     3   4,290,000        3,432,000           80
Water Samplers                     9,900           6       59,400                                                                                    6       59,400          47,520           80
Survey Equipment                  42,400          15     636,000                                                                                    15     636,000          508,800           80
Resometer, Tubing
and Filters 2/l                68,500         18   1,233,000                                                                                    18   1,233,000           986,400           80
Subtotal                                       12,292,400                                                                                         12,292,400       9,833,920           80
B.  Transport and Other
Equipment
4 x 4 Jeeps 3/                    614,000          7   4,298,000                                                                                     7   4,298,000        2,449,860           57
Equipment Training 4/             760,000                760,000                                                                                            760,000         608,000           80
Printing (Training)                56,000                  56,000                                                                                            56,000           -               -
Office Eauipment                  550,000                550,000                                                                                            550,000         330,000           60          X
5,664,000                                                                                         5,664,000       3,387,860           60
C.  Investigations and Studies
Pump Tests for 7 days              23,500         10     235,000          25      587,500          25     587,500          10      235,000          70   1,645,000          329,000           20
Chemical Analysis                     460        100      46,000         190       87,400         190      87,400         150       69,000         630      289,800         144,900           50
Exploratory Boreholes              35,000         -          -            10      350,000          10     350,000          -          -             20      700,000         350,000           50
Consult. Misc. Fund               650,000         -      650,000          -       650,000          -      650,000          -       650,000          -    2,600,000        2,080,000           80
Subtotal                                           931,000               1,674,900                1,674,900                 954,000                5,234,800       2,903,900           55
Total Base Cost                                 18,887,400               1,674.900                1.674.900                 9     o               23.191.200      16,125,680           69
Physical Contingencies (5%)                              944,370                   83,745                   83,745                  47,700               1,159,560          800,096           69
Total                                           19.831,770               1.758.645                1.758,645               1,0017.00               24.350.760      16,925776             69
Price Contingencies 5/                                 1,053,222                  307,090                 510,527                  406,189               2,277,028        1,566,493           69
Grand Total                                           20,884,992                2,065,735               2X,29,172                1,.407889              26.627.788       18.492,269           69
1/  Based on information obtained by ODA and BADC.  Prices were adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/ To be used in long duration pumping tests.
3/  Vehicles have been coated at c.i.f. Chittagong plus 4% handling charges, 452 import duties and 202 sales tax.
4/ Mainly audio-visual equipment.
5/ Price increase in foreign costs: Year I - 9%; Year 2-4 - 8%; (ODA).
Price incresse in local costs:  Year 1 - 15%; Year 2 - 13%; Year 3 - 11%; Year 4 - 10%.



ANNEX 2
Table 12
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Consulting Services - Personnel and Other Operating Cost 1/
(Tk)
Total
Year 1                  Year 2                  Year 3                  Year 4                                       Foreign
Items                          Unit Cost       Unit       Cost         Unit       Cost         Unit       Cost         Unit       Cost          Unit       Cost          Exchange       % of F.E,
A.  Poreian Consultants 2/
(man-months)
Team Leader                      175,000        12      2,100,000       12      2,100,000        12     2,100,000        12     2,100,000        48      8,400,000       8,400,000          100
Irrigation Engineer              175,000         9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000         9     1,575,000        36      6,300,000       6,300,000          100
hydrogeologist                   175,000        11      1,925,000       11      1,925,000        11     1,925,000        11     1,925,000        44      7,700,000       7,700,000          100
Field Engineer                   175,000         9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000         9     1,575,000         9      1,575,000       36      6,300,000       6,300,000          100
Elect. & Mach. Engineer          175,000         9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000         9     1,575,000        36      6,300,000       6,300,000          100
Modelling Specialist             175,000         2        350,000        2        350,000         2       350,000         6      1,050,000       12      2,100,000       2,100,000          100
Ilydrologist                     175,000         2        350,000        2        350,000         -          -            2        350,000        6      1,050,000       1,050,000          100
Cooperative Adviser              175,000        11      1,925,000       11      1,925,000        11     1,925,000        11      1,925,000       44      7,700,000       7,700,000          100
Irrigation Agriculturalist    175,000            9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000        9      1,575,000         9     1,575,000        36      6,300,000       6,300,000          100
Subtotal                                        12,950,000              12,950,000               12,600,000              13,650,000              52,150,000       52,150,000         100
B.  BADC Counterpart Staff  man/year
Execuitive Engineer               43,500         2         87,000        2         87,000         2        87,000         2         87,000        8        348,000
Assistant Engineer                29,000         5        145,000        5        145,000         5        145,000        5        145,000       23        580,000
S,,btotal                                          232,000                  232,000                 232,000                 232,000                 928,000
C. Support Staff
Office Manager                    26,900         1         26,900        1         26,900         1        26,900         1         26,900        4        107,600
Accountant                        18,100         1         18,100        1         18,100         1         18,100        1         18,100        4         72,400                                      in
Clerk/Typist                      15,700         2         31,400        2         31,400         2         31,400        2         31,400        8        125,600
Draftsman/Tracer                  12,000         2         24,000        2         24,000         2        24,000         2         24,000        8         96,000
Peon                               6,700         1          6,700         1         6,700         1          6,700        1          6,700        4         26,800
Driver                            10,900         7         76,300        7         76,300         7        76,300         7         76,300       28        305,200
Subtotal                                            183,400                 183,400                 183,400                 183,400                  733,600
D. Training
Rental of Training Center         56,000                   56,000                  56,000                  56,000                   56,000                 224,000
Allowance for Students            90,000                   90,000                  90,000                   90,000                  90,000                 360,000
Running Expenses                  22,400                   22,400                  22,400                   22,400                  22,400                  89,600
Subtotal                                           168,400                  168,400                 168,400                 168,400                 673,600
E.  Transport & Other
O_peratin   ot
4 x 4 Jeeps3T                     37,500         7        262,500        7        262,500         7       262,500         7        262,500        7      1,050,000         840,000           80
Office 4/                                                 146,000                 146,000                 146;000                  146,000                 584,000         233,600           40
Subtotal                                           408,500                 408,500                  408,500                 408,500               1,634,000        1,073,600           66
Total Base Costs                                13,942.300               13,942,300              13592,300               14,642,300              56,119,200       53223,600            95
Price Contingencies 5/                                    916,172               2,440,281               4,005,261               5,769,073               13,130,787      12,474,247           95
Grand Total                                     14,858.472              16.382,581               17,597,561              20,411,373              69,249,987       65,697,847           95
1/  Based on information received by ODA and BADC.  Prices have been adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/  ODA estimates average cost of man/month for consultancy services at b 5,000.  Final cost estimate will be made after bids have beeni received from British consaulting firms.
3/  Operating costs for jeeps have been estimated at 15,000 miles/year at Tk26/gallon of diesel oil.  Repairs and maintenance are assumed at Tkl6,000/year.
4/  Lump sum.
5/  Price increase on local costs:  Year 1   15%; Year 2 - 13%; Year 3 = 11%; Year 4 - 10%.
Price increase on foreign costs (consulting services):  Year 2 = 9%; Year 3 - 10%; Year 4 - 10%.



ANNEx 2
Table 13
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS 11 PROJECT
Cost Estimate - IRDP Capital Coats 1/
(Tk)
Total
Year  I                 Year  2                 Year  3                  Year  4                                        Foreign         % of
Items                               Unit Cost       Unit   Cost             Unit   CoSt             Unit   Cost              Unit   Cost             Unit   Cost              Exchange         F.E.
A.  Construction
Construction of office
buildings for TCCA 2/           559,600          6   3,357,600           13   7,274,800          -         -                                      19   10,632,400         3,615,000         34
Residential Quarters 3/         775,700         20  15,514,000           30  23,271,000          16   12,411,200                                  66   51,196,200        17,406,700         34
Subtotal                                      18,871,600               30,545,800               12,411,200                                       61,828,600       21,021,700         34
B.  Transport Eauipment
Jeeps (4 seater) 4/             375,000          4   1,500,000                                                                                     4    1,500,000           855,000         57
Motorcycles 5/                   16,500         35      577,500                                                                                   35       577,500          231,000         40
Bicycles 6/                       1,660        500      830,000                                                                                  500       830,000          332,000         40
Subtotal                                       2,907,500                                                                                          2,907,500        1,418,000         49
C.  Office Furniture and
Equipment
Office furniture 7/                -            -    1,750,000                                                                                    -      1,750,000          175,000         10
Photo copier                    331,400          1      331,400                                                                                    1       331,400          145,816         44
Duplicating machine (el)         38,700          4      154,800                                                                                    4       154,800           66,564         43
Duplicating machine (m)          22,000         35      770,000                                                                                   35       770,000          346,500         45
Typewriter (English)             22,000           1      22,000                                                                                     1       22,000            9,900         45
Typewriter (Bengal)               8,800          8       70,400                                                                                    8        70,400           35,200         50
Calculator                        1,100         38       41,800                                                                                   38        41,800           20,900         50
Subtotal                                       3,140,400                                                                                          3,140,400          799,880         26
Total Base Cost                                      24_919500               30     S                  12 411 200                                       67.876.500       23A239.580         34
Physical Contingencies (5%)                           1,245,975               1,527,290                   620,560                                        3,393,825        1,153,900         34
Total                                         26,165.475               32,073,090               13.031,760                                       71,270,325       24,393.480         34
Price Contingencies 8/                                1,651,041               6,071,512                 4,076,794                                       11,799,347        4,011,777         34
Grand Total                                   27.816.516               38 144 602               17.108.554                                       83 06967         28.405.257         34
1/  Based on October 1981 prices provided by IRDP and adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/ Office building consists of seven rooms, one store and two bathrooms (2,500 sq. ft.).
3/  Residential quarters consist of twin quarters to accommodate eight officers.
4/ For Deputy Director (headquarters) and Deputy Project Directors at District level.
5/  For Deputy Project Officer at Thana level.  Motorcycles will remain property of IRDP.
6/  For Tnspectors and other grass-rout level IRDP staff.  Bicycles will be sold to staff.
7/  For headquarters and district offices.
8/  1)  Price increase on foreign costs:  year I = 8E; years 2-4 = 7.57.
2)  Price increase on local costs:    vear I = 157; year 2 = 137.; year 3 = 11%; year 4 = 10%.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Cost Estimate - IRDP Incremental Operating Costs:'
(Tk)
Unit            Year 1                 Year 2                    Year 3                  Year 4                                     Total
Items                              Cost        Unit     Cost          Unit      Cost           Unit       Cost          Unit       Cost          Unit        Cost        Foreign Exch.        F FE.
A.  Salaries and Allowances
(Headquarters)
Deputy Director               47.700         1       47,700         1        47,700          1         47,700         1         47,700         1        190.800            -
Assistant Director            24,900         1       24.900         1        24,900          1         24,900         1         24.900         1         99.600            -
Accountant                    10.900         1       10,900         1        10,900          1         10,900         1         10.900         1         43,600            -              -
Steno Typist                  10,000         1       10,000         1        10,000          1         10,000         1         10,000         1         40.000           -               -
Office Assistant              10,800         1       10,800         1        10,800          1         10,800         1         10,800         1         43,200           -               -
Lower Division Assistant       8,100         1        8,100         1         8.100          1          8,100         1          8.100         1         32.400            -              -
Driver                         8,100         1        8.100        1          8,100          1          8.100         1          8,100         1         32,400           -               -
(District-Thana-Level)
Deputy Project Director       36,400         3      109,200         3       109.200          3        109.200         3        109,200         3        436.800            -
Deputy Project Officer        16,100        35      563,500        35        563,500        35        563,500        35        563,500        35      2,254.000            -
Driver                         8,100         3       24,300         3         24,300         3         24.300         3         24,300         3         24.300            -              -            G
Subtotal                                     817,500                 817,500                  817.500                  817,500                3,270,000            -               -
B.  2MP          2/                                      421,200                 736,400                  736,400                  735,400                2,630,400            -              -
C. OperatinR Costs
Jeeps-/                       37,500         4      150,000         4       150,000          4        150.000         4        150,000         4        600,000          480,000          80
Motorcycles-4                  8,800        35      308,000        35        308.000        35        308,000       .35        308,000        35      1,232,000          985,600          80
Office                                                73,000                  73,000                   73,000                   73,000                  292,000          116,800          40
Subtotal                                     531.000                 531,000                  531,000                  531r000                2,124,000        1.582,400           75
Total Base Cost                                   1,769,700               2,084,900                 2,084,900                2,084,900                8,024,400       1,582,400           20
Physical Contingencies (5%)                          88,485                 104,245                   104,245                  104,245                  401.220           80,244          20
Total                                  1,858,185               2,189,145                 2,189,145                2,189.145                8,425,620        1,662,644          20
Price Contingencies- /                              126,356                 437,828                  735,551                1,020,135                 2,319,870         463,974           20
Grand Total                                   198454l                 2,626.973                2.924.696                3.209280                10.745.490        Z.126i,1            20
1/Based on October 1981 prices provided by IRDP and adjusted for expected domestic and international inflation to project unit costs to mid-1982.
2/Training will be provided for District and Thana level IRDP staff as well as KSs personnel/DTW managers, model farmers, etc.
3/Operating costs for vehicles have been estimated at 15,000 miles/year at Tk 26/gallon diesel oil.  Repairs and maintenance are assumed at Tk 16,000/year.
4/Running and maintenance costs are estimated at Tk 8,800/year.
5/ 1) Price increase on froeign costs:  year 1 - 8%; years 2 to 4 - 7.5%.                                                                                                                                  Irr
2) Price increase on local costs:    year 1 - 15%; year 2 - 13%; year 3 - 11%; year 4 - 10%.



ANNEX 2
88                           Appendix 1
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
I.        The executing agencies for the Project will be BADC/IRDP with
support from the Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture.  It is
intended that the project be supported by a consultant team covering the
main disciplines involved. They will be required to:
(a) provide professional advice tor overall project implementation;
(b) undertake a program of training, including on the job training,
for both project staff and the cooperative farmer movement;
(c) assist in carrying out a number of project related studies;
(d) advise and assist in the adaptation and development of existing
monitoring and record keeping procedures for the project.
2.        The executing agencies will provide counterpart staff to work in
close collaboration with the consultants. These counterparts will be drawn
from the project implementation staff.
3.        To upgrade BADC's capability to undertake groundwater studies
and monitoring, the project will finance the procurement and operation of
specialized equipment, including conductivity meters, water level indicators,
sieve sets, portable chemical laboratories, electric loggers, water samplers
and surveying sets. In addition, it will fund investigatory work such as
exploratory drilling, piesometer construction and test well pumping.
Outline Terms of Reference for the Project Consultants
4.        Preliminary Phase
(a)  Review previous reports and other publications pertaining to the
geology, hydrology, hydrogeology, groundwater development and
irrigation in the project area.
(b)  With the assistance of the counterpart statf, collect, analyze,
collate and compile all available information from existing deep
tubewell irrigation schemes previously constructed in the project
area.



89                       ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
5.        Construction Phase
(a)  Assist and advise the executing agencies in the implementation
of the project including:
(i) Site selection
(ii) Drilling and installation of wells
(iii)  Installation and commissioning of pump sets
(iv) Layout and construction of irrigation systems
(v) Operation and Maintenance Systems (e.g. Planned
Preventative Maintenance)
(vi) Cooperative Water Users Organization
(vii)  Irrigated agricultural development
(b)  Continue formal and field training in all the above areas.
(c)  Advise and assist with data collection and with the analysis,
collation and compilation of such data.
(d)  Make recommendations on further groundwater development in the
project area.
(e)  Assist BADC.in the preparation of interim progress reports and
the final report on the completion of the project.
6.        Studies and Pilot Projects
(a)  Analyze, collate and compile all data collected.  The study area,
which will be precisely defined, will include parts of Comilla
and Sylhet districts as well as the project area.
(b)  Review all reports, publications and data pertaining to the
geology, hydrogeology and groundwater development of the Comilla
and Sylhet districts.
(c)  Organize field inventory of drilled wells in the study area.
(d)  Plan and supervise a study campaign including drilling, geophysical
logging, well testing and sample analysis.
(e)  Make an assessment of the groundwater development potential for
irrigation of the study areas.



90                          ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
(f) Evaluate the probable costs of groundwater development.
(g) Prepare a final report on the studies and make recommendations
on further investigations and/or development.
(h) Advise and assist on the requirements for, location of and
supervision of the more specialized testing procedures, such
as geophysical logging and long duration pumping tests and
analyze the results.
(i) Assist with the implementation of the various pilot projects
and evaluate the significance of the results.
(j) In the light of (c), (d) and (e) above, advise on the
modifications of BADC's standard designs.
(k) Prepare a finite difference or finite element digital model
of the aquifer system of the project area.
(1) Calibrate the model using historical abstraction and monitoring
network results.
(m)  Use the model for long term predictions of water level behavior
in response to various abstraction regimes.
7.        Discipline Requirements
(a) Groundwater Engineering
It is assumed that the Project Leader will be a highly experienced
Civil/Groundwater Engineer who can cover both this aspect and the
management of the consultancy team. He will be responsible to
the executing agencies for carrying out the activities specified
for the consultants under the agreed terms of reference. In
particular he will be responsible for:
(i) overall professional support and advice to the executing
agencies on the implementation of the project;
(ii) coordination and supervision of the activities ot the
expatriate staff;
(iii) liaison with the executing agencies;
(iv) the technical content and timely submission ol the
Consultants' reports;
(v) advice and assistance with the planning and supervision
of implementation of the pilot projects;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
(vi) formulation recommendations on modifications of BADC's
standard designs in the light of incoming well construction
results;
(vii)  coordination of the training program for the project, in
consultation with staff in other disciplines.
(b) Irrigation Engineering
Advice and assistance:
(i) with the refinement of criteria for site selection, training
of BADC section officers in site selection, and monitoring
the application of the criteria;
(ii) with a review of the presently prevalent designs of the
deep tubewell irrigation systems;
(iii) with a review of the present practices of the on-farm
water management and recommendations for its improvement;
(iv)  with selection and design of the improved tubewell command
areas (including lining of channels);
(v) with counterpart staff training in all aspects of irrigation
engineering.
(c) Hydrogeology
Advice and assistance:
(i)  with a review of previous work relevant to the hydrogeology
of the project area and the study areas;
(ii) with the direction and supervision of the analysis, collection
and compilation of previous drilling and well testing results;
(iii) with the planning and implementation of the monitoring program,
designed to provide data on well performance and for the
calibration of the G.W. model.
(iv)  with the direction and supervision of the analysis and
processing of the well construction data as these become
available.
(v)  with the planning and supervision of the field investigations
in the study areas, including well inventories and sampling,
drilling and testing programs.



ANNEX 2
92                         Appendix 1
(vi)  with analysis and synthesis of all results obtained from
the study areas.
(vii)  with recommendations on the development potential of the
study areas.
(viii) with counterpart staff training in all aspects of hydrogeology.
(d)  Field Engineering
General assistance and support as may be required for the hydro-
geology and irrigation engineering components of the project.
In particular advice and assistance:
(i) with the implementation of the pilot projects and the
sampling, drilling and testing procedures in the study areas;
(ii) with the program of data collection;
(iii) as necessary with the training program.
(e) Electrical and Mechanical Engineering (only one consultant is
envisaged)
Advice and assistance:
(i) with the assistance of the diesel driven pump sets;
(ii)  with the establishment in the project area of the appropriate
maintenance programs and procedures.
(iii)  any problems that may arise with the arrangements for
developing the private sector capacity for maintenance
and repair;
(iv)  with the aspects of electrification relevant to the project;
(v) with the supervision of the borehole drilling program;
(vi)  with counterpart training in all these aspects;
(vii)  with a program of training for pump operators and maintenance
mechanics (in association with the cooperative development
program).
(f) Hydrology
(i) Review of meteorological and hydrological data available
for the study area.
(ii) Preparation of a suitable package of computer programs to
simulate the groundwater system of the study area.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
93
(iii)  Advising the resident project team on the data requirements
of the model.
(iv)  Setting up and preliminary calibration of the model, mainly
to identify gaps in the available data base.
(v)  Recommendations on the upgrading of the data base.
(vi)  Final calibration of the model.
(vii)  Predictive runs to examine the future effects of ongoing
development and to quantify further development potential.
(viii) Calibration and prediction runs should be carried out after
the assessment of the data obtained during the first and
second years drilling program, and the model should produce
outputs by the end of the project's third year;
(ix) Training of BADC counterpart staff in all aspects of
groundwater modelling.
(h) Irrigation and Agronomy and Extension
Within the existing Ministry of Agriculture Extension construction
and in association with the ongoing Irrigation Management Program
advice and assistance;
(i)  with all aspects of on-farm water management
(ii)  with liaison within the project group for the agricultural
aspects
(iii)  with a program of farmer training
(iv)  with the agricultural aspects of the pilot projects
(v)  counterpart training in irrigation agronomy.
(j) Cooperative Development
Within the existing IRDP structure, advice and assistance:
(i)  with organization of water users associations
(ii)  with relevant structures and procedures for inputs,
credit and marketing for the crops
(iii)  with liaison within the project group for the coope-ative
development aspects
(iv)  with a program of training for officials in the coops.



94                              ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL (II) PROJECT
Import of Diesel Fuel for Irrigation
1.      As part of the proposed Credit, IDA will make available US$ 10 million
in foreign exchange for the import of high-speed diesel (HSD) for use in irriga-
tion. At present prices, this would cover the import of approximately 29,000
metric tons of HSD, equivalent to 28% of total projected HSD requirements in the
irrigation sector during FY83. Table 1 shows the estimated total demand for HSD
in the Bangladesh economy and in the agriculture (i.e., irrigation) sector
itself for the years from FY80 through FY85.
2.      It is estimated that the total HSD requirements during FY83 for all
minor irrigation equipment fielded under IDA-supported irrigation projects 1/
Table 1: TOTAL AND AGRICULTURAL HSD DEMAND IN BANGLADESH (FY80-FY85)
(in '000 long tons)
Total   Agriculture
Actuals
FY80            414          83
FY81            413          58 (plus 18 SKO /a)
Projected
FY82            452          95
FY83            482         105
FY84            487         115
FY85            520         126
/a The sharply reduced HSD use and the additional consumption of supe-
rior kerosene oil (SKO) in agriculture in FY81 are explained by the
significant price differential favoring SKO use during that year.
Source: Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation.
1/   Deep tubewells under Credits 341-BD and 631-BD, shallow tubewells under
Credits 631-BD, 724-BD, 1071-BD and 1147-BD, and low-lift pumps under
Credits 340-BD, 542-BD, 605-BD, 631-BD, 900-BD and 990-BD.



ANNEX 2
95                                Appendix 2
would approximate some 8.9 million gallons (i.e., almost 29'000 metric tons)
with an import cost of about US$ 9.9 million at present prices (USs 345 per
metric ton, c&f Chittagong). Table 2 shows details concerning irrigation equip-
ment expected to be operating during the FY83 irrigation season -- both under
!DA-supported projects and under a2l irrigation schemes.
3.      Bangladesh's balance of payments and overall financial prospects for
FY83 and the next few years are very precarious, mainly as a consequence of
severe terms-of-trade losses and declining real aid inflows. Import require-
ments, particularly for petroleum products, have risen sharply in nominal terms,
and the country has had to borrow extensively on commercial terms to finance
its crucial import needs for petroleum and petroleum products ir both FY81 and
FY82. Outstanding commercial debts incurred on this account amount to roughly
US$ 100 million at the end of FY82 and will need to be either repaid or rolled
over in early FY83, and the possibilities for additional comnnercial borrowings
to finance petroleum imports in FY83 are virtually nil. As anticipated export
earnings, workers' remittances and aid inflows during FY83 will fall short of
even rminimally comfortable import financing requirements, the economy will be
faced with severe reductions in real levels of imports this year, which in turn
will affect the rate of economic activity in most sectors of the economy.
4.      The agriculture sector alone ho ds any promise of substantial real
growth in FY83 -- but this will depend as much on the assured availability of
diesel fuel for irrigation equipment as on the weather. It will be crucial,
therefore. that the requirements for HSD in the irrigation sector be fully met
and that the HSD supply situation be comfortable as Bangladesh heads into the
FY83 irrigation season. In view of the very tight outlook for overall balance
of payments financing, it is very likely that petroleumn imports would have to be
curtailed along with imports of virtually all other commodities -- since there
is already very little slack (represented by non-essential consumer goods) in
the country's commodity import list -- unless specifically earmarked foreign
exchange resources can be made available for this purpose. Without an assured
supply of HSD, agricultural production -- primarily of foodgrains -- during the
FY83 dry season would be subject to major rlsks and likely to fall again far
short of the country's potential. Moreover, uncertainties in diesel
availability would have a significant detrimental impact on farmer demand for
additional irrigation equipment being made available, including DTWs to be
provided under the proposed project.
5.      Accordingly, and to ensure that irrigation facilities fielded under
IDA-supported projects will not be idled during the crucial FY83 irrigation
season for lack of diesel fuel, the Credit would provide the foreign exchange
needed to finance the entire import requirements for diesel fuel for all minor
irrigation equipment expected to be in operation under any of IDA's irrigation
projects during FY83.
6.      The fuel would be imported by Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC)
under arrangements satisfactory to IDA.  Procurement is likely to be in the form
of long-term purchase contracts with favorable pricing and/or price discount



ANNEX 2
96                                Appendix 2
Table 2: IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT AND DIESEL REQUIREMENTS, FY83 (Projected)
LLPs
DTWs        STWs       2-cusec    1-cusec    Totals
A. Under IDA Projects
Credit No.
341-BD                      3,000          -                                .
631-BD                        200       2,500          -        1,400       ...
340-BD, 542-BD, 605-BD         -           -        2,000       9,000
724-BD                         -       11,000          -           -
900-BD                         -           -        2,000          -
990-BD                         -           -           -        1,500
1071-BD                         -        1,800          --
1147-BD                         -        5,000          -           -
Total Units                  3,200      20,300       4,000      11,900    (39,400)
HSD Use per Unit /a
(gallons/season)             660         120         300         165
Total HSD Requirements
('000 gallons/season)    2,112         2,436       1,200       1,964       8,930
B. Country Totals
Total Units /b              13,500    105,000              42,000         (160,500)
Total HSD Requirements /a
('000 gallons/season)    8,910        12,600            10,500            32 010
/a  Such estimates may vary widely, depending on the assumptions made concerning
the number of operating hours per unit per season. Fuel use is estimated to
average 0.05 gallons per horse power per hour. Average engine size is about
22 hp per DTW, 6 hp per STW, 12 hp per 2-cusec LLP and 6 hp per 1-cusec LLP.
With an estimated average operating time of 600 hours per season, for example,
diesel consumption would be 550 gallons per DTW, 150 gallons per STW, 300
gallons per 2-cusec LLP and 150 gallons per 1-cusec LLP. With an estimated
average operating time of 800 hours per season, on the other hand, diesel
consumption would amount to 880 gallons per DTW, 240 gallons per STW, 480
gallons per 2-cusec LLP and 240 gallons per 1-cusec LLP. The estimates shown
in the table above reflect estimated operating times per season of 600 hours
per DTW, 400 hours per STW, 500 hours per 2-cusec LLP and 600 hours per 1-cusec
LLP.
/b Excluding BWDB's primary pumps.
Note: 1 barrel = 42 gallons; 1 metric ton = 7.4 barrels of HSD (approximately).
Source: IDA estimates and projections.



ANNEX 2
97                                 Appendix 2
provisions. The diesel imported by BPC under the Credit would be sold to BADC
for resale to pump and tubewell owners and operators. BADC's sales prices would
have to be identical to those charged by BPC's marketing companies -- i.e., they
would have to reflect the petroleum products price increases effected by BPC
on July 1, 1982, to offset the higher cost of supplies as well as any further
price increases that would be implemented by BPC during FY83.



98                             ANNEX 3
Table 1
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Projection of No. of TCCA-KSS and Membership
Total in 35       1981-8'      1982-83       1983-84    1984-85       1985-86
Thanas
Village            7250              3197         3625          4350        5075         5800
%              (100)              (44)         (50)          (60)        (70)        (80)
Farm Families  989960             129071        197992       296700       346150      395600
(100)             (13)         (20)          (30)        (35)        (40)
27           35            35          35          35
KSS                                  5696         6489          7266        7826         8559
Average No.
of members
per KSS                                23            35           50          60           70
Source: IRDP



ANNEX 3
Table 2
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Existing Thana Facilities in Project Area
District and Thana            TCCA Building         Twin Quarters         Fertilizer       Godowns
Marketing Seed
Mymensingh                                                                No.   Tons.
1.  Bhaluka    N                 - (1)                2   (2)             1   (200)            -
2.  Gaffargaon                   1 -)                4    -              1   (400)             1    (50)
3,  Phulbaria                    - (1)                1   (3)             1   (200)             1
4.  Trisal                       1 (-)                4    -              1   (200)             1     (50)
5.  Nandail    N                 - (1)                2   (2)             1   (200)            -
6.  Iswarganj                    1 (-)                2   (2)             -
7.  Kotwali (Mymen) N            - (+)                2   (2)             2   (365)            -
8.  Muktagacha                   1 (-)                4    -              1   (200)             1   (200)
9.  Philipur                     1 (-)                2   (2)             -                     -
10.  Haluaghat                    - (1)                -   (4)             1   (200)             -
Kishoregan:J
1.  Purbadhaulal                 1 (-)                1   (3)             1   (200)            -
2.  Netrokona                    - (1)                2   (2)             1   (200)            -
3.  Atpara       N               - (1)                3   (1)             1   (400)             -
4.  Kendua                       - (1)                2   (2)             1   (200)             -
5,  Tarail       N               - (1)                2   (2)             1   (200)             -
6.  Karimganj  N                 - (1)                1   (3)             1   (200)             -
7.  Hossainpur N                 - (1)                3   (1)             1   (400)            -
8.  Pakundia   N                 - (1)                1   (3)             1   (500)             -
9.  Kathiadi   N                 - (1)                2   (2)             1   (400)             -
10.  Bajitpur                     - (1)                3   (1)             1   (200)             -
11.  Kishoreganj                  - (1)*               -    (4)            -                     _
Dacca
1.  Sripur                       1(-)                 4    -              1     (200)           -
2.  Kapasia                      1 (-)                1   (3)             1     (200)           -
3.  Monohardi                    - (1)                3   (1)             1     (200)           -
4.  Raipura                      1 (-)                3   (1)             1     (200)           -
5.  Kaliganj                     1 (-)                3   (1)             1     (200)           -
6.  Joydevpur*                   1 (-)                3   (1)             -                     1    (50)
7.  Kaliakair                    1 (-)                4    -              1     (200)           2   (400)
8.  Saturia                      - (1)                1   (3)             1     (200)**         1   (200)
9.  Dhamrai                      1 (-)                -   (4)             1     (200)           -
10.  Manikganj*                   1 (-)                1   (3)             1     (1000)          1   (300)
11,  Singair                      - (1)                1   (3)             1     (200)           -
12.  Savar                        - (1)                3   (1)             1     (400)           _
13,  Narasingdi                   1 (-)                2   (2)             1     (200)**         -
14,  Shibpur                      - (-)                2   (2)             -                     -
16 (19)             74   (66)           31-    (5)             7     (28)
1. Figures in brackets indicate additional requirement.
2.  *  TCCA building first floor to be constructed
3,  ** 10 godowns 900 tons each at village level
4. N No TCCA established as yet.



100
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester                        Disbursement
Semester                 Cumulative
----- (US$ '000 equivalent) ------
Fiscal Year 1982/83
First                                  -
Second                              15,600 1/                   15,600
Fiscal Year 1983/84
First                               16,500                      32,100
Second                              10,500                      42,600
Fiscal Year 1984/85
First                                9,500                      52,100
Second                               6,100                      58,200
Fiscal Year 1985/86
First                                4,800                      63,000
Second                               3,200                      66,200
Fiscal Year 1986/87 2/
First                                1,800                      68,000
Second
1/ Including US$10 M for the purchase of diesel fuel expected to be dis-
bursed in FY 1982/83.
2/ Project is expected to be fully disbursed by December 1986 or six
months after its completion date of July 1986.



ANNEX 4
Table 2
101
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit
Proposed Allocation            Percent of Expenditures
of Credit                     to be Financed
Category                            (US$ Million)
A. Equipment
1.  DTW components                     26.00               100% of foreign expenditures
or 100% of local expenditures
2.  Vehicles, motorcycles,                                 (ex-factory); or 65% of
bicycles and office                                   local expenditures (off-the
equipment.                          0.40              shelf)
B. Civil Works
1.  Construction of office                                 90% of local expenditures.
buildings, staff houses
and sheds.                          2.90
2.  Command area development                              90% of local expenditures.
(channel lining).                   0.50
C.  Medium Term Credit Refinancing          17.70              100% of local expenditures
for the amounts disbursed
by BB.
D.  Project Monitoring and
Evaluation                              0.20               100% of local expenditures.
E.  BADC and IRDP
Salaries for local staff 1/
and IP training                          0.50              60% of local expenditures.
F.  Diesel Fuel                             10.00              100% of foreign expenditures.
G.  Unallocated 2/                           9.80
Total                      68.00
1/ Excluding counterpart staff for ODA financed consultants.
2/ Not to be used for imported diesel fuel.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Cropping Patterns, Area Irrigated During Dry Season and Phasing of DTWs
Cropping Pattern
Without Project                         With Project                   Area Irrigated in Dry Season per DTW                 Phasing of DTW Installation
Area                              Crop        Cropping Intensity        Crop         Cropping Intensity              Year 2    Year 3    Year 4-20              Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total
I Madhupur Tract
(a) Well drained soils           B.aus                100X              T.aus               100X                       60         70           80                 80        240         240        240        800
Oilseed crop         40%              Wheat               100%
(b) Poorly drained soils         T.aman               100X              T.aman             100X                        60         70           80                 40        120         120        120        400
B.aus               'p40              Boro                100X
II Old Brahmaputra
Flood Plain
(a) Well drained soils           T.aman               100%              T.aman             100%                        60         70           80                140        420         420        420       1400
B.aus                40X              Wheat               100X
(b) Poorly drained soils         T.aman               100%              T.aman              100X                       60         70           80                140        420         420        420       1400
B.aus                402              Boro                100X
Source: Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural Development,
and Cooperatives; BADC and Mission estimates.
B - broadcast
T - transplanted



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Crop Yielda-/
(maunds/acre)
Without Project                                                With Project
B. Aus      T. Aman      T. Aman      Oilseed             T. Aus       T. Aman      T. Aman       Boro       Wheat
(Local)      (H.Y.V.)                         (H.Y.V.)    Local         H.Y.V.       H.Y.V.
I adhupur Tract
(a)  Well drained soils                  10                                      3                    31                                              30
(b)  Poorly drained soils 2/             12            20          30                                            25          35           40
II Old Brahmaputra - Flood Plain
(a)  Well drained soils                  10            15          25                                            20          30                       30
(b)  Poorly drained soils 2/             12            20          30                                            25          35            40
kg/acre
I Madhupur Tract
(a)  Well drained soils                373                                     112                  1156                                            1119
(b)  Poorly drained soils              448            746        1119                                           933        1306          1492
II Old Brahmaputra - Flood Plain
(a)  Well drained soils                373            560         933                                           746        1119                     1119
(b)  Poorly drained soils              44B            746        1119                                           933        1306          1492
1/ Mission estimates.
2/ Located on level uplands and shallow valleys.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Sumary of Crop Input Requirement,I/
(per acre)
Input                             Unit                         Aus                      T.Aman (local)              T.Aman H.Y.V.                Boro (H.Y.V.)                   Oilseeds                     Wheat
FO            FW            FWO            FW            VO             FW            FWO            FW           PWO            NW            FWO            FW
Labor - Hired                     man-days/acre            14             42            30             30            45             49            -             52             -             -              _             20
- Family                                            40             50            40             45            38             43             -            65            35             -              -             47
Draught power                     days/acre                12             15            18             20            18             20             -             18            8             -              -             16
Seed                              seer/acre                40             16            20             20            16             16                           16            8             -              -             40
Fertilizer - Urea (46IN)                                   19             36            16             20            26             34            -             50             -             -              -             43
TST (461N)                                                 20             9             11            10             25             -             28             -            -              -             36
MP (60%K)                                                   10            -              -             7             12             -             14             -            -              -             10
Pesticides                                                                 r             0.2            0.2          0.5             1            -              I             -             _              -             0.5
FWO - Future without Project
FW - Future with Project
1/   Source:   Agroeconomic Research, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and mission estimates.



BANGLADESH
DEEI TtUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Trrigation Requirements
January    February    March    April    May    June   July    August    September    October    November    December    Total
Potential Evapotranspiration (ins)-   2.09           2.80        4.49    5.91    6.10   5.31   5.12         5.00        4.80         4.21        2.80           2.09       50.72
Average Rainfall (ina)l/                 0.59        0.83        2.15    4.25    9.96  16.53  15.94    12.27           10.08         6.02         1.06          0.12       80.25
Effective Rainfall (ina)2/               0.40        0.59        1.57    3.04    7.47  12.40  11.95         9.56        7.59         3.77        0.76           0.08       59.18
Cropping Pattern I - Aus/Wheat
Consumptive use (ip,)3/                  2.20        2.83        1.77    1.81    7.17   6.65   1.22                      -            -          0.23           1.41
Field Losses (inn-                       1.47        1.87        1.18    1.89    3.54   3.66   1.65                                              0.15          0.94
Land Preparation.                                                         3.00
Nursery Requirement.6/                                           0.15    0.15
Field Irrigation Requirl7ent (ina)    3.07           4.11        1.53    3.14         0       0      0       -                                    0             2.27
Conveyance Losses (ins)-                 0.54        0.73        0.27    0.55                                                                                   0.40
Total Pumping Requirement (ins)          3.61        4.84        1.80    3.69         0       0      0                                            0            2.67       16.61
Cropping Pattern 2 - Aman/Boro
Consumptive Use (igq)3/                              1.46        4.84    7.28    6.89   2.44         -      4.61        5.39         4.25        1.42            -
Field Losses (ins)-   5/                             3.30        3.66    3.54    3.66   1.65                3.66        3.54         3.66         0              -
Land Preparation (ins)/-                 5.00                                                               3.00
Soil Moisture Deficit (ing               3.00
Nursery Requirement (ins)_               0.30                                                      0.15    0.15
Field Irrigation Reqt;iry?ent (ins)    7.90          4.17        6.93    7.78               -       -        -           -           4.14        0.66            -
Conveyance Losses (ins)-                 1.39        0.74        1.22    1.37                                                         .12        0.12            -
Total Pumping Requirement (ins)          9.29        4.9         8.15    9.15               -       _        _           _           4.26        0.78            -         36.72
Cropping Pattern 3 - Aman/Wheat
Consumptive Use (ig7)-/                  2.13        2.87        2.48      -        -       -      3.62    5.59         5.08         2.83         -             1.22
Field Losses (ins)_                      1.42        1.31        1.62                              2.36    3.66         3.54         2.72         -            0.81
Land Preparation (ins)5/ 6-                                                                        3.00
Nursery Requirements (ins)6                                                  .            0.15    0.15
Field Irrigation Requir ents (ins)   3.15            4.19        2.53                         0       0        0           0         1.78                      1.95
Conveyance Losses (ins)-                 0.56        0.74        0.45                                                                0.31                      0.34
Total Pumping Requirement (ins)          3.71        4.93        2.98                                                                2.09                       2.29       16.00
1/ See Annex 5 Table 6
2/ Calculated according to Doorenbos and Pruit (1977)
3/ See Annex 5 Table 6
4/ For rice assumed as 0.118 inn per day; For wheat field irrigation efficiency
taken as 60 percent.
5/  Assumed as 3 ins for Aus and Aman and 5 ins for Boro
6/ Assumed as 0.3 ins per month
7/ Conveyance efficiency assumed to be 85 percent.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Crop Consumptive Use Estimates (inches)
Crop                 Planting/      January      February    March    April    Nay    June    July    August    September    October    November    December             Totel
Harvest
Date
Rice Aus
90 days              16/4-14/7                                           1.81   7.17   6.65       1.22                                                                     16.85
Rice Aman
105 days             11/7-23/10                                                                   3.62    5.59         5.08       2.83                                     17.12
5/8-17/11                                                                           4.61         5.39       4.25        1.42                         15.67
15/8-28/11                                                                           2.72         5.28       4.57        2.40                         14.97
Rice Boro             1/12-30/3       2.40         3.46       4.49                                                                                          2.20           12.55
120 days             15/2-14/6                     1.46       4.84       7.28   6.89   2.44                                                                                22.91
Wheat                25/11-24/3        2.20        2.83       1.77                                                                            0.23          1.41            8.44
120 daya              1/12-30/3       2.13         2.87       2.48                                                                                          1.22            8.70
Cropping Pattern I
Rice Aus             16/4-14/7                                            1.81   7.17   6.65      1.22
Wheat                25/11-24/3        2.20        2.83       1.77                                                                           0.23           1.41
Total                                  2.20        2.83       1.77        1.81   7.17   6.65      1.22                                       0.23           1.41           25.29
Cropping Pattern 2
Rice Aman             5/8-7/11                                                                            4.61         5.39       4.25       1.42
Rice Boro            15/2-14/6                     1.46       4.84       7.28   6.89   2.44
Total                                              1.46       4.84       7.28   6.89   2.44               4.61         5.39       4.25       1.42                          38.58
Cropping Pattern 3                                                                                                                                                                             I|
Rice Aman             1/17-23/10                                                                  3.62    5.59         5.08       2.83                                                         u u
Wheat                 1/12-30/3        2.13        2.87       2.48                                                                                          1.22
Total                                  2.13        2.87       2.48                                3.62    5.59         5.08        2.83                     1.22           25.82
Source:  FAO, AGP Division, Agrometeorological Unit for Station Dacca Tejgaon, latitude 23.44, longtitude 90.21, elevation 7 meters.



BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT 1I
Climatic and Evapotranspiration Data for Dacca
Item                       January        February       March       April       May        June         July       August       September      October       November      December       Year
Precipitation (mm)                             15            21             54         108        253        420          405          324           256           153             27            3        2,039
Temperature Average                            18.3           21.3          25.7        28.8       28.8       28.5          28.3        28.5          28.6           27.1          23.0         19.2          25.5
Temperature Mean Maximum                       25.5           27.7          32.1        33.2       33.2       32.7          31.6        31.0          31.6           31.0          28.8         26.0          30.2 ,
Temperature Mean Minimum                       12.7           15.0          20.0        23.2       24.3       25.5          26.0        26.0          26.0           23.8          20.0         13.8          21.3 
Temperature Mean Day                           21.4           23.7          28.3        30.0       30.0       29.6          29.4        29.4          29.8           28.6          25.9         22.0          27.3
Temperature Mean Night                         17.2           19.4          24.2        26.6       27.0       27.5          27.5        27.5          27.6           25.8          22.5         17.2          24.2
Vapour Pressure                                14.0           14.6          17.6        25.6       30.0        32.6         32.6        32.6          32.8           28.2          20.5         16.0          24.7
Wind Speed 2M                                   0.2            0.2           0.5         0.5          0.2      0.2           0.2         0.2           0.2            0.1           0.2          0.1           0.2
Sunshine %                                     82             77            74          63         52         35            34          35            42            63             78           82            60
Total Radiation                               403           449            511         515        492        414          407          397           394           424            409          384          433
Evapotranspiration (mm)                        53             71           114         150        155        135          130          127           122           107             71           53         1288
Sburce:  FAO, AGP Division, Agrometeorological Unit for Station Dacca Tejgaon, latitude 23.44, longtitude 90.21, elevation 7 metres.



108                                           ANNEX 6
Table 1
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in the Madhupur Tract 1/
(Well Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Without the       Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5-10       Year 11       Year 12 2/
Pro ject
Inflows
Gross Value of Production    129,440           129,440      201,820      508,400      545,600        582,800       582,800          582,800
(command area)
Net Value of Production
(outside command area)        90,000          90,000       90,000       90,000       90,000         90,000        90,000          90,000
Off-FPrm  Income               162,000         162,000      162,000      142,000      122,000        102,000       102,000          102,000
Total Inflows                  381,440         381,440      453.890      740,000      757,600        774,800       774,800         774,800
Outflows
Investment Costs                               140,000 3/                                                                         (107,000) 6/
Cash Production Costs           60,268          60,268       85,452      193,836      206,210        218,680       218,680         218,680
Irrigation 06M Costs 4/           -               -           2,712       26,224       29,390         32,492        32,492           32,492
Incremental Working
Capital 5/                      -             13,948       65,949        7,768        7,786          -             -              (95,451)
Total Outflows                  60.268         214,216      154,113      227,828      243.386        251,172       251,172           48,721
Net Benefit before
financing
Total                          321,172         167,224      299,777      512,572      514,214        523,628       523,628          726,079
Incremental                       -           (153,948)    (21,395)    191,400        193,042        202,456       202,456         404,907
IR  -  69.2%         NPV(12%) - 794,609
Financing
Loan Receipts
MT Credit 7/                    -            126,000
ST Credit 8/                    -             13,948       79,897       87,665       95,451         95,451        95,451            -
Debt Service
MT Credit                       -               -          17,640       27,162       27,162         27,162          -                -
ST Credit                       -               -          16,179       92,680      101,691        110,723       110,723         110,723
Net Financing                     -            139,948       46,078      (32,177)    (33,402)        (42,434)      (15,272)       (110,723)
Net Benefit after
financing
Total                          321,172         307,172      345.855      480,395      480,812        481,193        508,356         615,356
Incremental                       -            (14,000)      24.683      159.223      159.640        160,021       187,184         294.184
Incremental Net
Benefit/a.F.)
(average farmer)                -               (175)         308        1.985        1.995          2,000         2.339            -
Financial Rate of Return (IRR) to Irrigation Group/Farmers' Capital - 377.6%                           NPV (12%)  -  769,398
Cash Position
Net Benefit (a.F.)             321,172         307,172      345,855      480,395      480,812        481,193        508,356            -
Less Home
Consumption 9/               320,000         320,000      330,000      350,000      350,000        350,000       350,000             -
Cash Surplus
(Deficit)                      1,172         (12.828)      15,855      130.395      130.812        131,193       158,356            -
Cash Surplus
(Deficit)                         14            (160)         198        1.624        1,635          1.639         1,979             -
(Average farmer)
Percentage of ItT Credit Debt
Service to average Farmer's
Cash Surplus                                                                 182          17%            172
1/  For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs, except investments are deferred by one year
and an incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made to allow for the time lags occuring between
incremental costs and benefits in different farming systems. (See details in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis" EDI CN-67
August 1979 by N. Schaeffer Kehnert).
2/  Year 12 has been added for discounting purposes only.
3/  Estimated STW equivalent price for DTW.  See Annex 6, Tables 5, 6 and 7.
E/  See details, Annex 2, Table 3.
5/ Assuming two cropping seasons, working capital is estimated to amount to 50t of incremental operating cost of the following year.
Working capital ts recovered at the end of the projection period as part of project salvage value.
6/ Salvage value of DTW). Estimate is based on full cost of DTW and not its STW equivalent price.
7/  Medium Term Credit at 142 p.a., one year grace period, maturity period nine years to cover 90% of DTW investment coats
(STW equivalent price).
8/  Short Term Credit at 16% p.a., to finance cumulative incremental working capital.
9/ Estimated to be about Tk 12/day for an average farm family of six persons. Tk 12/day represents the value of about 4 kgs of grain.



109
Table 2
BANGLADeSH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Financial Analysis for an Irrigtion Group in the Madhupur Tract 11
(Poorly Drained Soils - 80 acres)
Without the        Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5-10        Year 11       Year 12 2/
Project
Inf lows
Gross Value of Production    304,560             304,560      323,160       598,400      644,400        690,400         690,400        690,400
(comand area)
Net Value of Production
(outside cou-and area)        120,000          120,000      120,000       120,000      120,000        120,000        120,000         120,000
Off-Farm tncoae                  60,000           60,000        60,000       50,000        40,000        30,000          30,000          30,000
Total Inflows                   484,560          484.560      503,160       768,400      804,400        840,400         840,400        840,400
Outflows
Investment Costs                                 140,000 3/                                                                           (107,000) 6/
Cash Production Costs           121,957          121,957       128,952      232,242      250,091        267,940         267,940        267,940
Irrigation 06M Costs 4/            -                -           2,851        51,027       58,264         65,413          65,413         65,413
Incremental Working
Capital 5/                       -               4,923       75,733        12,543       12,499           -               -          (105,698)
Total Outflows                  121,957          266.880      207,536       295,812      320.854        333,353         333,353         120.655
Net Benefit before
financing
Total                           362,603          217,680      295,624       472,588      483,546        507,047         507,047        719,745
Incremental                        -            (144,923)    (66,979)    109,985          120,943       144,444         144,444         357,142
IRM   -  69.7         NPV(12%)   -   589,753
Financing
Loan Receipts
MT Credit 7/                     -             126,000          -            -
ST Credit 8/                     -               4,923       80,656        93,199      105,698        105,698         105,698
Debt Service
MT Credit                        -                -           17,640       27,162       27,162         27,162            -
ST Credit                        -                -           5,710        93,560      108,110        122,609         122,609        122,609
Net Financing                      -             130,923       57,306       (27.523)    (29,574)        (44,073)        (16,911)      (122,609)
Net Benefit after
financing
Total                           362,603          348,603       352,930      445,065       453,972       462,974         490,136         597,136
Incremental                        -             (14,000)       (9,673)      82,462       91,369        100,371         127,533        234,533
Incremental ret
Benefit(a.F.)
(average farmer)                 -                (175)         (120)       1,030        1.142          1,254           1.594           -
Financial Rate of Return (IRR) to Irrigation Group/Farmers' Capital - 178.5%                    NPV (12%)  -  455,668
Cash Position
Net Benefit (a.F.)              362,603          348,603      352,930       445,065      453,972        462,974         490,136
Less Home
Consumption 9/                350,000          350,000      350,000       350,000      350,000        350,000         350,000
Cash Surplus
(Deficit)                      12,603           (1.397)       2,930        95,065      103,972        112,974         140,136
Cash Surplus
(Deficit)
(Average Farmer)                  157              (17)           36        1,188         1,299         1,412           1,751
Percentage of MT Credit Debt
Service to average Farmer's
Cash Surplus                         -                 -            -            22%          21%            19%
1/  For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs, except investments are deferred by one year
and an incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made to allow for the time lags occurring between
incremental costs and benefits in different farming systems.  (See details in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis" EDI CN-67
August 1979 by N. Schaeffer Kehnert).
2/  Year 12 has been added for discounting purposes only.
3/  Estimated STw equivalent price for DTW.  See Annex 6, Tables 5, 6 and 7.
4/  See details, Annex 2, Table 3.
5/  Assuming two cropping seasons, working capital is estimated to amount to 50% of incremental operating cost of the following year.
Working capital is recovered at the end of the projection period as part of project salvage value.
6/ Salvage value of DTW. Estimate is based on full cost of DTW and not its STW equivalent price.
7/  Medium  Term Credit at 14% p.a., one year grace period, maturity period nine years to cover 90% of DTW investment costs
(STW equivalent price).
8/  Short Term Credit at 16% p.a., to finance cumulative incremental working capital.
9/  Estimated to be about Tk 12/day for an average farm family of six persons.  Tk 12/day represents the value of about 4 kgs of grain.



110                                                             ASNEL 6
BM.DZSII                                                           Table 3
DEEP TUBIWELLS PROJECT I1
Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in the Old 8rahuaputra Plood Plain 1/
(Well Drai    Soils - 80 Acres)
Without the
Project           Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5-10       Year 11       Year 12 2/
Inf lows
Gross Value of Production   247,600            247,600      266,200      496,000      533,200      570,400         570,400        570,400
(Command Area)
Net Value of Production       240,000          240,000      240,000      240,000      240,000      240,000         240,000        240,000
Outside Coand Area
Total Inflows          487,600           487,600      506, 200    736,000       773.200      810,400         810,400       810,400
Outflows
Investment Costs 3/                            140,000                                                                          (107,000) 6/
Cash Production Costs         121,957          121,957      128,952      199,746      212,047      224,524         224,524       224,524
Irrigation O&M Cost 4/                                        1,542       24,644       28,066       31,520          31,520        31,520
Incremental Working                              4,268       46,948        7,862        7,965         -               -          (67,043)
Capital 6/
Total Outlflowe        i21,957           266,225      177,442      232,252      248,078      256,044         256.044        82X001
Net Benefit Before
Financing
Total                     365,643          221,375      328,758      503,748      525,122      554,356         554,356       728,399
Incremental                              (144,268)    (36,885)    138,105         159,479      188,713         188,713       362,756
IRR - 60.4%                              lNPV (12%)  -  681,881
Financing
Loan Receipts
Medium Term Credit 7/                        126,000
Short Term Credit 8/                           4,268       51,216       59,078       67,043       67,043          67,043
Debt Service
Medium Term Credit                                         17,640       27,162       27,162       27,162            -             -
Short Tern Credit                                           4,950       59,414       68,530       77,769          77,769        77,769
Net Financing                                  130,268       28,626      (27.498)    (28,649)    (37,888)          (10,726)      (77,769)
Net Benefit After
Financing                   365,643          351,643      357,384      47b,250      496,473      516,468         543,630       650,630
Total
Incremental                                  (14,000)      (8,259)    110,607       130,830      150.825         177.987       284,987
Incremental Net
Benefit (a.F)                                   (175)        (103)       1,382        1,635        1,885           2,224         3,562
(Average Farmer)
Financial Rate of Return (IRR) to Irrigation Group/Farmers' Capital:  222.52                         NPV(121) -  661,191
Cash Position
Net Benefit (a.F)             365,643          351,643      357,384      476,250      496,473      516,468         543,630
Less Home Consumption 3/    350,000            350,000      350,000      350,000      350,000      350,000         350,000
Cash Surplus (Deficit)    15,643              1,643        7,384      126,250      146,473      166,468         193,630
Cash Surplus (Deficit)         195               20           92        1.578        1.830        2,080           2,420
(Average Farmer)
Percentage of Medium Term Credit Debt                                         18%           16Z         14%
Service to Average Farmer's Cash Surplus
1! For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs, except investments are deferred one year and an
incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made to allow for the time lags occurring between incremental costs and
benefits in different farming systems.  (See details in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis" EDI CN-67 August 1979 by N. Schaeffer
Kehnert).
2/ Year 12 has been added for discounting purposes only.
3/ Estimated STW equivalent price for DTW. See Annex 6, Tables 5, 6 and 7.
4/ See details Annex 2, Table 3.
5/ Assuming two cropping seasons, working capital ts estimated to amount to 50% of incremental operating cost of the following year.
Working capital is recovered at the end of the projection period as part of project salvage value.
6/ Salvage value of DTW. Estimate is based on full cost of DTV and not on its STW equivalent price.
7/ Medium Term Credit at 14% p.a., one year grace period, maturity period nine years to cover 90% of DTW investment costs (STW equivalent price).
8/ Short Term Credit at 16% p.a., to finance cumulative incremental working capital.
9/ Estimrated to be about Tk 12/day for an average farm family of six persons.  Tk 12/day represents the value of about
4 kgs. of grain.



ANNEX 6
lll                                           Table 4
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Financial Analysis for an Irrigation Group in the Old Brahbuputra Flood Plain 1/
(Poorly Drained Soils - 80 Acres)
Without
the
Project     Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5-10   Year 11    Year 12 2/
Inflows
Gross Value of Production       304,560      304,560     323,160      598,400      644,400      690,400      690,400      690,400
(Command Area)
Net Value of Production         270,000      270,000     270,000      270,000      270,000      270,000      270,000      270,000
Outside Command Area
Total Inflows           574,560      574,560      593,160      868,400      914,400      960,400      960,400      960,400
Outflows
Investment Costs 3/                         140,000                                                                      (107,000)6/
Cash Production Costs           121,957    121,957        128,952     232,242      250,091      267,940      267,940      267,940
Irrigation O&M Costs 41                                     2,851      51,027       58,264       65,413       65,413       65,413
Incremental Working Capital 5/                5,073       75,733        12,543      12,499         -                     (105,848)
Total Outflows         121,957    267,030        207,536      295.812      320,854      333,353      333,353      120,505
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                         452,603    307,530       385,624      572,588      593,546      627,047      627,047       839,895
Incremental                             (145,073)      (66,979)    119,985       140,943      174,444      174,444       387,292
IRR   51.2Z                 NPV(12S)  -  597,406
Financing
Loan Receipts
Medium Term Credit 7/                     126,000
Short Term Credit 8/                       5,073        80,806        93,349    105,848       105,848      105,848          -
Debt Service
Medium Term Credit                                       17,640        27,162     27,162       27,162
Short Term Credit                                        5,884        93,734    108,284       122,783      122,783       122,783
Net Financing                               131,073        57,282       (27,547)   (29,598)    (44,097)    (16,935)    (122,783)
Net Benefit after Financing
Total                         452,603    438,603       442,906       545,041    563,948       582,950      610,112       717,112
Incremental                              (14,000)       (9,697)       92,438    111,345       130,347      157,509       264,509
Incremental Net Benefits (a.F)                 (175)         (121)        1,155       1.391       1,629        1,968         3,306
(Average Farmer)
Financial Rate of Return to Irrigation Group/Farmers' Capital:  196.9%    NPV(12S) - 570,020
Cash Position
Net Benefit (a.F)               452,603    438,603       442,906        545,041    563,948      582,950      610,112
Less Home Consumption 9/        350,000    350,000       350,000        350,000    350,000      350,000      350,000
Cash Surplus (Deficit) 102,603       88,603        92,906       195,041    213,948       232,950      260,112
Cash Surplus (Deficit)   1,282        1,107         1,161         2,438       2,674        2.912        3,251
(Average Farmer)
Percentage of Medium Term Credit Debt
Service to Average Farmer's Cash Surplus                                     122         11%          10%
1/ For the purpose of the financial rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs, except investments are deferred one year and an
incremental working capital stream is introduced. These adjustments are made to allow for the time lags occurring between incremental costs and
benefits in different farming systems. (See details in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis" EDI CN-67 August 1979 by N. Schaeffer
Kehnert).
2/ Year 12 has been added for discounting purposes only.
3/ Estimated STW equivalent price for DTW. See Annex 6, Tables 5.6 and 7.
4/ See details Annex 2. Table 3.
5/ Assuming two cropping seasons, working capital is estimated to amount to 50% of incremental operating cost of the following year.
Working capital is recovered at the end of the projection period as part of project salvage value.
6/ Salvage value of DTW. Estimate is based on full cost of DTW and not on its STW equivalent price.
7/ Medium Term Credit at 14% p.a., one year grace period, maturity period nine years to cover 90% of DTW investment costs (STW equivalent price).
8/ Short Term Credit at 16% p.a., to finance cumulative incremental working capital.
9/ Estimated to be about Tk 12/day for an average farm family of six persons. Tk 12/day represents the value of about
4 kgs. of grain.



ANNEX 6
112                             Table 5
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
DTW Pricing Policy - STW Equivalent Price Calculation
1.  STW total cost per ac/inch                            36.1
2.  Minus DTW 0 and M cost per ac/inch                    22.93
3.  Balance available for capital cost                    13.19
4.  Annualized capital cost                               20892
5.  STW equivalent price                                 139600
140000
1/ Line 3 times ac/inch of water per year.
2/ Estimated total capital cost of DTW
corresponding to annualized costs (line 4)



ANNEX 6
* 113 -                          Table 6
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
DTW Pricing Policy - Cost Structure for STW 110ft Depth -
(Tk)
Items                                  Total Cost -/
1.  Diesel Engine 5-6hp                              12300 2/
2.  Pump                                              4200
3.  Accessories                                       1360
4.  GI Pipe 4" to 70'                                 4600 -/
5.  Brass Strainer                                    6200
6.  Mark-up                                           2300 -
7.  Carrying Charge                                    340
8.  Sinking Charge                                    1800
Total                                   34400
1/ Based on BADC information and mission estimates
STW assumed to be sold by private dealer.
2/ Including 15% import duties.
3/ Including 35% import duties and 20% taxes.
4/ Including 12% import duties and 20% taxes.
5/ Mark-up - 10%



- 114 -                           ANNEX 6
Table 7
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
DTW Pricing Policy - Estimated Cost of Water Using for STW and DTW
(800 hrs/year)
STW (6 hp)                           DTW (22hp)
(0.6 cusec)                           (2 cusec)
1.  Capital Cost (Tk)              34400 -                              393000
2. Annualized Capital
Cost (Tk)                    6054                                  58812
3.  0 and M Cost (Tk)
Pay of Operator              2200 3/                                2200
Diesel                       6240 -                                20800
Oil                            200 -                                 660
Spare-parts                  1640 6/                                9640
Channel Maintainance         1000 -                                 3000 -
Subtotal (Tk)        11280                                 36000
Total Annual Cost (Tk)        17334                                  95112
0 and M Cost
(Tk per ac/in)                23.50                                  22.92
Total Cost
(Tk per ac/in)                36.11                                  60.04
1/  STW - at 12% interest rate assumed to be the opportunity cost
of capital in Bangladesh; 7 year life of engine, 10 year
life for pumpset and 20 year life for remaining components
of STW.
2/  Diesel powered DTW (see details in Annex 2 Table 2) at  12% interest
rate assumed to be the opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh;
10 year life of engine, 12 year life of pumpset and 20 year life
for remaining components of DTW.
3/  Diesel at 0.05 gal/hp/hour at 26Tk/gallon.
4/  Oil consumption estimated at 0.75 of fuel consumption at TKllO/gallon.
5/  Taken as 5% of the capital cost of pump and engine (including duties
and taxes) per 1000 running hours.
6/  Taken as 10% of capital cost of engine and pump (including duties and
taxes) per 1000 running hours.
7/  Seasonal salary for part time ditch riders.  Mission estimate.



SANGLADESH                                                   AME 6
TABLE 8
DEP TUIZWELLS PROJ1CT II
Iconomic Costs and Returng to WAter
(Tk - eGonomic price.)
Madhupur Tract                    M4adhupur Tract            Old lrahmeputra Flood Plait.    Old Brahmaputra Flood Plains
Well Drained Soils               Poorly Drained Soils              Poorly Drained Soils                Well Drained Soils
(Aus/Whent - 80 acras)            (Aman/Boro - 80 acres)            (A_n/Boro - 80 acres)              (Auan/Wheat - 80 acres)
A. Cost Estimates
1. Capital Cosc 1/                      343,809                           343,809                             343,809                            343,809
2. Annualized Capital 2/                 51,382                             51.382                             51,382                             51,382
Cost
3. 0 and Y Cost
Pay of Operator                        1,245                              1,826                              1,826                              1,245
Diesel                                16,235                            35,693                              35.693                             15,629
Oil                                       514                             1.132                              1,132                                439
Well Maintanance & Spare               7,246                             15,939                             15,939                              6.977
Channel Reconstruction                 1,618                              1.618                              1,618                              1,618
Channel Maintenance                    1,660                             2,490                               2.490                              1,660
Miscellaneous Expenses                   830                                830                                830                                830
Sub-total                 29,348                            59,528                              59,52S                             28.452
4. total Costs                           S0,730                            110,910                            110,910                             79,834
5. Water Pumped ( 3/year)               136.706                           300,595                             300.595                            131,680
6. cost ner a3/vear                            0.59                              0.37                               0.37                               0.61
B. Value of Water
1. Incremental Net Value 3/             350,246                           286.376                            286,376                             281,660
of production (at full
development)
2. Water Requirements (a /year)         136,706                           300.595                             300,595                            131,689
3. Value of Water (Tk/m 3                      2.56                              0.95                               0.95                               2.14
1/  For standard 2 cusec diesel-powered DTW.
_/  At 121 which is considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh.  Life expectancy for engine is 10 years; for puapset 12 years
and well components 20 years.
3/  Met incremental Val.u of production: gros. val  of prodvtior -4-  aonomic cost for hired and family labor, fertilizers, plant protection,
bullocks and seeds minus net incom of present situation.



116
BANGLADESH                                ANNEX 7
TABLE 1
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Derivation of Prices for Rice and Wheat in the Economic Analysis
(1981 Constant Prices)
Items                                       Rice / Paddy                    Wheat
Aman       Aus/Boro
Projected World 1/                       510           510                   220
Market Price 1982-90
US$/M.T.
Freight to Bangladesh Port                32            32                    65
C.I.F. Chittagong (US$/M.T.)             542           542                   285
C.I.F. Chittagong (Tk/Md) -              394           394                   207
Adjustment for Quality 3/                  G.70          0.65                   0.90
Differential (factor)
Adjusted C.I.F. Price (Tk/md)            275           256                   186
Local Costs between Port -/               18            18                    20
and Market (Tk/Md)
Market Price (Tk/Md)                     293           274                   206
Local Costs between -/                   -63           -63                   -42
Market and Farmgate (Tk/Md)
Sub-total                        230           211                    164
Processing Ratio                           0.65          0.65                  1
Farmgate Price (Tk/Md)                   150           137                   164
1/ Source: IBRD Price forecasts dated December 24, 1981.
Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken FOB Bangkok; Wheat Canadian
No.1 Western Red Spring in store Thunder Bay.
2/ Official exchange rate of Tk 19.5 = US$1 One metric ton
(M.T.) = 26.8 maunds
3/ For 25% to 35% broken. Larger percent for Aus and Boro
crops which are of inferior quality.
4/ DaLa supplied by Ministry of Food adjusted by a SCF of
0.o3 for non-traded items.
5/ Costs established by a GOB study and adjusted by SCF
of 0.83 for non-traded items.



* 117 -
BANGLADESH                               ANNEX 7
TABLE 2
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Derivation of Fertilizer Prices used in the Economic Analysis
(1981 Constant Prices)
Items                                    Urea                   TSP                   MP
11 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~M
Projected Average-                        248                   207                    107
World Maket Price
1982-90 (US$/M.T)
Adjustment for Bags (US$)                  -                     30                     30
Adjusted Projected Price (US$/M.T)        248                   237                    137
Freight to Bangladesh (US$/M.T)           +2/:                  +65                   +65
Cif in Bags Chittagong (US$/M.T)          268                   302                    202
cif in Bags Chittagong (Tk/Md) -          195                   220                    147
Local Cost between Port   4               -24                    24                     24
and District Store(Tk/Md) -
Market Price(Tk/Md)                       171                   244                    171
Local Cost between District5/              32                    32                     32
Store and Farmgate(Tk/Md) -
Farmgate Price(Ek/Md)                     203                   276                    203
1/ Source: IBRD Price forecasts dated December 24, 1981.
Urea bagged FOB Europe; TSP FOB US soIW in bulk, MP
Vancouver in bulk.
2/ Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because
of proximity to market in South Asia would command
a price advantage over European suppliers.
3/ Official exchange rate of Tk 19.5 = US$ 1. One metric
ton ('1.T) = 26.8 maunds.
4/ Data supplied by Ministry of Food adjusted by a SCF of
0.83 for non-traded items.
5/ Costs established by a GOB study and adjusted by a
SCF of 0.83 for non-traded items.



118 -
BANGLADESH                            ANNEX 7
TABLE 3
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Financial and Economic Prices
(1981 constant prices)
Thana                              Financial Prices                      Economic Prices 1!
Tk/md                               Tk/md
Crops
Paddy:  Aus                               115                                  137
Aman                             124                                  150
Boro                             115                                  137
Wheat                                     124                                  164
Oilseed Crops                             320                                  177
Inputs
Fertilizers
Urea                             132                                  203
TSP                              112                                  276
M,p                               90                                  203
Pesticides 2                            10800                                10800
Seed
Paddy (HYV)                      160                                  195
Paddy (local)                    124/115                              124/115
Wheat (HYV)                      120                                  250
Other Inputs
Animal Power (pair day) -/                 22                                   18.3
Labor (man/day) 4/                 15                                    8.5
1/  See Annex 7 Tables 1 and 2
2/  All subsidies on pesticides have been removed and the
marketprivatized.  Hence, the financial and
economic prices are the same.
3/  Adjusted by SCF 0.83.
4/  Economic price of labor is assumed to be 68% of
the financial price to reflect the prevailing
degree of unemployment and underemployment adjusted
by SCF = 0.83.



BANGLADESH                                                      ANNEX 7
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II                                               Table 4
Economic Analysis I/
(Tk. '000)
Year      Investment and        Project         Farm              Irrigation       Working         Total       Total          Net
Replacement          Operating       Production          Costs          Capital 6/      Costs       Benefits        Benefits
Costs 2/            Costs           Costs 5/
1         519,879             17,297              -                 -              2,998         540,174        -           - 540,176
2         623,360             14,324            5,140                857          38,721         682,402      14,104        - 668,298
3         357,259             13,124           67,502             15,938         102,951         556,774    190,308         - 366,466
4          178,498            14,588          231,455             57,888         117,107         599,536    652,557             53,021
5            1,373             2,100 4/       418,194            105,364         117,298         644,329  1,170,031           525,702
6            -                 2,100          604,223            153,931          28,123         788,377  1,682,568           894,191
7            -                 2,100          649,433            164,967          13,782         830,282  1,793,436           963,154
8            -                 2,100          671,502            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
9            -                 2,100          671,502            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499          1,009,434
10          44,946              2,100          671,502            170,463            -            889,011  1,853,499           964,488
11         119,280              2,100          671,502            170,463            -            963,345  1,853,499           890,154
12         138,360              2,100          671,502            170,463            -            982,425  1,853,499           871,074
13         176,520              2.100          671,502            170,463            -          1,020,585  1,853,499           832,914
14          57,240              2,100          671,502            170,463            -            901,305  1,853,499           952,194                         e
15          58,613              2,100          671,501            170,463            -            902,678  1,853,499           950,821
16            -                 2,100          671,501            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
17            -                 2,100          671,501            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
18            -                 2,100          671,501            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
19            -                 2,100          671,501            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
20            -                 2,100          671,501            170,463            -            844,065  1,853,499         1,009,434
21        (163,788) 3/          2,100          671,501            170,463        (420,980)        259,297  1,853,499          1,594,202
IRR - 30.4
NPV (12%) - 2,878 M
1/  For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculations, all benefits and costs, except investments are deferred one year and an
incremental working capital stream is introduced.  These adjustments are made to allow for the time lags occurring between incremental
costs and benefits in different farming systems. (See details in "Methodology of Farm Investment Analysis" EDI CN-67 August 1979 by
N. Scaheffer Kehnert).
2/  Life expectancy of DTW engine - 10 years; pumpsets - 12 years; cars and jeeps - 5 years.
3/ Salvage value of DTW engines and pumpsets only.
4/ IRDP and training costs only.
5/ Including farm family labor.
6/ Introduction of a working capital stream to reflect farmers need (liquidity) to meet operating costs about half a year before the
benefits are received.  Working capital is equal to 50% of the difference between farm production and irrigation costs for each year
and the following year. Working capital is recovered at the end of project projection period, as part of its salvage value.



- 120                           ANNEX 8
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT II
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
1. "Report of the Bangladesh Deep Tubewells Project" by Preparation
Mission. FAO/CP Investment Centre. Report No. 37/81 BGD-27 dated
October 6, 1981. Main report with 10 annexes.
B. Selected Working Paper
1. Working Papers on Tender Documents, prepared by FAO/CP Investment
Centre, October 6, 1981.
2. Bibliography.



121
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELLS PROJECT
TYPICAL WELL SECTION
(DIESEL POWERED)
Gearbox
8" dia.                                                         HaHrdy  spicer shaft
discharge pipe                                          L        d Clutch
Level of pwel c                                                  14" die.
emounti-                                                                 - Engling 6" d
gn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sre 6'da
Gravel ftMovement Joint
loPump suspension tube
SeCtiOn A-A                                           2   .         ~       Still water lewl
construco  se O. N.Outlet connection
Lowest normal working water level    .            -|sCenter line of first stage impeller
Pump bsyi                    mt                   Inlet tO pump body
4       1                   ~~~~~~~~Working water level
Lower and of wsution pipe
1 b           ~~~Upper vvell casing 14" dia.
_  T  r          ~~~Reducer
~~~~Lower well casing 6" dia.
.. _ , . ~~~where ordered
, &    r.         ~~~Screen 6" dia.
r           ~~~~Gravel filter
<            ~~~~Lower well casing 6'' dia.
:  ~~~~~where ordered
+            ~~~~~Bail plug 6'' dia.
s ;'-0"   l W                ~~~~~Centralizer
NOTES                                                            t2:tw
1. For details of tubevvell house
construction see Drg. No. iDA DTW 4                               20''
2. D imensions are typical oniv
Diameter                                              WVorld Bank-23532



122
BANG LAD ESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
TYPICAL WELL SECTION
(ELECTRICALLY POWERED)
To P.B. or
REB. pole -.-
112'" G.l. Pipe      p    e.o
Tubewell house for details see                                                         Mains supply
drg. n. IDADTW 4                                              
Control 
Discharge box         8" dia
for details see       discharge pipe
drg. n. IDADTW 4
_   _                _                |=           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Pump power cables and  
A A                                                                     lovwb level electrode    
I  $ x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.G. L.
__O. G.L.
Combined coverplate
LL U-        and rising main
oL O  anrsngano  f   Approved movement joint >-t 
support
ra l                        ~~~~~~~~~Still water level  RllL    ising main
l                    ~~~~~~Pump set power cables 
Lowest normal working water level
Low water level electrode
Center line first stage impelier
Submersible pumpset
14" dia. upper well casing pipe
World Bank-23533



123
BANG LAD ESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECTS
Implementation Schedule
Yawr                          Yer 2                         Yea  3                       Year 4
ActwirVi                                Prei-Proluct    Dr-,Monoon-Dr--O--Dr
SDr       i    Anmon           Dry         Monsson         Sron          Monsoon          Dro          Monsoon
Procurement of GRP and Mild Steel                                                        D
Well Components                                                                          D
Procurement of Stainle  Steel Screen                              D
Procurement of Pumps and Motors                                   _                      _
Procurement of Drilling Rigs andc
Auciliarien
Site Selection                                                                                                                                     .         .....
Irsuing Drilling Con,racts
Well Construction
Commissoning ot Wells                                                  -_
Procurement of Vehicles anc
Equipment
Training of BADC Staff                                                         ..... .............................. ........................................
Pilot Projects Equipment Procurement
Pilot Projects Impiementation and
Monitoring                                                                                                .........._...................................
Studies
Full-time Actiolty                                                                                                        World Bank-23534
.Pars-time Activity
........... Part-nme Actiyits
D       Defiverv



IBRD 16189
)          goO                                                                                 9'0                            BANGLADESH                                        FEERUARY 1982
8)           T,hs map has boon prepared bV the
Wo)ld -- t staff essise/y tot                                                                    DEEP  TUBEWELL  PROJECT
th. conPn,n,  o h ( the-re drsf
the report to edhich e ls attached
The denorme,ioe,s tsed end the
1   ottdar,eotshownt so th,t map
^ ^   do not ,rnpt on the part of the                                                                           _        PPROJECT AREA
World Pa-k and its sf0lrates. any
Judgmef -t othlg alstatvo                                                            i                                   STUDY AREA
a nV territtr orV err! enndorsement                                                    J
o ert epteone of sooh boundar-es                                                                                        ROADS
RAILWAYS
THANA BOUNDARIES
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/                                                 ,.                                                                  -      -       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I N D I A
KILOMETERS i                   20               40               E0               Bp
I LES 0           10            2h            30           40            do
o> SRahadu rabad|
G-t ~        ~          ~           '
240  G-ae                Jrrris _JSso-a
lJamalpu~~~~~~hsrgo                                          U      -   -  '\,hl - / '
,                   Shapgur                       .       .      -an
23
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gf' KannaohDanl                                                                                     H                                          t~ b,/
/. \-:
-to--I                                                                                    X          SaXtgaEt-  
Tangail,    , '!
.  <  Srspuri . X ~~t / . 3 Sr,p!
-- O                                                      ~                                  ,                      ,r-:
F  .                 /    ,  8                                       ~~~~~~I N D I A
I)~~~~~~~NI
INDIA                           27-'2>\             220
j~~~~    1.URM
-- ,I,,1,: '.9                                      L\-  
9O         2-.                                                                     92
L          '_________________________________________________                              - -' S~ .T  Ch n                                                         I            -






Itie  <<\  ., S9                  90'                                                                      92'
BANGLADESH
DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
Thickness of Upper Clay and Silt
Range of thickness of
-26*                                                                                          upper clay  and  silt (ft.):                Road
3 -15                          ~~~~~Railways
15 -50                                         Raivwoys 
'w              50 - 80                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Internaitional
boundaries
,'  g/  '> 9>i         ii                                        -  ~~~~~~~~more than 115
;25'                                                                                                                                                                      25ha'
/  Sa.,tha                                                                                                                       ih tlce
-A TA VL0< AILA
~~   T4N~~~~~AL ~~-~Habigani
-24'                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24'-
RANGAMATI
DAT2V' NO6T AVA[L-ABLc~
i * - = 4_ \ rr rfi - !, ' CHITTAGONG                                                                  NOT
This map has bhen  prepared by the
Workd Banks staff exclus-ve - for'
the convenience of the readers of    .                                                                                                                               -
the report toehh it isattached.
The deno`oatisns s`ed and the                                                                                                                                               -
boundaries shown on thns map - P                      .
do not iply, -o the part of the
World Bank and itS affifiatas, any  _
judg-ent en the legal status of
any terrtory or any andorsement                                                                                                                      A VA /LABL Z=
or acceptance of o-ch boundaries.-
BANGLADESHj                                           -
Dot,ca@A   c                                                                                 
I N D I A                        >2t     
0             25            50             75 MILES                 N
-21'                                                                                                            .                21'
0                50                100 KILOMETERS
SRI LANKA                                                                                                                                                        :O
90'                                  91'                                 92'                         'oO
I                                               I  ~ ~ ~ ~~~-Po~~~






n 9  8\   % ~819                       910-                         '                           92
^\X}  10 \                                           ~~~~BANGLADESH
vn %  <  V X                                ~~DEEP TUBEWELL PROJECT
A411           ,                                              7 :  Interstrearn Depolsits of SlSyt,     Plitcn  Aluvum ma6iknly>
0t/'<  f f i  d fi                  L  (undiiferentisted)                  S  ~~~~~~~Miocene Sedimqentary Rocks
+ V \ 9<>$ 19 WBesch Sand ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water Level Contours (as of
\   tS  >  2  /0     91  r   tS                S  ~~~~~~~~~~~Piedmont Deposits           June, 1979, in feet)
T   {  >tW   X       2  / goe>t/5           [=  ~~~~~~~~~~Terrace & Meander Deposits      Rivers
, J/ 8zoSi X U 2xoc R ~~~~~~~~~~Swcamp Dleposits, mainly                        -       International Boundaries
3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V Hi:
-R23'                                                                                                                              23D-.,e 2
-igne 0t on the legadsats of ' !-/
deN D  ti   use j d th>e
b' ' f:  '  ,h.  -21 th -55 j ILSJ'
B R   ANK                                                                                                                      _
.                   9j0                         91                        9,2        &         t 0 T



