/I-1   V I7  AXL T
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10475-ME   Type:  (SAR)                      ReportNo. 10475-ME
ZEARLEY, T/ X38758 / I8 100/ LA2IE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 26, 1992
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        Pesos (Mex$)
US$1.00                         -    Mex$3057 (as of 5/20/92)
Monthly Minimum Wage            =    Mex$399,900 (as of 5/20/92)
(in the Federal District)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decemoer 31
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) -    10,600 sq. meters (m2) - 2.47 acres (a)
1 meter (m)    -    3.28 feet (ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS        Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos S.N.C. (National
Development Bank for Public Works and Services)
CETES           Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federaci6n (Treasury Bills)
CPP             Costo Promedio Porcentual de Captacion (Average Cost of Funds
to the Banking System)
FICAPRO         Fideicomiso Casa Propia (Fund for Home Ownership)
FONHAPO         Fondo de Habitaciones Populares (Government's Low-Income
Housing Fund)
FOVI            Fondo de Operaci6n y Financiamiento lancario a la Vivienda
(Housing Fund for Commercial Banks)
FOVISSSTE       Fondo de la Vivienda del Sistema de Seguridad Social de los
Trabajadores del Estado (Housing Fund of the Social Security
System for State Service Workers)
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
INFONAVIT       Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los
Trabajadores (Institute of the National Housing Fund for
Workers)
MMW.s           Multiples of Monthly Minimum Wage
SEDUE           Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Ministry of Urban
Development and Ecology)
SHCP            Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Publico (Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit)



FOR OFMCLL USE ONLY
HOUSING MAET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY     ....................................... . i-i*    i
I.    THE HOUShI SECTOR
A. Macroeconomic Setting ...... . .. ....... .......... .............    1
B. Housing Conditions ... ... ... 0.0................. ..............................   2
C. The Construction Industry ........ .. .......*.............. s...    3
D.  The Housing and Housing Finance System.................              3
Role of the Publi- Housing Agencies ......                     4
Role of Pensions' Funds Housing Programs .................. .   5
Role of the Commercial Banks. ........ .0. ........ .  .........   6
Role of FOVI. ..... .... s  .... .......               ..      9
E.   Sector  Isse....oou.o-....    o .........o.....o....o.... o.       13
P.  Government's Strategy for the Housing Sector ........ see . .........  17
G. Experience with Past Bank Lending   ....     .8.....................  i
H.  Bank Sector Support Strategy and Rationale for
Involvement ............... ... *  ..............                 19
II.   THE PROJECT
A.  Background .............. s ...     ... .................    20
B. Project Objectives ...... .o ........... . .... ..      . .20
C.  Project Description ....... . .. .         see ....... ............. .  21
D.  Project Implementation  . ...................................  23
E.  Project Costs and Financing Plan .............# .................  27
F.   Disbursements .......ses............  ..........  . .. * .......    28
G.  Procurement ...................................                     28
H. Accounting and Auditing ... . ......... ...... ..... ............. .  29
I.  Project Benefits*. ......... s ........ .   .. .....................  29
J. Environmental Impact   .. .......................... ..........  30
K.  Risks and Safeguards ........ . ............. ...............  30
III. AGREEMEYTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.  During Negotiations ..... ...... s  ...............................  30
B. Effectiveness... ... .s ..... ..... . ........ ......  .......  . . ......  32
This report is based on the appraisal mission which visited Mexico in
tanuary/February 1992. Mission members vere: Messrs./Imes. Thomas Zearley (Task
Manager, LA2IZ), Peter Doty (Cons.), Tova M. Solo (Cons.), Violeta Rosenthal
(Economist, LA2C1), and Feresc Molar (Lawyer, LEGLA). It also incorporates the
findings of earlier preparation work by Messrs. Samuel Talley (Financial Cons.)
and David Wilk (Envirormental Cons.). Ma. Angela Chioariu assisted in producing
the report. Mr. Ricardo Halperin is the managing Division Chief and Mr. Rainer
Steckhan the Department Director responsible for the operation.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex 1. Estimated Total Housing Investment and Number of Mortgages Approved by
Type of Housing Institution in 1991
Annex 2. Mortgage Lending of Commercial Banks and FOVI (1989-1991)
Annex 3. FOVI Financing Operations and Credit Auctions
Annex 4.  FOVI Historical Financial Results and Financi.l Projections
Annex 5A. Key Features of the FOVI Model Agreement
Annex 5B. Li-st of Mexican States and Signature Status of FOVI Deregulation
Agreements
Annex 6. FOVI Regulatory Cost Survey Data for 1991
Annex 6A. Regulatory Costs in FOVI Surveys
Annex 6B. December 1991 Survey of Regulatory Costs
Annex 7. Federal Government Housing Sector Policy Declaration With Respect to a
World Bank Loan to FOVI
Annex 8. Terms of Reference for Studies:
a)   policy options for the creation of a secondary mortgage market within
the Mexican housing finance system
b)   development of a salary index for adjusting payments on FOVI mortgages
c)   housing market information requirements
Annex 9. Regulatory Environment Assessment Information for Mexican States
Annex 10. FOVI Monitoring Indicators and Performance Targets
Annex 11. Mexico Housing Sector Monitoring Indicators
Annex 12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Map IBRD 20343



HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AM PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Executing          Banco de Mexico as trustee of Fondo de Operacion y Financimiento
Asency:            Bancario a la Vivienda (FOVI)
Loan Amount:       US$450 million
Terms:             15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Ralendina          The Borrower would onlend the proceeds of the Loan to Banco de
Termgt             Mexico as trustee of FOVI in Pesos at the Government's treasury
bill rate of interest (CETES). Private builders would construct
houses and sell them in the market at their own risk, using
mortgage funds under the FOVI credit line, for which builders
would bid through public auctions. The commercial banks would be
responsible for mortgage loan approvals, collecting downpayments
and mortgage payments from homebuyers, and debt servicing to
FOVI. They would bear the credit risk on the mortgage loans and
would charge the homebuyers a one-time upfront loan origination
fee and commissions on monthly payments, both of which would be
market determined. In addition, depending on the FOVI house type
financed, the commercial banks would be paid by FOVI a fee of 21
or 3Z annually on the outstanding mortgage loan balance. FOVI
funds would be lent to homebuyers at the banking system's average
cost of term funds (CPP), plus the one-time upfront origination
fee and the monthly commissions. FOVI's income would be derived
from the auction premiums paid by the developers and the mortgage
repayments from commercial banks at CPP less the fee of 21 or 31.
These arrangements result in lending terms to the homebuyer that
are aligned to market conditions, and allow FOVI to cover its
funding and overhead costs. The Government would assume the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the proposed Bank
loan.
Project            In addition to expanding the supply of mortgage finance for low-
Obiectives:        cost housing to be built by private developers, the project would
support the Government in (i) removing regulatory barriers in
order to lower housing costs and to encourage private commercial
banks to increase lending for housing; (ii) broadening and
deepening the housing policy dialogue to include inter-alia the
expansion and liberalization of the urban land market, the
improvement in the cost recovery and operational performance of
the quasi-public pension funds' housing programs, and the further
integration of the housing finance market with the overall



- ii -
financial system; (iii) improving FOVI's mortvage instrument and
its onlending mechanism .o as to stimulate commercial bank
interest in lending for low-cost housing; and (iv) improving
information on the ho-sing market.
Proiect            The project would have four broad components, as follows: (a)
Descriltion:       Regulatorv Reform Component.  The project would assist in further
developing and supporting ongoing FOVI measures to eacourag.i
state and local governments to reduce their regulatory burdens on
housing. As state and local governments are largely autonomous
from the national government, the project would rely on market
mechanisms (the POVI funds auctions) reinforced by public
pressures created by the dissemination of information on
regulatory costs and on government deregulation commitments to
key housing market participants so that they can induce states
and municipalities to change their regulatory frameworks. (b)
Housing Sector Policy Comgonent. Under this component, the
Government has provided a Sector Policy Declaration which spells
out its medium-term strategy for the sector and specifies
measures it will take to address important sector issues. (c)
FOVI Cred.t Line Comoonent. The project would help fund a share
of FOVI's 1992-96 lend:'ng program for houses with a selling price
of not greater than 130 -multiples of the monthly m'nimum wage
(MMWs) (US$17,000), targeted to households earning less than 5
MMWs (US$650).  The propo -4 loan would finance about 28% of
FOVI's future lending pr~g- a, estimated to cost about US$1.6
billion equivalent.  (d) S.adies ComRonent.  The project would
include studies on the development of a new wage index to adjust
payment; on FOVI mortgages, on the creation of a secondary
mortgage market, and on a development plan to improve housing
market: information. IBRD financiag would be provided exclusively
for component (c).
Proiect            The project would increase the supply of affordable housing to
Benefits:          lower-income households, especially by promoting the provision of
non-traditional housing solutions. In addition, the improvements
in the efficiency of the housing finance system and deregulation
measures should be reflected in an overall reduction in the
relative price of housing and an increase in housing production.
Furthermore, the project studies would provide the analytical
basis for important future government action to improve both
public and private sector participation in the housing market,
and for the integration of the housing finance system with the
overall financial markets, which should lead to enhanced
liquidity and resource mobilization for mortgage lenders. As the
project will offer home financing to low- and moderate-income
households, many of today's environmental problems derived from
substandard housing conditions will not be reproduced in newly-
developed areas.
Project Risks:    Since the initiation of project preparation, the Government has
taken measures *.o address key sector constraints regarding inter
alia the urban land market and the operations and cost recovery
of pension funds' housing programs. There are no specific risks



- iii -
with regard to the Government'e fulfillment of commitments made
under the project. Past Bank experience in Mexico's hiousing
sector is that once a program is agreed, implementation has
proceeded smoothly. The principal project risk is that the
market mechanisms to induce deregulation may not bea fully
effective, or may take longer to have a significant impact than
envisaged under the project. To minimize risks, the project
includes cumulative limits on loan disbursements to FOVI to
ensure adequate time for the deregulation mechanisms to be
implemented and to show results. Additionally, the project
provides for annual and mid-term reviews, requiring the
Government to take remedial actions, should the pace toward
achieving the project's objectives be deemed unsat-sfact r
Estmsted Proiect Costss                  Local        Foreign       Total
--------(US$ Million)----------
FOVI Credit Program                       1,196         398         1,594
_____  ____  ,"__
Percentage Distribution                      75          25           100
Financina Plan:
FOVI                                        984                       984
IBRD                                         52         398           450
Homebuyers' Downpayments                    160                       160
Total                          1,196         398         1,594
Estimated Disbursements:                         Bank FY
1993     1994      1995      1996       1997
- -------------(US$ Million)--------------
Annual                         120 a/    180         75        55        20
Cumulative                     120       300        375       430       450
Retroactive
Financina:          Up to US$5.0 million for eligible expenditures as of April
22, 1992
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
a/   Includes retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million equivalent and
initial deposit of US$30.0 million in Special Account.



MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Macroeconomic Settir.=
1.1       The 1980s were a difficult period for the Mexican economy.  The
decade began with rising world interest rates and falling oil prices, which
eventually led the Government to declare a moratorium on its external debt
service, and resulted in fiscal deficits and devaluations of the peso that
£ueled an inflationary spiral. In 1982, the Government established controls
on interest rat.s and nationalized the banking system to ensure its solvency
under deteriorated market circumstances. However, the expanded role of the
state in the financial system conveyed a message over time that served to
undermine public and investor confidence.
1.2       Domestic inflation, which was 282 in 1981, climbed sharply to a
peak of 159Z in 1987. Between 1982 and 1987, no real economic growth
oc_..rved, 2er capita income dropped sharply and real wages fell by more than
-40.  The country's economic problems were exacerbated by a severe earthquake
which struck Mexico City in 1985.
:.3       In early 1986 the Government initiated a program of substantial
eonomic reforms, relaxing restrictions on foreign investment, privatizing
*indreds of publicly-held companies and opening protected domestic markets to
fcreign competition--all in an effort to get the economy moving forward.
Ho-ever, it wasn't until laLe 1987 when the Government successfully negotiated
the first in a series of Economic Solidarity Pacts with business and labor,
snd reached agreement with external creditors on a debt restructuring package,
that the economy was finally put on the slow road to vecovery. The success of
the stabilization program was reflected in the sharp drop in the inflation
rate, which fell from 159Z in 1987, to 30Z in 1988, and to 19Z in 1991. GDP
growth has picked up, reaching 3.91 for 1990 and 4.0Z for 1991. Real wages
have also improved since 1987, although they are far below where they were
before the economic crisis began.
1.4       Now, with a well-formulated program of economic reform in place and
discussions underway with the United States and Canada on a Free Trade
Agreement, Mexico's economic prospects are encouraging. Business confidence
is growing, as reflected in the return of flight capital and increased private
investment. With the divestment of a large number of enterprises it had
controlled almost completed (including the commercial banks), and a
consolidated fiscal position, the Government is now giving priority to
rebuilding public infrastructure, addressing environmental problems, and
alleviating povert-. Tho housing market has been a focus of the reform
program. Housing shortages are considered to be one of the country's most
pressing problems and the Government has become increasingly aware that public
policies and institutione as well as legal and regulatory practices must
change even further in the future if the nation's housing problems are to be
solved.



-2-
B. Housing Conditions
1.5       Housing's Role in the Economy and the Demand.  Over the past
decade, Mexico's total investment in housing has averaged about 32 of GDP
which is comparable to other countries at a similar stage of development.
However, this level of investment has not been sufficient to prevent the
nation's housing deficit from rAaching an estimated 6 million units, or about
402 of the existing housing stock of 15 million units. The deficit implies
that 352 of Mexico's population lacks adequate housing.- Ovar the next four
years, an estimated 980,000 new units will be required annually to prevent
Mexico's housing shortages from increasing even further. New family
formations account for about four-fifths of this need. The remaining one-
fifth reflects the need to replace old substandard housing. Most of the
demand will be concentrated at the low-income end of the housing market.
Government estimates indicate that during the 1992-95 period, three-fourths of
the newly-formed families will earn less than four minimum wages, or the
equivalent of US$520 per month in February 1992 prices. Historically,
families in this income group have not had access to formal sector housing
finance, except through programs supported by the public sector (paras. 1.13-
1.14).
1.6       About 67% of Mexico's housing units are owner-occupied.  The
remaining 33Z of total units are rented. Private investment in rental housing
declined during the 1980's, largely because of macroeconomic conditions which
diminished investor's confidencs and stood in the way of long-term investment.
In addition, there has been a scarcity of long-term mortgage financing
combined with unfavorable fiscal policies which reduced investment yields on
rental housing. To promote investment in rental housing, beginning in 1987
the Government encouraged commercial banks and public agencies to open new
lines of credit for rental properties and offered fiscal incentives, such as
accelerated depreciation and tax credits to investors. In this regard, the
Government is supporting a small Mexico City-based pilot program, called
FICAPRO ("Fideicomiso Casa Propia"), which offers mortgage loans to low-income
renters for the purchase and upgrading of their rental units. If this
experiment proves successful, the program could serve as a model for other
state and local governments to address housing problems in deteriorating inner
city areas. Only a handful of Mexican cities have laws which limit or control
rental prices and even then Government studies have shown that such controls
are being systematically evaded as local authorities lack the capacity to
ensure their enforcement. Nevertheless, despite recent concerted efforts, the
national government has not yet convinced all local governments to abandon
rent controls which are popular among certain politically-influential tenant
groups.
1.7       Sunplv.  While housing production has grown steadily from 538,000
units in 1985 to 625,000 units in 1990, it still lags significantly behind
existing and new housing needs (para. 1.5). Furthermore, 50Z of housing
production is provided by the informal housing sector, without access to
formal sector credit, and this housing is generally of poor quality, located
often on illegal land and lacking basic public services. With the decline in
I/ The housing deficit is based on the number of overcrowded units, which the
Government defines as those with more than 2.5 persons per room.



- 3 -
inflation (and interest rates) in recent years, and with real incomes growing,
the formal sector is expected to broaden its coverage to finance more
developers and homebusers. For those who do not qualify for such financing,
the Government proposes to channel additional funds, for low-cost housing
solutions such as urbanized lots, neighborhood upgrading and tenure
regularization, and individual home improvements, through public housing
agencies (para. 1.13).
C. The Construction Industrv
1.8       Mexico's construction industry is highly developed, and capable of
carrying out works efficiently and at relatively low costs. While there are
more than 10,000 small firms and contractors that build homes in Mexico, the
majority of new housing projects are built by 500 or so large and medium-size
developers spread throughout the country. With the recent improvement in
Mexico's economic conditions, the construction industry is beginning to emerge
from a serious slump that has lasted nearly a decade. The home building
industry is an important subsector within the Mexican economy because of its
size and its high employment, generation potential.
D.  The Housing and Housina Finance Syst
1.9       The Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) is
charged by the 1983 Federal Housing Law to coordinate overall housing sector
activities, to develop and administer housing policies, to coordinate the
housing programs of the public agencies, other than the payroll funds, and to
help formulate the public agencies' investment programs.-' SEDUE plays other
key roles in the housing market. It is responsible for advising and ass:'.sting
state and local governments in the administration of regulations and in the
preparation of urban development and land use plans. SEDUE also administers
the expropriation of publicly-held agricultural lands for transfer to urban
use, thereby helping to determine the amount of undeveloped land available for
new housing development (para. 1.40).
1.10      Mexico's housing finance system is segmented into three
institutional groups, each with its own operational procedures, financial
instruments and eligible beneficiaries. Commercial banks, whose own funding
is complemented by resources from the Fondo de ODeracion v Financiamiento
Bancario a la Vivienda (FOVI), a special trust fund of the Central Bank, form
the largest mln-gle source of mortgage credit. The second major source of
mortgage fi. .:e comes from several quasi-public pension funds which operate
housing pi   gms administered by a tri-partite council with representatives of
the Goverv *^t, the employers' associations and workers' unions.  The third
and smallest providers of mortgage credit are the gublic housing agencies
which operate with government transfers at the federal, state and local
levels.
2/ In May 1992, the Mexican Congress was considering legislation to
restructure SEDUE. However, whatever changes Congress may approve are not
expected to alter significantly SEDUE's responsibilities in the housing
sector.



- 4 -
1.11      During 1991, the housing finance systnm financed an estimated
348,000 units (Annex 1) with an investment equivalent to US$5.4 billion. The
banks provided about 53Z of this amount with their own resources and an
additional 7S with FOVI financing, the penuion funds 282, and the public
hcusing agencies accounted for the remaining 12S. Despite their small share
in the total amount of fund&ng provided, the public housing agencies, which
finance low-cost serviced lc.s8 as well as core houses, produced 342 of all
units completed in 1991, while the commercial banks and FOVI together
accoLnted for 361 and the pension funds for the remaining 302.
1.12      The key features and roles of the main groups of institutions
providing housing finance are summarized in Table 1 and described in the
following paragraphs.
Table 1: Major Housing Fir fCs Institutions
Key Feature     Comlt Banks     FOVI           Pension Funds   Public Agencies
Lending in 1991 (US$ Mn.)    $2,870   S353            $1,484          $678
1991-Lending Share (X)    53            7                28             12
1991-Total No. of New      92          32               107            117
Mortgages CO00s)
Main Type of Housing  Higher Cost    Finished Houses   Finished Houses  Se-viced Lots/
Financed             Finished                                        Cori) Houses
Houses
Typical Cost of Housing   $18,000 and    S10,O0-S20,00J   S11,000-S20,000  S2,000-SlO1000
Unit                 Up
Predominant Employ-  Salaried     Saleried         Sataried/         Non-Salaried
ment Status of Homebuyer                          Contributor
Nonthly Income of Primary  Above 5 M.U.   Below 5 M.W.  Betow 5 N.W.  Below 2.5 H.W.
Beneficiary Group (in
MuLtiples of Minimum
Wage, M.W.).
Role of The Public Housln_ Agencies
1.13      Public housing agencies exist at the federal and local levels
funded by budgetary contributions. Certain agencies are managed autonomously
within larger programs for priority projects such 8s tourism development,
renovation of Mexico City, or housing for the staL. of the petroleum and
electricity corporations. The Federal Government's low-income housing fund,
the Pondo Nacional de Babitaciones Populares (FONHAPO), is the largest and
most important public housing agency. FONHAPO, the beneficiary of two World
Bank loans (paras. 1.52 and 1.54), deals with the largest and poorest segment



- 5 -
of the market; i.eo., mainly non-salaried workers1/ earning leos than 2.5
times the minimum wage (or the equivalent of about US$300 per month). Lump-
sum subsidies to beneficiaries witlh good repayment records allow FONHAPO to
reach the poorest target groups. FORHAPO lends directly to subborrowers (such
as state and municipal housing authorities, housing cooperatives and credit
unions) representing low-income beneficiaries. Under the PONHAPO scheme,
subborrowers are responsible for designing, preparlng, contracting and
supervising the construction of their housing projects, for collecting loan
payments from beneficiaries, and for repaying the PONHAPO loans. PONHAPO
provides technical assistance to subborrowers and to final beneficiaries in
all of the above activities.
1.14      FONHAPO loans to final beneficiaries average around US$4,000 for
projects as varied as core houaes, urbanized lots, public service
installations, home improvements, with and without self-help construction. In
1987 FONHAPO adopted a mortgage instrument indexed to the mnlimum wage, which
led to a substantial improvement in its cost recovery. This wage-based
instrument was subsequently modified and improved in 1989, as a condition for
s second World Bank low-income housing loan (para. 1.54).1I
Role of the Pension Funds' Housina Proarams
1.15      Housing programs managed by two separate pension funds constitute
the second major source of housing finances the Instituto del Fondo Nacional
de la Vivienda para los Trabajadores (INFONAVIT) for private sector employees,
and the Instituto de la Vivienda del Sistema de Seguridad Social de los
Trabajadores del Estado (FOVISSSTE) for public sector workers.'/ Both
pension funds receive contributions from emplovera equal to 52 of their wage
bills and both make loans to groups of workers (whose individual earnings are
generally less than 5 minimum wages) for home construction, acquisitions or
improvements. Local union representatives have had significant say in
determining which groups and individuals receive mortgage loans.
1.16      INFONAVIT is by far the largest fund, with more than 5 million
accredited members. Until 1987, INFONAVIT subsidized its mortgage loans at a
fixed annual interest rate of 42 and cost recovery levels dropped sharply
during the mid-1980s as inflation rates climbed. In 1987 INFONAVIT began to
index loan amounts and monthly payments to the minimum wage and thus increased
sharply cost recovery and slowed tne decline in the real value of its assets.
However, its low initial monthly mortgage payments, and the 20 year limit for
31 This is particularly important to note since the commercial banks and
pension funds are unwillint to lend to relatively poor non-salaried workers
which are presumed to be a higher credit risk.
A/ FONHAPO's wage-indexed mortgage instrument originally served as the model
for the ones later adopted by INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE. One of the key
features of FONHAPO's current mortgage instrument is that beneficiaries'
monthly payments include an explicit annual interest rate of 3-4Z above the
adjustment in the minimum wage.
l/ There is also a small housing program operated by the pension fund for
military personnel (POVIMI/ISSFAM).



- 6 -
loan repayment meant that I.7FONAVIT still subsidized its homebuyers for as
much as 30Z of the loan amount, thereby continuing to decapitalize and limit
its ability to respond to the needs of its contributors. FOVISSSTE went
through a similar adjustment, adopting a minimum-wage indexed mortgage
instrument in 1989. Consequently, FOVISSSTE's cost recovery has been
insufficient to avoid a decapitalization of its funds and demand for FOVISSSTE
loans -like INFONAVIT- has far outstrips its resources.
1.17      The need to address shortcomings in Mexico's compulsory pensi..n
system and housing funds has been a long-standing subject of the Bank's and
the Government's dialogue on financial and housing finance sector issues. In
February 1992 the Mexican Congress approved sweeping reforms to both the
compulsory pension system and the INFONAVIT housing fund. The new law, which
became effective in May 1992, requires employers to deposit 2 per cent of
employees' salaries into personal pension funds administered by commercial
banks, while at the same time to continue to make 5 per cent of salary
paymen'6s to a reformed INFONAVIT. The reformed pension system is expected to
accelerate overall financial sector development by channelling substantial
amounts of long-term funding (estimated at US$1 billion in 1993) to the
recently-reprivatized commercial banks. The reforms to INFONAVIT are just as
substantive. Under the new law INFONAVIT will be allowed to charge interest
of 4% in inflation-adjusted terms to those borrowing to buy their homes. In
addition, INFONAVIT will be required to dimension its loan amounts and home
size to the borrower's capacity to pay, to introduce transparency in the
assignment of home loans to workers, to give workers the right to choose the
type of house they purchase (new or used), and to assign housing construction
contracts through public auctions or competitive public bidding. The reforms
also establish targets to lower INFONAVIT's administrative costs, and will
allow the agency over time to become financially self sufficient. The
Government has recently annourced that it will soon make similar reforms to
FOVISSSTE.
Role of the Commercial Banks
1.18      Overview.  Mexico's commercial banking system has undergone
dramatic changes in structure and ownership over the past two decades. In the
late 19709, over 130 private and mixed ownership banks operated in Mexico.
The nationalization actions of 1982 led to a massive consolidation into the 18
full-service banks which exist today. In mid-1990, the Government announced
plans to fully reprivatize Mexico's banking system. The process actually
began in 1987 when the Government sold 34X of its ownership share back to the
private sector. By mid-1992, ownership of nearly all of the banks had been
zeturned to the private sector.
1.19      The commercial banking sector is highly concentrated, with three
banks (Banamex, Bancomer and Banca Serfin) accounting for about 60X of the
ay3tsm's total assets of some US$113 billion equivalent at mid-1991. The
reprivatization process included purging the loan portfolios of all of the
major banks and of most of the smaller ones of bad credits, and today the
asset quality of the banking system is good. To further strengthen bank
performance and management and to stimulate competition in the financial
sector, the Government has passed legislation that allows the formation of
financial groups under the ownership of a holding company comprised of banks,
brokerage firms, leasing companies, insurance agencies and others.



- 7 -
Regulations regarding the opening of branches have also been liberalized
recently to encourage the development of retail/consumer banking throughout
the country. Furthermore, as part of the North American Free Trade Agreement
negotiations, the Government is discussing foreign bank entry into the Mexican
market.
1.20      Until 1989, commercial banks operated in a highly restrictive
environment, subject to interest rate controls and forced lending
requirements. In April of that year, as part of a plan to restructure and
liberalize the financial system and with World Bank support (para. 1.55), the
Government abolished all interest rate controls (except for low-income
farmers) and mandatory lending requirements for commercial banks.
1.21      The sharp rise of inflation during the 1980s to heights
unprecedented in Mexico led financial institutions to adopt lending and
deposit instruments suitable to a high inflation environment. Leery of
indexing mechanisms because of their possible impact on perpetuating
inflation, the Government opted to allow high nominal interest rates. Over
the past decade both inflation and real interest rates have fluctuated widely.
As a result, both lenders and borrowers have sought to avoid long-term loans
and the rRructure of both assets and liabilities of the banking system is very
short-tt  i. However, given the advances in liberalizing and restructuring the
financial sector and the ongoing success of the economic stabilization
efforts, commercial banks expect in the future to be able to extend the term
structure of their liabilities and thus to be in a better position to expand
their long-term lending.
1.22      Mortgage Lending.  Because of high nominal interest rates during
the 1980s, standard fixed payment mortgages, with high initial repayments,
became unaffordable to most homeborrowers. In 1984, the Central Bank
developed and authorized the use of a new "dual rate" mortgage instrument,
designed to make mortgage lending more attractive in an inflationary
environment. This "dual rate" mortgage allows banks to charge a market-
determined rate of interest, but ties the borrower's payments to adjustments
in the minimum wage, so that these payments remain in step with most
borrower's incomes.5  If, because of a difference between the adjustment in
the minimum wage and in the interest rate charged, the borrower's payments do
not cover the interest and principal due, then the difference is capitalized
and the loan term is extended. More information about this instrument iE
provided in paragraph 1.32.
1.23      During almost three decades prior to the late 1980., Central Bank
regulations required commercial banks to allocate a percentage of their total
lending (by 1989 it had reached 62) for "social interest" housing loans,
directed at families earning between 2 and 12 minimum wages. Regulations also
limited the rate of interest that could be charged on these mandatory housing
loans to a level well below the banking system's cost of funds. Furthermore,
regulations set a ceiling on the amount of interest that could be capitalized
6/ As this report dedcribes, commercial banks as well as public housing
finance agencies use mortgage instruments which link payments to the minimum
wage. The Government periodically revises the minimum wage, and therefore, it
act more as a wage index for unskilled labor than ar a rigid floor price.



- 8 -
on individual mortgage loans. As a result of these restrictions, commercial
banks were to forego substantial revenues on their mortgage portfolios and to
subsidize homebuyers, particularly during the mid-1980s when inflation rates
soared. The resulting revenue losses to the commercial banks were typically
offset by chaLging higher rates on that portion of bank lending that was not
regulated. In addition to these distortions, the lack of long-term funding
discouraged commercial banks from engaging voluntarily in moitgage lending.
1.24      In 198U, in the context of the first World Bank loan to FOVI (para.
1.53) the Central Bank amended its regulations on mandatory mortgage loans to
allow banks to charge an interest rate equal to the banking system's average
cost of funds and to abolish the limit on intereat capitalization. Further
reforms came in 1989, as part of the financial sector liberalization program,
supported by the Bank under a Financial Sector Adjustment loan (para. 1.55),
when the Government eliminated the banks' 62 mandatory lending requirement for
housing and all interest rate controls on mortgage loans made with their own
funds.
1.25      With the reforms of the 1989 liberalization program, and with
inflation and real interest rates continuing to fall, commercial banks have
dramatically increased mortgage lending with their own funds from US$452
million equivalent in 1989 to US$2,870 million equivalent in 1991 (Annex 2).
As a percentage of total outstanding bank loans, residential mortgages
equalled about 72 at end-1991. The quality of the bank's mortgage portfolios
is very good, as mortgage loan delincuencies (those past due by more than
three months) were less than 1Z of total bank mortgage loans at end-1991. On
mortgages financed with their own resources, commercial banks typically charze
a variable rate of interest equal to the banking system's average cost of term
funds, CPP ("Costo Porcentual Promedio de Captacion")21, plus 5-6Z, and an
upfront commission of 3 percentage points. Maturities vary significantly from
bank to bank depending on the type of tmortgage and the number of annual
payments. At the time of issue, loan maturities range between 3 to 15 years.
1.26      While bank lending for housing has increased recently, banks still
continue to limit their own mortgage financing mainly to wealthier homebuyers.
Only with support from FOVI are banks willing to make mortgage loans to lower
and moderate income households (those earning below 5 multiples of the minimum
wage). Bankers cite various reasons for not lending to lower income groups:
strong demand for mortgage credit at the upper-income levels where profit
margins are higher; unfamiliarity with low-income clients; higher relative
administrative costs associated with the smaller mortgage loans; and possible
higher default risks on such loans. The Government's strategy, and one of the
aims of the proposed project, is to induce the banks to increase lending to
creditworthy lower-Income homebuyers, through the provision of long-term
mortgage credit by FOVI and through the elimination of market impediments.
Measures the Government has taken or will be taking to accomplish this are
discussed in subsequent sections of this report.
7/ CPP is a monthly rate, calculated by the Central Bank and published in the
Government's official gazette ("Diario Oficial"). For April 1992 the
annualized CPP was 15.8X.



- 9 -
1.27      Currently the banks are supporting mainly new housing developments-
-residential homes, condominiums and apartment buildings--although regulations
permit them to finance the sale of existing homes, home improvements and urban
renewal. New housing projects are initiated mostly by private homebuilders
who construct and sell houses in the market at their own risks. Commercial
banks are partners in this process by providing construction financing, and
upon housing completion and sale, by providing mortgages to individual buyers.
The planning, construction and selling cycle normally takes about one and a
half years, generally carried out by one of the country's 100 or so largest
firms.
Role of FOVI
j.28      Overview.  FOVI was created in 1963 by the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit (SHCP) to channel federal funds from the Central Bank (Banco de
Mexico) to commercial banks to finance low-cost housing for beneficiaries
earning less than 12 minimum salaries. In 1991, FOVI provided financing of
about US$353 million equivalent, or 11% of total commercial banks' lending for
housing (Annex 2). FOVI is the executing agency for Loan 2947-ME (para. 1.53)
and would perform this function for the proposed project. A summary of FOVI's
lending procedures and policies, and recent experience is provided below, with
detailed information presented in Annex 3.
1.29      FOVI Procedures and Housina Types.  FOVI-financed projects are
initiated by private homebuilders who construct and sell new homes at their
own risk. Commercial banks typically supply the construction financing, at
market interest rates. FOVI then provides financing to commercial banks for
individual mortgage credits to allow qualified buyers to purchase the
completed homes from the builders. Developers nationwide associate themselves
with commercial banks to compete for access to FOVI funds through a public
auction system described in para. 1.31. The commercial banks are responsible
for loan approval to new homebuyers, for collecting the borrower's
downpayments (which generally range from 10-20X of the loaned amount,
depending on the FOVI housing type) and monthly payments, and for eventually
repaying FOVI. The banks bear the full default risk on the FOVI loans, and
must repay FOVI regardless of the payment performance of the final borrower.
1.30      FOVI regulations prescribe the types and prices of houses eligible
for FOVI financing. The lowest-priced FOVI housing (Type A) must be sold for
no greater than 100 multiples of the monthly minimum wage (MMW), or the
equivalent of US$13,100 (at April 1992 prices). FOVI also finances Type B1
houses with a sales price of between 101 MMW and 130 MW (US$17,000
equivalent), and Type B2 houses with a sales price of between 131 MW and 160
MMW (US$20,960 equivalent).8' While FOVI rules permit the financing of
8/ As the Government's recent policy has been to increase the minimum wage
only once annually (usually at the end of the year), FOVI introduced in 1991 a
mechanism to adjust the maximum sales price oi the houses It finances (in
terms of MMWs) throughout the year, in line with the anticipated inflation
rate for that year, to compensate for the lag between inflation and the
adjustment in the minimum wage. This mechanism, known as "valores
sustitutos", can be illustrated as follows. Assuming that inflation is
(continued...)



- 10 -
houses costing up to 216 MHWs (US$28,000), in practice FOVI limits its
financing to houses with a maximum price of 160 MMWs. At current construction
costs, the size of the FOVI-financed houses vary from 33 m2 (Type A) to 65 m2
(Type B2). Traditionally, FOVI-financed houses have been newly-built owner-
occupied or rental units with a kitchen, bath and 1-3 bedrooms. However,
houses of this type are generally too expensive for the majority of the FOVI
target population or do not suit their housing needs. Thus, with the support
of the Bank, in mid-1991 FOVI revised its regulations substantially to finance
"non-traditional" housing solutions which include urbanized lots, unfinished
dwellings, home improvements, rental units with an option to buy, and used
housing.
1.31      FOVI Funds Auction.  Until 1989 the high demand for FOVI funds made
equitable allocation difficult. The public auctions, begun in July 1989,
solved the problem by simply allocating long-term financing to the highest
bidder. This auction system has proven to be an efficient and transparent
mechanisms for assigning FOVI funds. By awarding funds on a competitive
basis, the FOVI auction rewards those developers who are most active in the
mortgage markets and most efficient, and thus can bid more for funds. It also
allows FOVI to capture any economic benefits (rents) that are derived from its
mortgage financing (which carries with it a preferential interest rate; see
para. 1.32), as the developers are likely to include any premium paid for the
FOVI loans in the sales price of the house. Through December 1991, FOVI has
held 22 nationwide credit auctions to provide long-term resources to finance a
total of about 124,130 houses (of which 851 were for Types A and B1 houses,
and the remaining 15Z for Type B2 houses). So far more than 500 developers,
represented by 17 different banks, have participated in the FOVI auctions.
During 1989, the auction's first year, the average premium paid by developers
to FOVI (defined as the percentage of expected total funding required) was 82.
During 1990 and 1991, the premiums paid by developers to FOVI declined to an
average of 3.01 and 1.0Z, respectively. FOVI attributes this decline to the
fact that banks have been more willing to lend their own resources for housing
in recent years, particularly at the upper-income end of the market, where
profit margins are higher, and thus there has been less demand for FOVI funds.
Also, FOVI's recent auctions have offered funds mainly for low-cost (Type A)
housing, which developers and banks have had less interest in producing
because of the strong demand for more expensive houses and a reluctance to
enter this segment of the market (para. 1.26). Experience with FOVI's auction
system will be reviewed during the annual and mid-term project implementation
reviews (para. 2.15).
1.32      FOVI Mortgage Instrument and Lending Terms.  The Central Bank's
"dual rate" mortgage instrument of 1984 'para. 1.21), now commonly known as
the "FOVI mortgage", works as follows. The commercial bank which administers
the FOVI loan offers mortgage financing to the homebuyer at a variable
8'(... continued)
projected to equal 121 for a given year, a FOVI Type A house will start the
year with a maximum sales price of 100 MMWs but its maximum sales price will
be increased monthly by 0.91, and will reach 112 MMWs by December of that
year. At that time, wher the minimum wage is adjusted to help offset the
impact of inflation, the maximum sales price of a Type A house falls back to
100 HMIW.



- 11 -
interest rate equal to CPP. The loan amount is linked to the homebuyer's
household income.!' The homebuyer's initial monthly payment is established
as a percentage of the total loan amount; subsequent monthly payments are
adjusted in parallel with increases in the minimum wage.'°1 If adjusted
monthly payments are not sufficient to cover the accrued interest, the
borrower is granted additional credit for the difference. In other words, the
difference is capitalized. Initially, there is no set period for repaying the
loan, as the loan term must be eventually extended to allow payment of the
capitalized interest. However, under current regulations, FOVI gives both the
lender and the borrower a guarantee that should the life of the loan exceed 20
years FOVI will assume the outstanding balance. The commercial bank which
administers the FOVI loan is free to charge the homebuyer a fixed up-front fee
that is market determined (it has averaged about 3Z of the loaned amount) and
currently earns an annual spread of between about 2-3Z of the outstanding loan
balance (i.e. it repays FOVI at an annual rate of interest equal to CPP minus
2-3Z). While this has been enough to ensure that FOVI's operation is self-
financing (para. 1.34), the spreads have not been high enough to encourage
active commercial bank lending for low-cost houaing. To address this issue,
in connection with the proposed project, FOVI has modified its lending
regulations to allow commercial banks, at their discretion, to charge
borrowers monthly commissions on FOVI loans to fully cover higher
administration costs and credit risks associated with low-cost housing
financing. This modification would make FOVI financing more attractive to
banks and would move the final borrowers' effective interest rates to market
levels.
1.33      Organization of FOVI.  FOVI is a trust fund, or "fideicomison,
within the Central Bank. It is an efficient and highly regarded organization,
with a small staff of about 100 employees all based in Mexico City. Its
management and staff are well-qualified, remunerated and motivated. While
FOVI maintains separate offices and staff, it relies on the Central Bank for
administrative and technical support. FOVI staff review technical aspects of
developers' projects, monitor project execution and administer the funds
auctioning system. All lending operations require approval of FOVI's Board of
Directors, which has representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP) and SEDUE as well as the Central Bank. Since 1990, FOVI has
shown leadership ink encouraging state and local governments to ease
9/   For example, for a FOVI Type A house with a sales price of 100 MMWs, the
starting monthly payment expressed as a percentage of the loan amount is 0.91.
Under the assumption that a homebuyer can afford to pay 25Z of income for
mortgage debt service, the homebuyer receiving FOVI financing would earn about
3.2 MWs.
10/ Because in recent years adjustments in the minimum wage have fallen
short of the inflaiAon rate (see para. 1.46), and in an effort to ensure that
the loan's term does not exceed 20 years, FOVI's current lending policies
specify that at five year intervals followirg loan initiation the monchly
payments for its housing loans are increased by three percentage points more
than the increase in the minimum wage. For example, a 10Z increase in the
minimum wage at the beginning of the 5th, 10th and 15th years of these loans
would cause a 13Z increase, in terms of minimum wages, in the monthly payments
in those years.



- 12 -
regulations and to lower housing costs (paras. 1.38-1.39). In relation to
these responsibilities and to those to be assumed under the proposed project,
FOVI has begun to upgrade and further expand its well-established analytical
and computer systems (para. 2.13). FOVI also plays a key role in housing
sector policy development and coordination, as its Director General serves on
technical committees overseeing the operations of INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE and
FONHAPO.
1.34      FOVI's Financial Condition.  FOVI's financial structure is simple
and its operations have been designed to minimize any credit, interest rate or
maturity risks. As of end-1991, about 99% of FOVI's total assets of Mex$4,058
billion (US$1,330 million equivalent) represented loans to commercial banks,
while the remaining 1% was held in government securities and other assets.
FOVI's assets are supported mainly by loans from the Central Bank. At end-
1991, FOVI's outstanding debt to the Central Bank amounted to Mex$3,238
billion (US$1,062 million equivalent), o1. equivalent to 80% of total assets.
(Of this amount, Mex$800 million corresponds to funds transfers made to FOVI
under Loan 2947-ME.) The remainder of FOVI's funding comes from federal
budgetary transfers and retained earnings. On its domestic borrowings FOVI
pays an interest rate equal to the Government's Treasury bill rate (CETES),
except for loans from the Central Bank when the rate is based on the Central
Bank's borrowing costs. Although FOVI is mandated to provide mortgage credit
at preferential terms to lower income households, its policy is to maintain a
self-financing operation by relending its resources at a rate above its
funding costs and by obtaining premiums in its funds auctions. In both 1990
and 1991, FOVI's had positive net incomes of US$67 million and US$63 million,
respectively. FOVI's loan portfolio is fully current and payments due from
the banks are closely monitored by both FOVI and the Central Bank. Annex 4
contains financial results for FOVI dur.ing the period 1989-91 and financial
projections for 1992-96. Future demand estimates underpinning the proposed
project were based on POVI's recent lending results and financial projections
provided to the Bank. The projections show that over the next five years FOVI
expects to finance about 32,000 housing units annually, at a yearly investment
cost of US$400 million equivalent, which is reasonable.
1.35      Because FOVI provides banks (and final borrowers) a guarantee that
if the terms of its loans exceed 20 years it will cover the outstanding
balance (para. 1.32), FOVI incurs a contingent liability risk which, under its
current mortgage scheme, depends on movements in interest rates and in the
minimum wage. However, the contingent liability risk for FOVI's existing loan
portfolio, based on conservative assumptions about future interest rates and
minimum wage adjustments, is small.-L1 Moreover, as part of the proposed
project, FOVI won-ld carry out a study to develop a new index to adjust monthly
mortgage payments (para. 2.8). The index would be based on market wages
instead of the minimum wage. The change in the index should further reduce
the likelihood of FOVI's guarantee becoming effective.
11/ Based on the assumptions currently used by FOVI (62 real interest rate
and 11 annual increase in the minimum wage), the maturity period for loans
extended during the period 1988-91 (which ranged initially between 10-12
years) would not exceed 20 years, and thus FOVI would not have to exercise its
guarantee. FOVI loans made before 1988 were subject to different interest
rate and interest capitalization limits discussed in para. 1.24.



- 13 -
E. Sector Issues
1.36      Overregulation of HousinR.  Many regulations and requirements
associated with home building and developments are cumbersome and non-
transparent and add unnecessary costs to housing. Regulatory burdens on
construction are reflected in over fifty different licenses, permits and
service charges issued by local governments, banks and notaries to builders.
States and municipalities also charge assorted local taxes and for registering
mortgages and deeds, and for transferring properties. Unnecessarily high
building standards for water and electricity utility connections, excessively
large minimum lot size and oversized roads, and arbitrary development costs
such as donated land or community facilities also drive up housing costs.
Furthermore, builders and homebuyers incur other unnecessary indirect costs,
as local governments are often slow in processing and approving development
plans, construction licenses and permits. In addition, while state and local
governments frequently grant fee exemptions and speed up permit approvals for
the public housing agencies, the private sector builders and financiers,
unable to obtain such exemptions and waivers of regulatory requirements, find
themselves frequently at a competitive disadvantage in the low-cost housing
market.
1.37      As state and local governments promulgate and enforce the majority
of regulations governing housing construction and development, the national
government has only limited powers to reduce regulatory costs. Nevertheless,
both the previous and the current Administrations have launched important
initiatives to lower regulatory barriers. For the past five years, SEDUE has
assisted municipalities throughout the country to establish the "ventanilla
unica", a single municipal office responeible for reviewing and approving
developer's housing projects, to simplify the process of obtaining
construction permits and licenses. To date, about 40 cities have set up a
"ventanilla unica" and more are expected to do so in the future.  In 1988
SEDUE also reached agreement with the National College of Notaries to
standardize and to reduce the fees charged for searching and conveying
property titles.  While implementation of this agreement could significantly
lower regulatory costs, as notary fees can add as much as 10% to home purchase
costs (generally payable at the time the house is purchased), it has yet to be
accepted on a state-to-state basis by the local "colleges of notaries" who
have final jurisdiction. Under the project, both the Government and FOVI will
continue to encourage state and municipalities to adopt the terms of the
national agreement as stated in the Government's sector policy declaration
(para. 2.6).
1.38      Since 1990 FOVI has also been active in identifying key regulatory
bottlenecks at the state and local levels, and in designing mechanisms and
incentives to remove or reduce those bottlenecks. To encourage states to
reform inappropriate standards and regulations, FOVI has begun signing
agreements with states which set out specific targets for reasonable building
standards, time limits for approving permits and licenses, and a schedule to
lower overall bureaucratic costs. These agreements also express the state's
intention to study and consider the gradual liberalization of rent controls,
if such controls exist, as a means of stimulating private investment in rental
housing. While the FOVI deregulation agreements are not legally binding, in
practice they carry considerable weight as they are cosigned by the Minister
of Finance and Public Credit, the state's governor and FOVI's Director



- 14 -
General. As of May 1992, FOVI had signed agreements with 11 states and was
negotiating agreements with ths remaining 20 states and the Federal District.
As part of the proposed project, FOVI will intensify its efforts to sign
agreements with all of the states (para. 2.4). FOVI's progress in this regard
will be monitored through annual project implementation reviews (para. 2.15).
A model cf the agreement FOVI is signing with the state governors as well as a
list of the signature status of each state are provided in Annex 5. The
President of the Republic has acknowledged the importance of FOVI's
deregulation efforts by granting an annual award, beginning January 1992, to
the state that has advanced the most in creating a favorable regulatory
environment for home building.
1.39      In 1991, FOVI conducted a survey of developers to estimate the
direct costs of regulation related to the construction and sale of FOVI-backed
housing projects.  This survey, which collected results from 37 communiti   4n
21 of the 32 Mexican states, showed that regulatory costs paid by developers
and homebuyers as a proportion of total housing costs varied widely among the
states, ranging from a high of 23Z to a low of 5Z (Annex 6). On average,
regulatory costs on the FOVI-backed projects equalled almost 12% of housing
costs.'21 The 1991 survey also collected information about indirect measures
of bureaucratic costs (i.e., local building codes, minimum lot sizes, land
donation requests and permit approval periods) which varied considerably from
municipality-to-municipality, and from state-to-state. Under the proposed
Bank-financed project, FOVI will continue to conduct the regulatory cost
surveys and will compile and publish the results as a means to encourage state
and local governments to reduce regulatory burdens for housing. The survey
results will also be used, under the project, to help monitor the deregulatory
progress on a state-by-state basis (para. 2.17).
1.40      Shortage of Urbanized Land.  A scarcity of reasonably-priced
urbanized land is constraining the production of affordable housing in Mexico.
Urban land prices are unnecessarily high for a number of reasons. First, many
Mexican cities are surrounded by elidoa31 properties which have ceased to
function as farms, but could not be legally converting to urban use without a
lengthy and unwieldy expropriation process. Past SEDUE efforts to carry out
massive expropriations of eiido lands have been only partially successful due
to political resistance from powerful agricultural groups and to a lack of
budgetary funds to finance the expropriations. Second, in cities with a
successful record of expropriation of eiido lands, local governments have
12/   The Bank and FOVI agree that caution needs to be followed in analyzing
the initial survey results due to the relatively small sample size and the
possible misinterpretation of the survey questions by participating
homebuilders. At appraisal, FOVI discussed with the Bank its action plan to
improve the coverage and quality of the information it cclects through the
surveys. This plan, which is deemed satisfactory, is summarized in Annex 6.
13/ The word ejido has a double meaning. First it means the land itself and
originally it referred to land surrounding towns (from the Latin "exitus").
Secondly, in the modern Mexican legal system, eiido is the corporation, formed
by peasants, which "owns" the land under certain important limitations on land
usage and sales regarding such "ownership'.



- 15 -
housing, but instead held them unused.>1 Third, local governments have
generally imposed low recurrent taxes on land and property holdings and
relatively high taxes on property and land sales, which discourage private
owners from selling developeable land. Fourth, due mainly to recent
constraints on public expenditures, neither the national nor local governments
have yet established effectiva programs for financing the provision of primary
infrastructure on lands suitable for housing development.
1.41      The Federal Government has recently initiated or proposed a number
of measures to address the above constraints. In January 1992 the Mexican
Congress approved sweeping legislation which grants ejidos ownership control
over their lands. Shortly thereafter, in February 1992, the Congress passed
new legislation modifying the Agrarian Law ("Ley Agraria") in order to
establish the rules for transferring eiido lands to private owners. While the
principal aim of these reforms is to help modernize Mexico's agricultural
sector, they would also liberalize the urban land market by allowing ejidos to
sell their properties to private developers for housing and other purposes.
1.42      With the passage of the F ido reforms, the national and local
governments will likely no longer need to expropriate lands and to create new
territorial reserves in the future. Nevertheless, the issue of what to do
with the existing territorial reserves remains. As a way to stimulata state
and local governments to sell their existing territorial reserves, FOVI has
included in its deregulation agreements with the states (para. 1.38) a clause
conveying the state's intention to sell its territorial reserves, if such
reserves exist, to private developers at market prices.
1.43      In 1990, the Government also introduced fiscal reform requiring
municipalities to reduce gradually their property transfer taxes (from 101 in
1990 to 2Z in 1994), while providing federal funds to make up for lost income
to the municipalities that comply. At the same time, the Government is urging
local governments to raise property taxes over the longer run to cover revenue
shortfalls arising from the reduction in the property transfer taxes. In the
future, the Government intends to continue instituting these and similar
reforms.
1.44      Additionally, the Government (through its infrastructure
development bank, BANOBRAS) is developing self-financing programs to support
the installation of primary infrastructure (i.e. water and sewerage networks)
for housing in urban centers. Bank financing under Loan 3271-ME (Water Sector
Project) and possible future operations with BANOBRAS would be available for
this purpose. In connection with the proposed project, the Government has
stated in its Housing Sector Policy Declaration (para. 2.6) its intention to
continue to address land market and infrastructure issues.
14/ During the 1984-91 period, SEDUE assisted local governments in creating
about 22,370 hectares of territorial reserves in 26 separate states. Of this
total, only 5,270 hectares were developed and sold to the private sector,
leaving a balance of 17,100 hectares of territorial reserves still in the
hands of local governments at end 1991. SEDUE calculates that about 260,000
new units could be constructed on these existing territorial reserves, meeting
the housing needs of more than a million people.



- 16 -
1.45      Segmentation and Inefficiencies of the HousinR Finance Programs.
In the past, Mexico's housing finance programs were overly segmented and
inefficient. Problems were particularly acute in the quasi-public housing
programs of the two payroll funds (INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE), whose
administrative costs have been excessive, subsidies have been large and poorly
targeted, beneficiary selection criteria has been non-transparent, and home
building practices have led to unnecessarily high construction costs. The
Government's recent reforms have adequately addressed these problems for
INFONAVIT (para. 1.17). In its Housing Sector Policy Declaration (para. 2.6)
the Government has expressed its commitment to carry out similar reforms in
FOVISSSTE.
1.46      At present, two related issues remain.  First, FOVI (as well as the
payroll funds and FONHAPO) continues to use a mortgage instrument which links
homebuyer repayments (and in the case of FONHAPO and the payroll funds, the
loan amounts and interest rates charged) to the official minimum wage which
has been losing its correlation to real market wagese.L5 If future minimum
wage adjustments continue to lag inflation, these mortgage instruments could
produce large and unintended subsidies, thereby reducing the public sector's
ability to respond adequately to future housing finance needs. Since, at
present Mexico has no other reliable wage index that could be used to adjust
morsgage payments, under the proposed project, the Central Bank and FOVI have
agreed to develop a new, improved index for adjusting payments on the FOVI
mortgages (para. 2.8).
1.47      The second issue involves the possible development of a secondary
mortgage market which could serve to better integrate the private housing
finance system with the rest of the financial markets. Such a secondary
market would enable primary mortgage lenders like commercial banks to increase
both the liquidity of their mortgage portfolios and their resources for
housing by packaging or securitizing the mortgages they originate and selling
them to longer term investors such as pension funds and insurance companies.
While Central Bank and other government officials are generally interested in
supporting the development of a secondary mortgage market, they are also
concerned about the possible economic policy and regulatory implications of
such a market. Therefore, under the proposed project, the Government with
Bank assistance would prepare a study on the policy options for and
implications of the creation of a secondary mortgage market (para. 2.8).
1.48      Lack of Housina Sector Information.  A competitive housing market
requires that narket actors have access to relevant, timely, and reliable
information. At present, neither the Government, nor private firms collect
significant information about housing market conditions in Mexico. Noreover,
what information is available is often inaccurate, incomplete, or
inconsistent. The lack of data seriously constrains the further development
of Mexico's housing finance and production sectors both in terms of efficiency
and effectiveness. Under the proposed project, the Government would begin to
15/   In the past few years, increases in the minimum wage have fallen short
of inflation. For example, in 1990 and 1991, when the rate of inflation (as
measured by changes in the Consumer Price Index) equalled 30S and 16%,
respectively, the increases in the minimum wage amounted to only 18S and 12S,
respectively.



- 17 -
address this issues by inter alia preparing a study of the key information
needs of housing market participants and developing a plan to induce the
private sector to produce this information on self-financing basis, to help
improve the decisions of key market participants (para. 2.8).
F. Government's Strategy for the Housing Sector
1.49      Since the early 1980s, the Government has deliberately sought to
expand rapidly the supply of affordable housing. Initial efforts focused on
the public sector housing programs and included: (i) promoting low-cost
housing solutions; (ii) increasing allocations to, and improving the cost
recovery of mortgage finance; and (iii) creating FONRAPO to attend
specifically to the housing needs of the poor. During the mid-1980s, as
economic conditions in Mexico deteriorated and the public housing programs
assumed greater relative importance due to the lack of private savings for
housing, the Government increased budget allocations to both FOVI and FONHAPO
and approved the use of wage-based mortgage instruments in order to further
improve cost recovery on mortgage finance.
1.50      The Government's 1987 Housing Plan, and its 1988 Housing Policy
Statement, provided to the Bank in connection with the first FOVI loan (para.
1.53), set out a strategy of (i) further improving cost recovery on housing
finance and better targeting subsidies to the most needy; (ii) promoting
savings from households and institutions for housing; (iii) encouraging
construction of investor-owned rental properties; and (iv) streamlining and
fortifying the operations and administration of the housing finance programs.
The Government also expressed its intention to promote a better balance
between the publLc housing finance programs and those offered by commercial
banks, and to monitor overlaps or inconsistencies among the public housing
finance agencies.
1.51      The 1989 liberalization of the financial system, and the
reprivatization of the commercial banks beginning in 1990, are producing an
efficient financial sector and a competitively-priced source of funds for
investment. Given their expected impact on housing finance and production,
the Government's previous housing policy statements have become outdated.
Therefore, during the preparation of the proposed project, the Government has
reformulated its strategy for the housing sector. The new strategy (para.
2.6), whose implementation has already been initiated and will be further
supported by the proposed Bank-financed project, seeks to redefine the role of
the public sector to enable the private sector to expand its investment in
housing. Under this strategy, the Government aims to: (i) induce state and
local governments to lessen and make more transparent the legal and regulatory
requirements applied to the development, construction and transfer of housing;
(ii) encourage commercial banks to participate actively in the financing of
lower and moderate-income housing, using their own resources as well as those
provided by FOVI; (iii) help integrate the housing finance programs and
markets with the rest of the financial system; (iv) encourage public housing
programs to improve their efficiency and cost recovery, inter alia by
expanding the recent reforms of INFONAVIT to FOVISSSTE; (v) concentrate the
financing of the public housing programs on the lowest income segment of the
market; (vi) establish a legal framework, supported by recent modifications to
the eiido provisions in the Constitution, which would permit the expansion and
liberalization of the urban land market, and would provide for more orderly



- 18 -
urban development; (vi) stimulate increased private investment in rental
housing by encouraging state governments to eliminate rent controls; and (vii)
improve the reliability and consistency of housing sector information. Final
agreement on this strategy, which is presented in the Government's Sector
Policy Declaration (para. 2.6), was reached at negotiations.
G. Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.52      Bank lending to support Mexico's housing sector began in 1985 with
Loan 2612-ME (US$150 million) which expanded public housing investment for the
poorest and largest segment of the population and strengthened FONHAPO during
its start-up phase. Project conditionality, and the dialogue established with
the Bank led roNHAPo to introduce a wage-indexed mortgage instrument which
brought significant improvements in cost recovery and a better targeting of
its subsidies (para. 1.14). A study of the housing finance system, carried
out under the project, focused Government attention on numerous sector-wide
issues such as cost recovery and the need to better coordinate public housing
pro"rams and policies, and provided the analytical basi. ior further sector
reform and continued Bank support. Loan 2612-ME was fully disbursed in mid-
1990, about two years ahead of schedule. A Project Completion Report for Loan
2612-ME, issued in mid-1991, astributes the successful execution of the
project inter alia to: (i) effective credit targeting to groups which
represent low-income beneficiaries; (ii) FONHAPO's provision of technical
assistance to subborrowers and beneficiaries in all phases of the housing
development, construction and repayment cycle; and (iii) the application of
systematic operating rules, including transparent public works procurement
procedures. Lessons learned from this project as well as from other Bank-
financed hous-t projects in Mexico hae :een incorporated in the design of
the proposed    Ject and in the Bank's current sector strategy presented in
paras. 1.  -' - ' 7 J
1.53      In 1988 the Bank approved the Housing Finance Project (Loan 2947-
ME; US$300 million), which channelled funde through FOVI to commercial banks
for the financing of low- and moderate-cost housing. The loan supported
regulatory reforms that allowed banks to achieve full cost recovery on their
mortgage lending (para. 1.23). It also financed a pilot program to construct
and sell lcwer cost housing units, which demonstrated that the private sector
can only produce such houses, if local governments provide relief from certain
regulatory requirements and speed up permit approvals. Under the project, the
Central Bank also completed a study an saving mobilization for housing.  The
study recommended the development of a more robust retail/consumer financial
network in Mexico which would gather depoaits from and offer loans to
individuals for housing and other purposes. The Government has taken
important steps in that direction by changing regulations to facilitate the
opening of bank branches and the creation of new financial institutions such
as credit unions (para. 1.19). Another project study reviewed ways to
stimulate private investment in rental housing anlI reaffirmed the desirability
of having local governments abolish rent control laws. FOVI has acted on this
recommendation by including in its agreements with state governors the
intention by the state to consider the elimination of rent controls (para.
1.38). The first loan to benefit FOVI was fully disbursed in early 1992,
nearly two years ahead of the appraisal estimate.



- 19 -
1.54      In 1989, the Bank approved the Second Low-Income Housing Loan
(3140-ME; US$350 million) for FONHAPO which aims to further improve the
agency's cost recovery and the targeting of its financing and subsidies to the
most needy. The project also souports experimental programs in land tenure
regularization and urban development in fast-growing cities. Additionally,
the project is helping FONEAPO to streamline its lending procedures and to
strengthen and decentralize its institutional capacity. Furthermore, project-
related studies on the provision of banking services in poor neighborhoods, on
patterns of squatter settlements, and on building codes and administrative
procedures related to the construction and processing of low-income housing
have provided useful input in the design of the proposed project. Overall
execution of Loan 3140-ME is proceeding smoothly, with nearly 50Z of the loan
amount disbursed as of May 1992.
1.55      The Bank has also helped to reform Mexico's overall financial
sector, which as mentioned earlier had a direct bearing on the housing sector
(para. 1.20). In April 1989, under actions supported by a Bank-financed
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), the Government eliminated interest
rate controls and mandatory lending requirements for banks and merged several
trust funds that financed industrial projects into one of the Government's
oevelopment banks. The FSAL also provided the basis for the Bank and the
Government to agree on plans of actions for rationalizing and strengthening
Mexico's development banking system. Furthermore, in 1990 the Bank prepared a
study of Mexico's contractual savings system, and many of the study's
recommendations were implemented, as part of the February 1992 reforms to
Mexico's compulsory pension and housing funds (para. 1.17).
H. Bank Sector Support Strategv and Rationale for Involvement
1.56      The Bank's lending strategy for Mexico's housing sector reflects
the experience gained both in Mexico and worldwide. In Mexico, as in many
other countries, the Bank initially concentrated on the provision of low-cost
housing, on reducing subsidies, and on strengthening the institutional
capacity of the Government's low-income housing agency, FONHAPO (para. 1.52).
The study of the overall housing finance system, carried out under the first
FONHAPO project sparked the Bank-Government dialogue on subsequent sector-wide
issues. Beginning in 1988 the Bank broadened its strategy to include reforms
for the housing finance system. Under the first loan to FOVI (para. 1.53),
the Bank supported regulatory changes which allowed commercial banks to
achieve full cost recovery on their mortgage lending. This was seen as an
important first step to get banks to lend for housing voluntarily. Besides
mobilizing additional resources for housing, this strategy helped ease the
integration of the housing finance system with the rest of the financial
markets.
1.57      The present Bank strategy has been widened once more to embrace
sector-wide concerns and policies which link the performance of the housing
sector to the overall economy. Such a strategy is particularly relevant in
the context of the Mexican economy which has recently undergone extensive
reforms aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth. Given the shortage of
resources for public investments in housing, both the Bank and the Mexican
Government agree that government's financing for housing may be less important
than government's role in defining a conducive regulatory framework, and
pricing and other policies affecting the financial and housing finance



- 20 -
sectors. Therefore. the focus of the Bank's current stratezv is to assist the
Government in creating a more supportive environment in which the private
sectvr can plav an expanded role in solving the country's housina plroblems.
This strategy would concentrate on helping to: (i) establish a supportive
legal and regulatory framework; (ii) rationalize public sector intervention in
housing activities, to facilitate the operation of market-based housing
finance institutions; (iii) ensure that key inputs to the housing production
process are adequately supplied, particularly land, infrastructure and
financing; and (iv) provide adequate information so that policy makers and
market participants can make sound decisions. Because FOVI has taken the lead
in fostering deregulation in the housing sector (para. 1.38), and in
influencing both private developers and banks through the provision of
mortgage finance, FOVI is viewed as the Government's financial intermediary
most suited to promote key reforms contemplated for the housing sector.
1.58      In parallel with the Bank strategy to support broad sector reforms
through FOVI, it is important to assist the Government in addressing issues
related to Doverty alleviation. through a well-targeted low-income housing
program. As FONHAPO's programs and operations are considered efficient and
effective, the Bank would continue to support it. A possible future operation
could focus on improvements in FONHAPO's programs and policies to better reach
the very poor, on cost recovery and the sharper targeting of its financing and
subsidies, putting particular emphasis on the need for FONHAPO to avoid
operating in segments of the market where private institutions could provide
financing at market or less preferential terms.
1.59      Bank support, under the proposed project, for a line of credit
(POVI) is justified on the basis that during the next several years even after
the commercial banks have become fully privatized they are likely to continue
to concentrate their mortgage lending on the upper- and middle-income segments
of the market, which are more profitable and perceived to be less risky, and
will be reluctant to lend much for low-income housing. Thus, there is a need
for FOVI resources, which will serve to expand the supply of financing for
lower-priced houses, and help to attract the commercial banks to this segment
of the market, thereby promoting their understanding, interest and involvement
in it. Continued Bank involvement in the sector is particularly important at
this time, as the momentum for deregulation and reform within Mexico is strong
while the need to develop a more effective market-based housing finance
system, which can reach a wider segment of the population, is growing.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.1       The project was identified in February 1991, during the supervision
of Loan 2947-ME, and was appraised in January/February 1992. Negotiations
were held in Washington during May 1992, with the Mexican team comprised of
representatives of BANOBRAS, the Central Bank, FOVI, and SHCP.
B. Proiect Objectives
2.2       In addition to helping to expand the supply of mortgage finance for
low-cost housing to be built by private developers, the project's main



- 21 -
objectives are to support the Government in (i) removing regulatory barriers
in order to lower housing costs and to encourage private builders and
financiers to expand investment in housing, especially at the lower income end
of the market; (ii) broadening and deepening the housing policy dialogue to
include inter alia the expan-ion and liberalization of the urban land market,
the cost recovery and operat.onal performance of the quasi-public pension
funds' housing progra is, and the further integration of the housing finance
market with the overall financial system; (iii) improving FOVI's mortgage
instrument and its onlending mechanism so as to stimulate commercial bank
interest in lending for low-cost housing; and (iv) improving information on
the housing market.
C. Proiect DescriDtion
2.3       To achieve the above-mentioned objectives, the project would
include four broad components supporting: (a) regulatory reform; (b) housing
sector policy; (c) POVI's credit line; and (d) special studies. A description
of these components is provided below. IBRD financing would only be provided
for component (c).
(a)  Reaulatory Reform ComDonent
2.4       To achieve a broad-based and effective deregulation of the housing
sector, the national government has developed and begun implementation of
several mechanisms designed to induce state and local governments to reduce
their regulatory burdens (paras. 1.38 and 1.39). These mechanisms are based
on the 2rincivle that market forces reinforced by Public pressures created
nrimarily through the dissemination of information to key housint market
varticiDants (i.e.. homebuilders. sui,nliers. homebuvers. etc.) is the most
viable way to achieve a deep and lasting deregulation. Therefore, in
connection with the proposed project, agreement was reached at negotiations
that FOVI would continue:
(i)   to use exclusively its auction system to assign mortgage
financing, as this system which awards funds to the highest
bidders tends to favor those states and municipalities with
the lowest regulatory burdens by allowing developers and
mortgage lenders to compete better for FOVI funds to finance
and build housing; conversely, those jurisdictions with the
higher regulatory burdens would be penalized, as private
builders and lenders find it move difficult and expensive to
build houses there (para. 3.1 (b)(i)). Failure on the part
of FOVI to continue to use its auction system would be an
event of default under the proposed project (para. 3.1
(a)(i));
(ii) to promote, sign, and publish agreements which identify
regulatory bottlenecks, and set out specific targets and a
schedule for lowering regulatory costs, with at least 702 (22
out of 32) of the states, by not later than June 30, 1994
(para. 3.1 (b)(ii)); and
(iii) to carry out annual nationwide surveys of regulatory costs
for FOVI-financed projectos and to publish the results



- 22 -
beginning in 1993 by not later than March 31 of each year, in
a form satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.1 (b)(iii)).
2.5       The above-mentioned mechanisms would be further supported by
project conditionality which would require the Bank and the Government, as
part of the mid-term revic-i: (a) to evaluate the effectiveness of the FOVI
fund auction as a mechanism to induce states to lower regulatory burdens; and
(b)- should this mechanism be found not to produce the results expected, the
Government would agree to take additional remedial action, satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 2.18).
(b) Housing Sector Policy Component
2.6       The Bank and the Government have maintained a close and active
policy dialogue on housing sector issues which has helped over time to
identify and to give impetus to important sector reforms. During the past
year, as the proposed project was being prepared, the Government took measures
to address key issues most of which the Bank and the Government had previously
identified as impeding sector development. The measures included inter alia:
(i) the Constitutional amendment to overhaul the ejido system which will
add4ress urban land market constraints (para. 1.41); (ii) the new legislation
that reforms INFONAVIT (para. 1.17); (iii) the FOVI policy modifications which
permit it to finance "non-traditional" housing solutions, in order to reach
lower income households (para. 1.30); and (iv) changes to FOVI's lending
regulations which allow commercial banks to charge market-determined
commissions on FOVI loans, thus making this type of lending more attractive to
such banks (para. 1.32). In connection with the proposed project, the
Government provided the Bank with a satisfactory Housing Sector Policy
Declaration which presents the Government's medium-term strategy for the
sector and specific actions to be taken to address important remaining housing
sector issues. The Sector Policy Declaration is summarized in para. 1.51 and
contained in Annex 7. During the annual and mid-term project reviews (para.
2.15), the Bank and the Government would jointly evaluate the progress made in
implementing the Policy Declaration, paying particular attention to: (a)
sector deregulation; (b) the expansion and liberalization of the urban land
market; (c) FOVI measures to channel an increasing share of its financing to
lower income households, to induce banks and developers to expand investment
in low-cost housing, and to remain financially self-sufficient; (d) the
extension of INFONAVIT reforms to FOVISSSTE; (e) the further integration of
the housing finance market with the overall financial system; (f) the improved
targeting of public sector housing financing of FONHAPO, INFONAVIT and
FOVISSSTE to low-income households; and (g) the expansion of conmercial bank
lending for housing. At negotiations agreement was reached that, if the
Government takes action during project execution which is inconsistent with
the Housing Sector Policy Declaration, then the Bank could suspend
disbursements under the project (para. 3.1 (a)(ii)).
(c) FOVI Credit Line Component
2.7       The proposed loan of US$450 million would exclusively fund a share
of the total 1992-96 financing provided by FOVI for low-cost housing units
under the project. FOVI would onlend Bank loan funds to commercial banks
which would provide mortgage finuncing for the sale of houses, with a maximum
sales price of 130 MlWs, targeted to eligible beneficiaries (households



- 23 -
earning less than 5 multiples of tne minimum wage). It is estimated that FOVI
would finance the sale of 160,300 houses during the 1992-96 period, with about
23Z of the program's financing provided under the proposed loan. While the
project would not provide housing construction financing--this is generally
done by commercial banks with their own resources--homebuilders typically
would not build houses for lower income buyers (like those that occupy the
FOVI houses) without a prior commitment regarding the availability of mortgage
financing for the purchase of such housing.
(d) Studies Component
2.8       The proposed project would also include the preparation of three
studies (total cost US$100,000; see para. 2.21) on issues which are hindering
the future development of the housing sector. The preparation of the studies
would also enhance the sector dialogue between the Bank and the Government.
The studies would cover the following areas: (a) policy options for the
creation of a secondary mortgage market; (b) the development of a new index
for adjusting payments on FOVI mortgages; and (c) a development plan to
improve housing market information.
2.9       At negotiation, assurances were obtained that FOVI would carry out
the three above-mentioned studies under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank (see Annexes 8A, 8B, and 8C) and prepare and implement actions plans, as
appropriate, in accordance with the following time tables (para. 3.1 (b)(iv)):
(i)   comple,.e a study of policy options for the creation of a
secondary mortgage market and present the study results to
and discuss them with the Bank, by not later than June 30,
1993;
(ii)  complete a study of the development of a new index for
adjusting payments on FOVI mortgages and present the study
results to the Bank, by not later than June 30, 1993. By no
late,r than September 30, 1993, FOVI would prepare, and
thereafter carry out, an action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, which takes into account the results of such study; and
(iii) prepare a study on housing market information requirements
and present the study results to the Bank, by not later than
December 31, 1993. By not later than March 31, 1994, FOVI
would prepare, and thereafter carry out, an action plan,
satistactory to the Bank, which takes into account the
results of such study.
D. Prolect Implementation
2.10      FOVI would be responsible for coordinating overall project
implementation, including the monitoring of the regulatory reforms and the
Sector Policy Declaration, and for the execution of the credit line and the
studies components. The Government, primarily through SEDUE, would be
responsible for providing input to FOVI on sector developments and for
ensuring that satisfactory action is taken to achieve the objectives of the
Sector Policy Declaration. The Bank and the Government would use the annual



- 24 -
and mid-term reviews (pars. 2.15) to monitor project implementation against
key monitoring and performance indicators and other criteria.
2.11      Onlending and Lesal Arransements.  The onlending and legal
arrangements for the Loan would be similar to those followed for Loan 2947-HE.
The Borrower of the Loan will be BANOBRAS, a development bank and financial
agent of the Government, which will act as administrator of the Loan. The
onlending arrangements for the Bank loan proceeds would be as follows.
BANOBRAS, the Government and the Central Bank, as trustee of FOVI, would enter
into contractual arrangements for the transfer of the loan proceeds. BANOBRAS
would onlend Bank funds to the Central Bank (FOVI) in pesos at the Mexican
Government Treasury bill rate (CETES). The Government will take the full
foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the proposed Bank loan passed on
to FOVI in pesos. The CETES rate, being a market-based rate in an open
capital market, includes a foreign exchange risk component. FOVI would onlend
the funds to commercial banks at an annual interest rate equal to the banking
system's average cost of funds, CPP (which is the FOVI subloan rate to the
final borrower, see para. 2.12), minus a fixed spread on the outstanding
subloan balance of 3Z for Type A houses and 2Z for Type B1 houses. In the
event that the interest rates charged to commercial banks would not fully
cover FOVI's cost of funds and administrative costs, this difference would be
paid by the Government in periodic payments. Such budgetary payments would be
made in accordance with Mexican internal guidelines on the transfer of
external resources from the Government to trust funds. FOVI's financial
performance would be monitored under the project. In addition, the Government
would also provide to BANOBRAS any funds required by BANOBRAS to pay to the
Bank principal and interest and other charges due on the Bank loan. At
negotiation, agreement was reached with BANOBRAS, the Government and the
Central Bank on the above arrangements (para. 3.1 (a)(iii), 3.1 (b)(v), and
3.1 (c)(i)). A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of the
above-mentioned contractual arrangements (para. 3.2).
2.12      Financial Intermediation Under the FOVI Credit Line.  Private
builders would construct and sell houses in the market at their own risk,
using mortgage funds under the FOVI credit line, for which builders would bid
through the public auctions (para. 1.31). The commercial banks would be
responsible for mortgage loan approvals, for collecting downpayments and
mortgage payments from homebuyers, and for eventually repaying FOVI. In
accordance with FOVI's current regulations, commercial banks would charge
final borrowers a rate of interest equal to CPP on the FOVI subloans. But
commercial banks are free to levy other fees and charges on final borrowers
which increase the effective interest rate paid to banks, and moves these
rates to market levels. At present, commercial banks charge FOVI homebuyers a
one-time upfront fee, averaging 3S of the loaned amount, to cover loan
origination and other costs. Also, in connection with the proposed project,
FOVI recently revised its regulations to allow commercial banks to charge
final borrowers commissions on monthly payments, which would be market
determined, to cover the full administrative costs and credit risk associated
with the FOVI subloans (para. 1.32). Final intermediation under the project
would result in FOVI mortgage funds being made available to homebuyers at CPP,
plus the upfront fee and monthly commissions to cover loan origination and
administration costs and credit risks on the FOVI subloans.



- 25 -
2.13      Proiect Reporting.  FOVI has developed an information system which
compiles and evaluates data from a variety of sources including its loan
portfolio administered by commercial banks; its financial and accounting
records; the funds auctions; the deregulatory agreements being signed with
states; and the regulatory cost surveys being furnished by private home
builders. The Bank appraisal mission reviewed the adequacy of FOVI's
information system and related-analytical capacities (in terms of coverage,
content and the use of appropriate technology) as well as its action plan to
further expand and strengthen this system and capacity, and considers them to
be satisfactory. FOVI's progress in carrying out this action plan will be
monitored under the project.
2.14      At negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from FOVI that it
would submit annual progress reports to the Bank by March 31 of each year for
the previous calendar year (para. 3.1 (b)(vi)). As the major thrust of the
project is to support Government reforms to remove regulations barriers which
unnecessarily increase the cost of housing and to achieve the objectives
included in the Sector Policy Declaration, the annual progress report would
focus mainly on these areas, though full information on the implementation of
all project components would be provided. FOVI's information system (as well
as information provided by SEDUE) would be the basis for preparing annual
progress reports using agreed formats and monitoring indicators which are
discussed in paras. 2.16-2.20. FOVI would also be required to present the
Bank with a project completion report not later than six months after the
closing date of the loan.
2.15      Annual and Mid-Term Reviews.  Annually by not later than June 30 of
each year, the Bank and the Government would conduct a formal review of
progress made in the implementation of the proposed project and should this
review indicate that progress toward meeting the project's objectives is
unsatisfactory, the Bank could require FOVI and the Government to prepare and
execute, to the satisfaction of the Bank, action plans agreed during such
reviews. The annual reviews would provide an opportunity to discuss project
issues including: the progress in sector deregulation and overall sector
development and in the implementation of the Government'. Sector Policy
Declaration; land market liberalization; and FOVI's performance in terms of
reaching lower income households, stimulating increased commercial bank
lending for housing and maintaining its financial self-sufficiency. After two
years of project execution (by June 30, 1994), the Bank and the Governme t
would conduct a mid-term review of project implementation. In addition to
covering areas included in the annual reviews, the mid-term review would pay
particular attention to: (i) the overall progress being made in achieving the
aims of the Project and of the Government's Housing Sector Policy Declaration;
(ii) an assessment of the housing sector regulatory environment in each of the
Mexican states and the Federal District and of th, effectiveness of the FOVI
auction system and other mechanisms selected for inducing such entities to
deregulate; (iii) the project monitoring indicators and FOVI's compliance with
the performance targets (para. 2.19); (iv) the adequacy of the coverage and
content of the publication of FOVI's regulatory cost surveys; and (v) the
recommendations and, if applicable, the implementation time tables for the
three project-related studies. At negotiations, the Bank reached agreement
with the Government and FOVI on such reviews and the implementation of related
action plans (para. 3.1 (b)(vii)).



- 26 -
2.16      Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation of
the project would focus on three broad areas: (i) regulatory reforms; (ii)
FOVI's performancel and (iii) housing sector developments and policies. A
description of the respective procedures is provided below.
2.17      Reaulatorv Reforms.  During appraisal, the Bank discussed with FOVI
a procedure and format (along vith preliminary data) to be used to assess the
regulatory environment of each of the 31 Mexican states and the Federal
District, drawing upon information from the FOVI regulatory cost surveys and
from other sources. In making such an assessment, each state would be
evaluated in terms of its: (i) regulatory costs (i.e. high, medium, or low);
(ii) agreements signed with FOVI on deregulation and with SEDUE on notary
costsa (iii) building codes and land use planning; (iv) permit issue times;
and (v) territorial reserves and their transfer to the private sector. At
negotiations, it was agreed that as part of each annual progress report (para.
2.14) FOVI would: (a) provide the Bank information (in the format shown In
Annex 9) to assess whether the housing sector regulatory environment in each
of the states is "favorable" or "unfavorable" for promoting commercial bank
and private developer participation in the housing sector; and (b) inform the
Bank of the proportion of FOVI financing nationwide made available through its
auctions for housing in each state from the time the Loan was signed through
the period covered by such annual progress report (para. 3.1 (b)(viii)). This
information would then be analyzed jointly by the Bank and FOVI during the
annual and mid-term reviews as described in para. 2.15.
2.18      Furthermore, to evaluate the effectiveness of the FOVI funds
auction as a means to induce states to reduce their regulatory burdens (para.
2.4 (i)), at negotiations agreement was reached that at the mid-term review,
FOVI and the Bank would make, for each state and the Federal District, the
regulatory environment assessment described in para. 2.17. If, as a result of
such a review, the Bank determines that more than 40% of FOVI financing
nationwide (from the date of Loan signing through the end of the period
covered by the mid-term review) was assigned to developers in states assessed
in the Bank's sole opinion as having an "unfavorable" regulatory environment,
then FOVI would, by no later than one month after the conclusion of the mid-
term review, prepare and begin to carry out an action plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, to improve the means used to encourage housing sector deregulation
in the states deemed by the Bank to have an "unfavorable" housing sector
regulatory environment. Among the measures that could be taken is that FOVI
(and FONHAPO) could cease future lending to state and local housing
institutions in those states whose regulatory environment is assessed as
"unfavorable". At negotiations, the Bank and FOVI confirmed agreement on the
above-mentioned understanding (para. 3.1 (b)(ix)).
2.19      FOVI Performance.  Regular monitoring and evaluation of FOVI's
performance during project execution will be based on year-to-year comparisons
of key monitoring indicators and performance 'argets prepared by FOVI for
review and approval by the Bank at negotiations and presented in Annex 10.
The figures shown for the FOVI monitoring indicators (which cover expected
future lending levels, the number of units to be financed, the distribution of
fi'.tancing to be approved, and FOVI's net income) represent expectations based
on current data. FOVI would compile these figures annually and they would be
used as input for the annual and mid-term project reviews (para. 2.15). With
respect to its performance targets, which pertain to the distribution of FOVI



- 27 -
financing to be assigned through the funds auctions and the number of
deregulation agreements to be signed with states, FOVI has agreed that if such
targets are not meet then the Bank could require FOVI to prepare and implement
a satisfactory action plan, which would lead to the achievement of such
targets. At negotiations, the Bank and FOVI confirmed agreement on the above-
mentioned understanding (para. 3.1 (b)(x)).
2.20      Housing Sector Development and Policy Impact Monitoring.  Regular
monitoring and evaluation of overall sector development and of the success in
achieving the aims of the Housing Sector Policy Declaration and of the
objectives of the Project would be carried out by making year-end comparisons
of key statistics/indicators, using the format presented in Annex 11. At
negotiations, it was agreed that FOVI would compile the information needed to
monitor sector development, which it would include in the annual progress
reports to be discussed with the Bank du-ing the annual reviews (para. 2.15).
E. Prolect Costs and Financing Plan
2.21      The estimated total cost for the share of FOVI's low-cost housing
credit program over the 1992-1996 period which the Bank would help finance
would be US$1,594 million billion equivalent. This cost figure is based on
FOVI's experience during the past years for its credit program and funds
auctions and its financial projections (para. 1.34). The cost of preparing
the three project-related studies, which is expected to be relatively small
(about US$100,000 equivalent), will be borne by FOVI and the Central Bank with
their own resources. Physical and price contingencies have not been
calculated because the project is a line of credit operation, financing a
time-slice of an ongoing program. A breakdown of the total project costs, and
the corresponding financing plan is provided in Table 2 below:
Table 2: Total Project Cost and Financing Plan
-................... Projected-J.................-  Total
____________ ¶1992 \a   993  1 1994  1 1995   1 1996 b  199-96      X
---------------------USSNittions----------------------------
Total Investments\c  195    390     400     400      209     1,594    100
Financed by:      ____ ___            _        _ _                          l
IBRD              60      125     125      90       50       450     28
FOVI              115     225     235     270      139       984     62
Homebuyers        20       40      40      40       20       160      10
TOTAL          195     390     400      400      209     1,594    100
\a Covers 6 month period from July 1 to December 31
\b  Covers 6 month period from January 1 to June 30
\c Houses with a sales price of 130 MMMs or less financed by commercial banks
under the FOVI Program.



- 28 -
2.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$450 million would finance about 28Z of
total project costs. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to represent about
25Z of total project costs (in line with estimates used for Loans 3140-ME and
2947-HE). Limited local cost financing of about 3Z is justified in view of
the poverty impact of the proposed project. The remaining project costs would
be financed by FOVI with its own funds (US$984 million; 62%), and by
homebuyers' downpayments (US$160 million, 10Z).
F. Disbursements
2.23      Bank funds would be disbursed for up to 60% of the loan amounts
lent by FOVI to commercial banks for individual mortgage loans for Types A and
B1 houses, thus precluding any Bank financing of land costs. Uncertainty
about the level/speed of implementation of the FOVI lending program could
result in completing the loan disbursement before the project's objectives
have been accomplished, particularly those related to regulatory reform.
Therefore, at negotiations, the Bank reached agreement with FOVI that
disbursement limits under the project would be as follows: through end-May
1994, US$310 million; from the beginning of June 1994 through end-December
1995, US$90 million; during 1996 and thereafter, US$50 million. Any remaining
undisbursed loan balance at the end of any of the above loan disbursement
periods would be rolled over to the next period (para. 3.1 (b)(xi)).
2.24      All disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures
which would be subject to external audit. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that a Special Account would be set up at the Central Bank to speed up
disbursements funded initially with US$30 million (para. 3.1 (b)(xii)) which
represents about four months reimbursement requirements (para. 2.23). The
Special Account would be operated in accordance with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1996, and the loan to be closed six months thereafter. The four year loan
disbursement profile (see Annex 12) corresponds broadly to actual experience
with financial intermediation loans in Mexico.
2.25      It is proposed to permit retroactive financing up to US$5.0 million
for eligible expenditures as of April 22, 1992. This amount is expected to
provide financing for the purchase of eligible houses in Guadalajara, Mexico
to households affected by a major sewer line explosion that occurred in April
1992.
G. Procurement
2.26      FOVI follows an open policy regarding who is eligible for its
mortgage financing, including funds derived from the proposed Bank loan. All
developers regardless of size and geographic location of the housing project
can obtain access to POVI financing, through the public funds auctions.
Furthermore, developers from member countries of the Bank and from Switzerland
and Taiwan. China, would be allowed to bid at such auctions in which the
proposed loan funds are involved. To participate in the auctions, developers
must register with FOVI by fulfilling normal government requirements for
conducting business in Mexico, the terms and conditions of which are no
different for foreign developers than those applicable to Mexican developers.
FOVI's auction procedures, which are summarized in para. 1.31 and described in
detail in Annex 3, have been reviewed by the Bank and are found to be



- 29 -
satisfactory. At negotiation, agreement was obtained that FOVI would: (i)
continue to advertise the availability of funds through its auction system in
Mexican newspapers of national circulation; and (ii) publish annually during
project implementation, in the Develonment Business, information about its
fund auctions, similar in content to the General Procurement Notice referred
to in the Bank's Procurement Ciidelines (para. 3.1 (b)(xiii)).
2.27      For new housing construction, FOVI prescribes general minimum
design standards and limits the maximum selling price for eligible houses.
The developers, who use the FOVI mortgage financing to sell the houses,
construct such houses within these requirements. A comparison of prices of
FOVI-financed houses with bid prices in the market show that the FOVI products
have competitive prices and are of equal or better quality. Procedures
followed by developers for the procurement of cDnstruction services and
materials are efficient and consistent with normal commercial practices under
financial intermediation loans that are acceptable to the Bank. Additional
information on the size and types of houses financed by FOVI is provided in
paras. 1.29-1.30. Typical FOVI houses ranging in size from 33 m2 to 65 m2,
and have a selling price of between US$13,000 and US$21,000.
H. Accounting and Auditing
2.28      FOVI's accounts have been adequately maintained and regularly
audited by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. FOVI would
continue to have its accounts audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank and the auditor's report would be forwarded to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year. Similarly, the Special Account
and the statement of expenditures (para. 2.24) would be audited by independent
auditors, which should also be satisfactory to the Bank, and their report
would also be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. Additionally, BANOBRAS would continue to have its.financial
statements audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
commercial bankd which administer the FOVI loans are subject to periodic
examinations by the Government's bank regulatory authority ("la Comision
Nacional Bancaria") and to annual audits by qualified external audit firms.
At negotiations, agreement was reached on the above-mentioned auditing
arrangements (para. 3.1 (b)(xiv) and 3.1 (c)(ii)).
I. Prolect Benefits
2.29      The major project benefits would include: an increase the supply of
affordable housing, especially to lower income groups; an improvement in the
efficiency of the housing finance system and sector performance which should
be reflected in an overall reduction in the relative price of housing and an
increase in the production through out the sector; and the extension of bank-
ing services to lower-income families currently excluded from the banking
system. Also the three project-related studies would provide the analytical
basis for important future government action to improve both the public and
private sector participation in the housing market, and the integration of the
housing finance system with the overall financial markets. The proposed study
on the development of a new mortgage index would lead to higher cost recovery
(through shorter repayment periods) on mortgage lending by public sector
intermediaries, and thus would result in lower future fiscal transfers.



- 30 -
J. Environmental Impact
2.30      The project is rated B.  The federal government in general, and
most state and local governments in particular, have adequate laws,
regulations and codes governing urban development and land use planning (which
cover the construction of housing projects) to ensure against environmental
degradation. For those few states vhich have not yet fully adopted federal
government's standards for urban development and land use planning, FOVI has
begun including in dersgulation agreements it is signing with state governors
(para. 2.3), a clause which would encourage the state to adopt the federal
standards. Furthermore, while the institutional capacities of SEDUE, and of
state and local governments, to monitor and enforce their respective
environmental protection responsibilities need to be strengthened, the most
suitable wve to address this matter is through the Bank's dialogue and project
work in urban development, municipal strengthening and environmental
protection. As the project will offer home financing to low- and moderate-
income households, many of today's environmental problems derived from
substandard housing conditions would be avoided in newly-developed areas.
2.31      With regard to seismic risks, the federal government with the
Bank's support under the 1985 Earthquake Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2665-
ME), has successfully assisted states in modifying their building codes and
land use regulations to protect against such risks.
K. Ra.Ks and Safeguards
2.32      There is no specific risks with regard to the Government's
fulfillment of commitments made under the project. Past Bank experience in
Mexico's housing sector is that once a program is agreed, implementation has
proceeded smoothly. The principal project risk is that the market mechanisms
to induce deregulation may not be fully effective, or may take longer to make
an impact than envisaged under the project. To minimize risks, the project
includes limits on loan disbursements to FOVI to ensure adequate time for the
deregulation mechanisms to be implemented and show results. Additionally, the
project provides for annual and mid-term reviews, requiring the Governument to
take remedial action, should the pace toward achieving the project's
objectives be deemed unsatisfactory.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. During Negotiations
3.1       During negotiations, assurances and agreements were obtained on the
following:
(a) From the Federal Government:
(i)   that failure on the part of FOVI to use its auction system
would be an event of default under the loan (para. 2.4);
(ii)  to carry out its Housing Sector Policy Declaration, and that,
if the Government takes action during project execution that



- 31 -
is inconsistent with the Housing Sector Policy Declaration,
then the Bank could suspend loan disbursements (para. 2.6);
and
(iii) to enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, for the onlending of Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.11);
(b)  From the Central Bank that 4t would cause FOVI to:
(i)   assign funds to private developers exclusively through its
auction system (para. 2.4);
(ii)  promote, sign and monitor deregulation agreements with at
least 22 states by not later than June 30, 1994 (para. 2.4);
(iii) carry out annual surveys of regulatory costs for housing
projects which it has financed, and publish the survey
results by March 31 of each year. in a form and publication
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.4);
(iv)  carry out studies on the creation of a secondary mortgage
market, on the development of a new index to adjust payments
on FOVI mortgages, and on information needs for housing
finance and production under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and prepare and implement action plans, as
appropriate, in accordance with agreed to timetables (para.
2.9);
(v)   enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
for the onlending of Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.11);
(vi)  prepare and .ubmit to the Bank annual progress reports and a
completion report not later than six months after the closing
date (para. 2.14);
(vii) carry out jointly with the Bank and the Government, by no
later than June 30 of each year, an annual review, as well
as a mid-term review, by not later than June 30, 1994, of
the progress made in achieving the project's objectives and,
if necessary, prepare and execute to the satisfaction of the
Bank remedial plans of action agreed during the annual and
mid-term reviews (para. 2.15);
(viii) provide the Bank, as part of the annual progress report,
information to assess whcther the housing sector regulatory
environment in each of the states is "favorable" or
"unfavorable" for promoting commercial bank and private
developer participation in the housing sector, and inform
the Bank of the proportion of FOVI financing nationwide
which was made available through its auctions for housing in
each state from the time of loan signature (para. 2.17);
(ix)   at the mid-term review (or by not later than June 30, 1994),
FOVI and the Bank would make, for each state and the Federal



- 32 -
District, a regulatory environment assessment. If, as a
result of such assessment, the Bank determines that more
than 40% of FOVI financing nationwide (since Loan signing)
was assigned to developers in states assessed by the Bank as
having an "ui.favorable" regulatory environment, then FOVI
would prepare and begin to carry out an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve the means used to
encourage housing sector deregulation in the states deemed
to have an "unfavorable" regulatory environment (para.
2.18);
(x)    achieve the FOVI performance targets, and if such targets
have not been met, FOVI could be required to prepare and
implement an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which
would lead to the future achievement of such targets (para.
2.19);
(xi)   reach agreement that loan disbursement limits under the
project would be as follows: through end-May 1994, US$310
million; from the beginning of June 1994 through end-
December 1995, US$90 million; during 1996 and thereafter,
US$50 million (para. 2.23);
(xii)  establish and operate a Special Account, with an initial
deposit of US$30 million, to the satisfaction of the Bank
(para. 2.24);
(xiii) continue to advertise its funds auctions in Mexican
newspapers of nationwide circulation, and publish annually
during project execution, in the Development Business,
information about its funds auctions (para. 2.25); and
(xiv)  have its financial statements and project-related accounts
audited annually by external auditors, satisfactory to the
Bank and forward the results to the Bank not later than by
June 30 of each year (para. 2.27).
(c) From BANOBRAS to:
(i)    enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, for the onlending of Bank loan proceeds (para. 2.11);
and
(ii)   have its financial statements audited annually by external
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank and forward the results
to the Bank not later than by June 30 of each year (para.
2.27).
B. Effectiveness
3.2       A condition of effectiveness for the proposed Bank loan would be
the conclusion of contractual arrangements between BANOBRAS, the Government
and FOVI for the onlending of the proposed loan proceeds (para. 2.11).



- 33 -
3.3       With the above c.onditione, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$450 million equivalent to BANOBRAS, repayable in 15 years,
including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICQ
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Total Housing Investment and Number of Mortgages
Approved by Type of Housing Institution in 1991
C Comercial Banks                 2,870          53.3           92          26.4
FOVI                                353          6.6            3n2     _    9.2
Subtotal            3,223         59.9           124          35.6
INPONAVIT                         1,215         22.6            77          22.1
FOVISSTE                            252           4.7           26           7.5
_Other                               17           0.3            41.1
Subtotal            1,484         27.6           107          30.7
FONHAPO
Housing Units                    134          2.5            16           4.6
.~~                  ~
Serviced Lots                     61          1.1           24           6.9
Subtotal            32195          3.6            40         31.5
OTHERS
Housing Units                    416          7.7            22           6.4
Serviced Lots                      7          1.2           55           15.8
Sulbtotal             483          8.9            77          22.2
Grand  Totals                     5,385          1.1o          348          1006
\S Average exchange r1te Pesos 3,010 squals US$1.00.
Source: FOVI



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
MEXICO
HOUSING MARR1T DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mortgage Lending of Commercial Banks and FOVI (1989-1991)
mXX~~~~~ >
Commercial Banks       22,439      452.2         52,603       1,395.7      92,488      2,869.6
FOVI                   17,573      157.4         19,367         281.6      31,875        352.6
Total            40,012      609.6        81,970       1,677.3    124,363        3,222.2
\_a   US$ equiialents were calculated on the basis of the average US$/Pesos exchange rate for
each ycar as follows: 1989- Pesos 2,455; 1990- Pesos 2,785; and 1991- Pesos 3,010.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOVI Financing Operations and Credit Auctions
Brief History
1.        The "Fondo de Operaci6n y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda"
(FOVI) was created in 1963 by the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda
y Crgdito Puiblico) to channel federal funds from the Central Bank (Banco de
M6xico) to commercial banks to finence low cost housing for beneficiaries
earning between 2 and 12 multiples of the minimum wrge.  Until 1989,
commercial banks were required to lend 61 of their funds for low cost housing
at federally stipulated preferential interest rates. Since then, these
requirements have been eliminated.
2.        Provided below is a description of FOVI's recent lending
operations, its lending policies, its fund auction system and its mortgage
instrument.
Recent Developments in FOVI's QOerations
3.        FOVI's operations have served to encourage commercial banks to
finance lower cost housing with their own funds. Although FOVI is authorized
to finance housing costing 216 monthly minimum wages (MMW), in fact it
currently limits its financing to a maximum 160 MMW. The commercial banks now
finance housing costing more than 160 MNW and are beginning to lend at FOVI's
upper end of 160 MMM. Further, during 1991 FOVI financing showing
construction, as the commercial banks are willing to ceased financing such
construction with their own resources at market rates.
4.        Another notable development has beer the trend in interest rates
for low cost mortgages. In 1988, the year the Bank approved its first loan to
FOVI (Loan 2947-HE for US$ 300 million), FOVI's interest rates were 12% to 15%
with inflation at 501 and CPP at 48Z. An important covenant in the Loan
Agreement was the Bank's requirement that FOVI charge mortgage beneficiaries
an interest rate equal to the CPP. As of December 1991, over 90Z of FOVi's
loans to banks carry this CPP interest rate which has ranged from 150Z in
December of 1987 down to 201 in February of 1992. The rest of the portfolio,
less than 101, emitted before 1988 still carries an average fixed rate of 122.
FOVI'S Low Cost Housing Participation
5.        House size and cost.  FOVI stratifies its financing into three main
categories, Type A houses up to 100 MMW, Type Bl houses between 100 and 130
MWM and Type B2 houses between 130 and 160 NMW.  At current prices, FOVI
finances houses from 33 square meters (Type A) to 65 square meters (Type B2).
6.        Percentage of house financed.  FOVI will finance 901 of Type A
houses, 851 of Type BI houses and 801 of Type B2 houses.  If the commercial



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
banks issuing the individual mortgages do not wish to use their own funds,
they must collect down payments from beneficiaries of 10%, 15% and 20% for
Type A, B1 and B2 houses respectively. Recently, FOVI revised its regulations
to allow commercial banks to finance up to 100Z of the selling price of the
house if the homebuyer is able to provide the bank with adequate guarantees to
cover the additional risks.
7.        Startina Dayment and affordability.  The starting monthly payments
expressed as a pexcentage of the loan are 0.92 for Type A, 1.0% for Type B1
and 1.25S for Type 32. Under the assumption that beneficiaries can afford to
pay 25S of their income for mortgage debt service, beneficiaries financed
from FOVI's funds should earn from 3.24 NMW for Type A to 6.40 MMW for Type B2
houses as shown below:
Table 1: FOVI House Types, Costs and Starting Payment
House Type
A            B1            B2
Maximum cost in MW                              100           130           160
House cost (mil. of pesos)                    35.7           46.4          57.1
Percent financed                               90%           85%            80%
Loan (millions of pesos)                      32.1          39.4           45.7
First payment Z                              0.90%          1.00Z         1.252
First payment amount (000)                   289.2         394.5         571.2
Affordability 2                                25Z            25%           25%
Monthly income (000)                          1,157         1,578         2,285
Minimum wage 1991 (000) *                       357           357           357
Monthly income req. in MNW                    3.24           4.42          6.40
* In December 1991 the minimum wage increased 12% to Mex$ 402 thousand
The FOVI Credit Cycle
8.        The FOVI credit cycle begins with FOVI's award in public auctions
to developers of a commitment to provide long term finance through a
commercial bank.  When the housing project is completed, the commercial banks
issue individual mortgages and request reimbursement from FOVI up to the
amounts previously auctioned.
The Auction of FOVI Yunds
9.        The Bank of Mexico, acting as trustee of FOVI, publicly announces
an offer of financing available by FOVI house type expressed in number of



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
monthly minimum wages (MNW). The May 14, 1991 announcement published in a
newspaper for a May 23, 1991 auction offered 170,000 MMW Type A houses selling
for a maximum of 100 MMW which qualifies for 90Z financing under current FOVI
policies.
10.       Any developer previously registered with FOVI may participate with
his offer either in person or by mail. The offer consists of a sealed bid
(expressed as a percentage of the expected long term loan requirements) for
the number of MW his project requires accompanied by a certified check in
full payment of a .0005% bid fee (cuota de registraci6n) and the name of the
bank financing the long term mortgage.
11.       The sealed bids are opened on auction day by a committee attended
by representatives of the National Bank Commission (Comisi6n Nacional
Bancaria), the Central Bank (Banco de Mexico) and FOVI. On May 23, 1991, at
FOVI's offices, the committee opened the 11 bids received from 9 developers
for 2,253 Type A houses costing approximately 142,000 NMW, 79% of FOVI's
offering of 170,000 MMW. FOVI awarded all bidders and collected bid fees of
Mex$ 25.5 million (US$ 8,500) from the developers. The developers offered to
pay 2.0% to 0.1% of the credit requested for an average of 0.62Z, payable when
the individual mortgages are issued.
12.       In essence, the developers are willing to pay for FOVI's promise
for long term mortgage financing through a commercial bank. Typically,
develope.s arrange for construction financing though a bank willing to accept
the individual mortgages. The May 23, 1991 auction will be financed through 6
banks, 83% to the three largest commercial barks in Mexico, Bancomer, Banca
Serfin and Banamex, and the balance through three others.
13.       FOVI notified the developers of the results of the auction and on
May 27, 1991, published the FOVI developer registration number of the
successful bidders in a newspaper. The developers, assured of individual long
term financing for their buyers, start their projects.
Supplemental Award to Commerciai Barna
14.       In addition to the commitment for long term finance awarded to
commercial banks based on developers' bids, FOVI assigns an additional non-
project specific availability to banks amounting to 10% of the credits awarded
through developers. Awards through credit auctions amounted to 12.7 million
MMW from 1989 to 1991, and in addition banks received a 10% supplemental award
of 1.27 million MMW during this period. Approximately 10Z of the,,e awards
have been used, but FOVI officials are devising measures to make these awards
more attractive.
The Construction Period
15.       During the period when the houses are being built, FOVI
concentrates on receiving assurances from the developer that construction is
advancing within tiSe time constraints specified by FOVI. The developer risks
losing FOVI's fin&4cing if construction doesn't begin within three months
after the funds are awarded in the auction, or is not completed within 12
months of such date. Should the final selling price exceed 100 MMW, the



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
project will be treated by POVI as Type B1 housing (more than 100 and less
than 130 NMW) which qualifies for 852 financing and does not qualify for other
Type A incentives.
Commercial Bank Income at Project Completion and Reoavment Period
16.       The developer begins to sell his houses; the commercial bank begins
it mortgage financing and requests reimbursement from FOVI every 15 days. At
this time, the banks charge an up-front fee to the individual beneficiary of a
maximum of 2.5 MMW. Starting August 1991, FOVI established an additional
temporary incentive payment to banks for accepting Type A mortgages amounting
to a flat 1.8 MMW.  Type B (over. 100 MMW) houses do not qualify for this
incentive. Table 2 summarizes commercial bank income by house type and size
of loan when the developer completes his project, sells the houses and seeks
long term mortgage financing from his bank for his clients:
Table 2: Comuercial Bank Income at Project Completion
House Type
A         B1          B2
Maximum cost in MNW                                 100         130         160
Loan (millions)                                    32.1        39.4        45.7
First payment Z                                   0.90Z       1.00-       1.25%
First payment amount (000)                        289.2       394.5      571.2
When mortgages issue in MMW:
From beneficiary                               2.25        2.50        2.50
From FOVI, temporary Type A acceptance          1.80
incentive (MMW)
When mortgages issue (pesos 000):
From beneficiary                                 723        986       1,142
From FOVI, temporary Type A acceptance           643
incentive
Total                                          1.366        986       1.142
Total as a Z of loan                          4.25Z       2.50Z       2.50S
17.       The homeowner begins monthly payments to the financing bank, and
the bank begins repaying its loan with FOVI. The repayment period initiates
two monthly sources of income for the banks from FOVI: (1) a portfolio
administration fee based on the amount of the bank's monthly payment to FOVI



- 40 -
Page 5 of 9
and (2) a credit risk fee based on a percentage of the outstanding loan
balance (see Table 3).
Table 3: Commercial Bank Income During Mortgage Loan Repayment
House Type
B1          B2
Calculation basis:
Administr&tion fee-
Type A in NMW                            0.01105
Type B as a Z of payment                               1.001       1.00O
Credit risk fee Z of loan-
Annual                                     3.00       2.00Z       2.00Z
Monthly                                  0.2500X    0.1667Z    0.1667%
Each month in Pesos:
Administration fee -                           3,945       3,945      5,712
Credit risk fee -
Annual                                   963t900    788,970    913,920
Monthly                                   80,325      65,748      76,160
Total Annual (pesos 000):
Administration fee                               964         789         914
Credit risk fee                                   47          47         69
1.011         836        982
Annual as a 1 of loan                             3.151       2.12Z       2.15Z
The Commercial Banks' Portfolio Administration Fee
18.       FOVI grants the commercial banks a monthly portfolio administration
fee of 11 of the bank's monthly payment to FOVI for Type B housing (over 100
MMW) and a flat 0.01105 MNW or Mex$ 3,945 (USs 1.30) each month for all Type A
housing. The portfolio administration fee for a 100 MNW house with a starting
payment of Mex$ 289,200 is 1.41 of the monthly payment. Since this fee for
Type A housing is a fixed amount independent of house size within Type A, the
banks vould receive 0.01105 MMW for a Type A house costing 80 MMW or 1.7% of
the monthly payment. In May 1992, FOVI revised its lending regulations to



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
allow commercial banks, at their discretion, to charge borrowers a monthly
commission on FOVI loans to fully cover the administrative costs and credit
risk association with such loans.
T:ie Commercial Banks' Credit Risk Fee
19.       For Type A houses up to 100 MMW, FOVI pays the commercial banks a
fee amounting to 3% of the outstanding loan balance payable monthly (0.25% of
the month end balance). For Type B houses, this fee is 2%, payable monthly at
0.1667% of the outstanding balance.
Key Characteristics of the Mortgage Instrument
20.       Interest rate.  Commercial banks issue FOVI financed mortgages at
an interest rate to their beneficiaries equal to a national financial index
known as CPP (costo porcentual promedio), the average cost of term deposits at
commercial banks. During the last three years, this annual interest rate has
fluctuated monthly from an 135Z in February of 1988 to 49% in February of 1989
and then declining steadily to 22Z in July 1991 and 19% in February, 1992.
21.       Initial Pavmbnt.  The first beneficiary payment to the commercial
banks for all FOVI financed loans is based on a percentage of the starting
loan balance. For Type A credits up to 100 MMW, the initial payment is 0.9%
of the loan. The starting payment increases to 1.0% of the loan for Type B1
houses up to 130 MMW and 1.25% up to 160 MMW.  Houses costing more than 160
MHW up to 216 MMW, FOVI's statutory limit, but not currently financed by FOVI,
would require a starting payment of 1.50% of the loan.
22.       Subsequent oavments indexed to the minimum wage.  For all POVI
loans the initial payment continues each month unchanged until the minimum
wage changes. The month following a change in the minimum wage, payments
increase by an amount equal to the percentage increase in the minimum wage. A
1OZ increase in the minimum wage will trigger a 10% increase in the monthly
payment. Thereafter, payments remain constant until the next increase in the
minimum wage. Every five years, the payment increase for Type A loans, that
is those loans with an initial payment of 0.9%, will increase 3 percentage
points more than the increase in minimum wages. A 10% increase in minimum
wages at the beginning of the 5th, 10th and 15th years for these loans will
cause a 13% increase in the monthly payment in those years.
23.       Capitalization of unDaid interest.  Interest at CPP is calculated
monthly for all FOVI loans. If the monthly payment is less than the interest
charged, the unpaid interest is added to the outstanding balance. In other
words, the bank'6 finance the unpaid beneficiary interest and FOVI finances
the bank's unpaid interest. This capitaliLation of interest continues until
the monthly payment is more than the interest charged. As of July 1991 with
CPP at 21.79% or 1.82% monthly, a Type B loan with an initial payment at 1.0%
of the loan, .82% of the loan will be added monthly to the outstanding
balance, the difference between the interest charge of 1.82% and the payment
received of 1.0%. In recent years this capitalization of unpaid interest is a
significant part of portfolio movement. During 1990, for instance, the
capitalization of interest amounted to almost 42% of new loans issuing, and



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 9
the accumulated capitalization of interest constituted 242 of the outstanding
balance as shown in Table 4:
Table 4: FOVI Loan Portfolio Activity 1986-1991
Billions of Pesos
Acum.
1986-                          Aug.      1986-
1988      1989      1990       1991      1991
Balance beginning of year        96       901      1,497     2,750         96
New credits issuing           768       419        930       661     2,778
Recapitalization               74       204        388       214       880
Collections                  (38)      (26)       (65)      (50)     (178)
Balance end of year             901     1.497      2.750     3,576     3,576
Recapitalization Z:
New credits issuing          9.6%     48.7%      41.7%     32.5%     31.7%
Average balance                       17.0Z      18.3%      6.8S
Year end balance                      18.6%      24.2%     24.6%
24.       Maturities.  An important feature of these loans is an
unpredictable maturity arising from fluctuating interest rates and
unpredictable payment increases based on changes in the minimum wage. Under
the assumption that wage increases, and therefore payment increases, will keep
pace with inflation, these loans will amortize in 12 to 15 years. During the
first 6 to 9 years, the balance outstanding increases from capitalizations of
unpaid interest.
25.       FOVI buy-back guarantee.  A serious decline in real wages during
the first 4 years could increase maturities. Should the beneficiaries not
cancel their debt within 20 years, the current loan agreements stipulate that
FOVI will absorb the unpaid balance. The Central Reserve Bank is authorized
to extend this 20 year maximum maturity. FOVI August 1991 projections
forecast these loans will mature in less than 15 years.
26.       Incidence in FOVI's loan Rortfolio.  As August 1991, over 92Z of
FOVI's loan portfolio is based on CPP interest rates with payments indexed to
the minimum vage.
Indexed Payments and Commercial Bank Income
27.       Since the commercial bank's portfolio administration fee is based
on a monthly payment that increases when the minimum wage increases, and the
bank's credit risk fee is calculated on a percentage of the outstanding
balance that increases with the capitalization of unpaid interest, the bank's
income increases over time in nominal terms as well.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
Summar, of Auctions from Inception (July 1989) to December 1991
28.       From July 1989 to December 1991, FOVI held 22 credit auctions to
finance a total of 124,128 houses, 46,179 Type A, 63,054 Type BI and 14,895
Type B2. The tabulations at the end of this Annex show the results of these
auctions for the three years of auctions, 1989 to 1991.
29.       House tvDes and volumes.  During the three years of auctions,
approximately 88Z of the awards in MHW (85% in number of houses) went for
Types A and B1 houses (up to 130 MHW). Discussions with FOVI and Central
Reserve Bank officials indicate an awareness of the need for FOVI to emphasize
Type A houses (less than 100 MMW). The August 1991 temporary Type A placement
incentive (mentioned above in the section on bank income at project
completion) is a move in this direction.
30.       Type B2 houses (122 of the awards, 152 of the houses), shows a
gradual decline from 19S of the awards in 1989 to 122 in 1991. FOVI officials
expect this trend to continue in 1992.
31.       Partici2ating commercial banks.  Although 17 commercial banks have
participated, the three largest banks in Mexico, Bancomer, Banamex and Serfin,
have placed 72Z of the total, a participation that generally corresponds to
their market share of the commercial banking system.
32.       GeograDhical distribution.  Only the state of Oaxaca has not
participated in the auctions during 1989 to 1991. Approximately 100
municipalities in the rest of the 31 states and the Federal District partici-
pated in 1989 and 1990. During 1991, all but the four states of Morelos,
Tlaxcala, Campeche and Oaxaca have participated. Typically, one municipality
within the state accounts for a large share within the state, and during the
full year of 1990, only 8 of 31 states had projects in more than 3 cities.
Although 30 states have FOVI financed projects, the top five in 1990,
Aguascalientes, San Luis Potosi, Baja California Norte, Mexico and Chihuahua,
accounted for 41Z of the total.
33.       During 1990 and 1991, over 722 of the credits were awarded for
projects in medium size cities, 172 in the three metropolitan areas of Mexico
City, Guadalajara and Monterrey and 11Z in smaller cities.
34.       Bid income and finance availability.  During 1989, the first year,
developers offered from 1.52 to 18.02 (average 8.02) of expected loan value
for FOVI's commitment to finance the mortgages. During 1990 and 1991, the
developers' offers declined steadily to an average of 3.0Z and 1.02 of
expected loan value in 1990 and 1991 respectively. FOVI officials attribute
this decline to awaxeness among developers of the availability of financing.
There is a direct correlation between FOVI's finance supply and the develo-
pers' demand. !n 1989 FOVI sold overall 89Z of the amounts placed in auction,
but in 1990 FOVI sold 722 and in 1991 54Z. Table 5 below shows FOVI's bid
income as a percentage of credits auctioned and the proportion of FOVI's
offers awarded by year since inception.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
Table 5: Percent of POVI Offers Sold and Bid Hargins
Total      Type A    Type BI       Tvge B2
Percent of FOVI offers sold:
1989 (7 months)                   89.4t       85.0Z        98.5Z        97.42
1990 (12 months)                  71.62       59.0Z        76.0Z        76.02
1991 (12 months)                  54.12       36.52        70.3Z        46.52
1989-1991                         66.82       55.52        74.7Z        69.42
Average bid 2t                        8.02        7.92        9.22         7.32
1989 (7 months)
1990 (12 months)                   3.02         1.8Z        2.82         4.92
1991 (12 months)                    1.02        0.42        1.2Z .SZ
1989-1991                          3.3%         ".7         3.1S         3.01



- 45 -
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARRET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOVI Historical Financial Results
Condensed Balance Sheet
(thousands of US dollars)
Exchange rate end of year,                       3,050           2,941            2,630          2,281            2,007
pesos per US dollar
As of December 31,
Assets                                                  1991            1990             1989            1988            1987
Government securlties                                 $26,139           $9,215          $2,271          $7,619           15,484
Mortgage financing to banks                         1,298,726          935,247         714,404        394,906           205,664
Other Assets                                            5.635            3.383           2,097           1,397            1.821
TOTAL                                         S1.330.5C0         S947.845         S718.771       S403.922         S222.969
Liabilities and net worth
Liabilities:
L. T. debt, Bank of Mexico
Operatlg Credit Lines                           $800,220        $543,616         $558,149       $305,279         $159,869
Int'l loan proceeds onlent                        261.906         206.733           17.864               0               0
1,062,126         750,348          576,013        305,279          159,869
Payables and accrued expenses                           6.852            6,721          14.078           9,812            6.829
1.068.978         75Z.070          590.091        315.091          166,698
Net vorth:
Goverment contributions                                64,929           55,551          52,552          45,523           38,058
Retained earnings prior years                         130,386           68,076          37,563          16,029            5,6C9
Results current year                                   63.417           67.147          38.565          27.279           12.604
258./32         190.775          128.681         88.831           56.272
TOTAL                                         S1,330.500         S947.845        S718.771        S403.922         S222.969



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Pa&e 2 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POVI Historical Financial Results
Condensed Income Statement
(thousands of US dollars)
Year ended December 31
1991            1990             1989           1988              1987
Incocie:
Interest                                           $233,802        $223,909         $150,580        $98,713          $47,286
Financing coamitment fees                            12,588          15,129              928               0                0
Federal expense subsidy                               2,371           2,168                 0              0                0
Credit supervision fees                                 148              872           1,514           1,888              921
Action registration feee                                 00              422             205               0                0
249.209         242.502          153.227        100,600           48.210
Expenses:
Interest expense-
operating credit lines                            125,778         146,504          111,972         70,963           34,193
lnt'l loan proceeds onlent                         47.749          22.551              218             168              174
173,527         169,055          112,190         71,131           34,366
Administrative                                        3,408            2,545           2,071           1,922            1,080
Trustee fees to Bank of                                 635              517             333             212              114
Mexico
Portfolio fees paid to banks                          8,722           2,002                 0              0                0
international bank fees                                   0            1,150              30              37               36
Other, net                                                0               85              38              19               10
137.792         175.354          114.662         73.321           35.606
Net income for the year                              S 63.417        S 67.147         S 38.565       S 27.279          S 12,604



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARRET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POVI Historical Financial Results
Condensed Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds
(thousands . US dollars)
(Seot'
Sources of fundst                                      19                 9             1989           L9'8              1987
Results of operations                               $47,030         $67,147          $38,565        $27,279           $12,604
Add, depreciation and
amorcization                                           21 22                              9              3                2
Total from operation.                              47,050          67,170           38,574         27,282            12,607
Collections mortgage loan.                           18,574           22,097           9,962           9,542            6,710
Collection of special loan to banks                       0         129,212                 0              0                0
New loans from Bank of
Mexico, net of repayments                         242.674         235.260          311.228        164.587            83.348
Government contribution to
FOVI fund capital                                     615             8557          13,068         12,654            13,184
Increase (decr.) tn payables                         10.737          (5.867)          5567           3,802             4,684
Total sources                                         319.651          456.429         378.400         217,867          120.534
Uses of funds:
Investments In (sales of)
government securities                               2,614           7,184          (4,338)        (6,008)             7,876
New mortgage loan financing                         241,070         316,377          159,254        195,967           105,867
Special loan to banking
aystem                                                  0                0         144,495               0                0
Capitalization of interest                           75,834         131,803           77,574         27,492             4,946
Special charge to net worth                               c                0                0            624              519
Purchases of equipment                                   55               32               43             79               18
Increase in other a"sets                                 74            1,499             852           (281)            1,305
Interest receivable increae decrease                      4            (466)             519             (5)                3
Total Uses                                            319,651          456.429         378 400         217.867          120.534
Net increase (decrease) in cash
during the year                                          So               S0               So             So         _      0



- 48 -
ANNEXE 4
Page 4 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOVI Financial Projections
Forecasted 1992-96 Lending Program
3auatn  Cr.dit. Asesued tbru Auctious (Units)
Was Price of 130 NOJ  or l1es                              51.019        49.191               ,s095         39.874            62.806           65.318          291,284
sBles Price above I30SM 1s                                  6,994         3.830             4,000            4.000                 0                 0          11.830
Total                                                   56.013        33,021           59,095            63,874            62,806           65,318         302.114
gLesing Credits Financed (Units)                        _       _      
Sas Price of 130 ION1 or loe                               22.995        23 551            23.623           24.190            23.839           27,430          124,633
Sas Pric e aboe 130   6e                                    8,$80         3.494             8,939            9,201             8.038            3,977           33.664
Total                                                   31,873        29.041            32.582           33.391            33,877           :1,407          160,297
gOUsin  Credits Pinanced  (peso, millions)
Sales Price of 130 W81 or l.e                            "S6.158       990,135         1.069.331        1.153,045         1.286.228        1.429,372       4.678.334
Sale. Frice above 1SO 2hMs                                483.041       281.119           279.642          297.777           242.752          230,989        1.702.841
Total                                               1.351.199    1.271.254          1.349.173         1,452,823        1.328.980         1.680,360       6.381,195
Reuin  Credit. Fiaced  (USS millions                    ______                                                            ______________
SsBa  Fli. of 130 1W8   or loss                               28             304              308               317              336               356           1.621
Sales Pice above 130 186_                                     161             86               6I                82               64                62             375
Total                                                      449           390               389              399               400              418            1.996
Ave. E!!!n       ato (paoolUS8)                                3,010          3.238            3,470             3.643            3,825             4.017           3.643



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POVI Financial Projections
Balance Sheet Projections
(thousands of US dollars)
Ave. Exchange rate for                3,258           3,470            3,643           3,825            4,017
year, pesos per US
dollar
As of December 31
Assets                                          1992            1993            1994            1995            1996
Covernment securities                          58,902           49,750          54,106          54,342            42,168
Mortgage flnancing to banks                 1,726,317        2,209,302       2,679,386       3,160,493         3,689,918
Other Assets                                    5.751            5.751           57751 5.751
7OTAL                                   1,791.020        2.264.803       2.739.243       3,220,586         3.737.837
Liabilittes and Net Worth
Liabilities.
L. T. debt, Bank of Mexico
Operating Credit Lines                    1,101,437        1,414,972       1,748,638       2,074,680         2,524,737
Int'l loan proceeds onlent                  376.371          494.47J         595.971         704.871           684.871
1,477,808       1,909,443       2,344,609       2,779,551         3,209,608
Payable* and acerud expenses                    7.299            7.299           7,299           7.299             7.299
1,485,107       1,916,742       2,351,908       2,786,850         3,216,907
wev worths
Governmnt contributions                        86,204          104,310         122,392         145,454           199,992
Retained earninga prior years                 192,296          219,709         243,751         264,943           288,282
Results current year                            27.413          24.042          21.192          23.339            32.656
305.913         348.061       _3 7,315           433.736          520.930
TOTAL                                    1.791.020        2.264.803       2.739.243       3.220.586         3.737.837



- 50 -                                                   ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
POVI Financial Projections
Income Statement Projections
(thousands of US dollars)
Year ended December 31
1992          1993           1994             1995            1996
Income:
Interest                                          180,900         236,140        293,321         350,392          412,058
Financing commitment fees                          11,526          12,233          13,172         13,863           15,235
Federal expense subsidy                                 0               0               0              0                0
Credit supervision fee.                                 0               0               0              0                0
192,426        248.373         306.493        364.255          427.293
Expenses:
Interest expense -
operating credit lines                            99,484         135,527        174,629         208,410          246,593
Int'l loan proceeds onlent                         33.402          45.719         57.248          68.294           72.961
132,886        181,246         231,877         276,704         319,554
Administrative                                        4,549           4,828           5,199          5,492            6,013
Trustee fees to Bank of Mexico                          932           1,188           1,437          1,692            1,982
Portfollo fees paid to banks                         26,113          36,295          46,314         56,867           67,088
International bank fees                                 533             774             474            161                0
Other, net                                                 0              0               0               0               0
165.013        224.331         285.301        340.916          394.637
Net income for the year                              27.413          24.042          21.192         23,339           32,656



- 51-                      1
ANNEX 5A
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Features of the FOVI Model Agreement'
Introduction
This Agreement, which is cosigned by the Governor of the State, the
Minister of Fi.iance and Public Credit, and the Director General of FOVI, is a
manifestation of their interests in joining efforts to advance in the
fulfillment of the constitutional precept that every family should have worthy
and decorous housing.
Obiectives
In signing this agreement, the parties hope to promote and to facilitate
the construction of low-cost housing within the context of the program for
housing finance, considering the following aspects of primary relevance:
1.    The establishment of territorial reserves, adequate and serviceable for
the construction of housing, in the urban areas of the state, to guarantee a
sufficient supply of land at reasonable pricee.
2.   The transfer of an ample stock of land to the private sector, through
sales of the governxment's territorial reserves to private investors and
developers, within a scheue which avoids hoarding and establishes a taxing
system to avoid speculation.
3.   *The elimination of the requirements pertinent to urban development or to
construction which increase the costs of the development of sites and/or the
construction of homes.
4.    The timely processing of permits and licenses, for land development and
subdivision, as well as for the construction and titling of housing.
5.    The reduction of charges for taxes, permits, licenses, rights,
cooperation and honoraria which affect the developer-contractor and the home-
buyers, thereby avoiding the use of housing development as the [primary] basis
for taxation.
6.    The obtaining of financing, through external and internal credit, which
permits loans at reasonable rates and conditions.
7.    Preferential treatment Zor the construction and financing of lower-cost
housing projects, with the objective of benefiting low income families.
I The complete FOVI model agreement, in both Spanish and its English
translation, is available in the Project Files.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5A
Page 2 of 5
8.    The stimulation of economic activity and the generation of employment in
the state.
9.    The avoidance of the developmetnt of irregular settlements.
Clauses
In accordance with the previous sections, the parties consent to the
following:
FIRST.- "The State Government" will put together territorial reserves for the
construction of housing in cities of more than 100,000, and in those of lesser
population where it is so justified, having carried out the appropriate
topographical surveys, such that the said reserves approximate an area equal
to at least 20S of the metropolitan area.
SECOND.- "The State Government" will offer the territorial reserves to private
developers and contractors of housing, from the moment that said reserves are
established, through direct sales, auctions or joint ventures, at prices which
permit the preferential constructions at low cost; the sale prices of the
"State Government" sites should recover, at the least, the costs of
acquisition, at market prices, and of urbanization and earth works, in order
to recapitalize the government institutions in charge of such activities.
THIRD.- In such cases where "the State Government" promotes the construction
of housing in association with individual developers and contractors through
joint-ventures in which "the State Government" supplies the land, the
developer-contractors will be responsible, in turn, for the urbanization and
earthworks, development, construction, allocation and sales of the housing, as
well as obtaining the necessary financing, leaving "the state government" with
the risk of project costs limited by the value of the land in question.
FOURTH.- "FOVI" will offer to "the State Government" technical assistance and
advice on the feasibility of the land subject to incorporation in the
territorial reserves for housing; and also on the signing of agreements and
formation of joint-ventures with individual developers and contractors.
FIFTH.- Within the space of two years "the State Government" will review and
bring up to date all its d(tecrees and regulations regarding subdivision,
urbanization and construction, with the objective of facilitating the
development of housing programs within the context of the program for housing
finance, taking into account the following aspects:
A.    Fix a minimum lot size of 90 square meters for starter housing.
B.    Deignaste a minimum road width of 7 meters for secondary ways.
C.    Permit the construction of buildings of six stories, starting at ground
level, without elevators.
D.    Permit the installation of elevators with hand-operated, non-automatic
doors.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
E.    Require a maximum of 10 of total saleable project area for green space&
or community areas.
F.    Require no donations of works or land above those expressly stipulated
in the Law Regarding Human Settlements, which, in any case, may not exceed a
total of 152 of the project area.
G.    Permit no construction of buildings in areas designated for green spaces
or community use.
H.   Make all decrees and regulations clear and precise, in order to avoid
ambiguities and confusion which make it difficult for developers and
contractors to estimate the time and costs implicit in developing housing
projects.
I.   Revise and bring up to date the laws concerning property held in
condominium, so that it takes into account the different types of condominia
in existence and reinforces the cooperation between condominia. At the same
time, decentralize, insofar as possible, the faculty to authorize said
properties.
J.   Eliminate whatever duplication of bureaucratic processes between state
and municipal authorities now exists.
K.    Promote separate legislations regarding housing projects, which would
give them a special treatment different from those of ordinary sub-divisions.
L.    Promote the revision of the by-laws concerning the powers of notary
publics to adopt the honoraria recommended by the National College of Notary
Publics for application to social Interest housing.
M.   Permit commercial banks to register collateral for the approval of
individual credits.
N.   In cases where it may be required, present to the legislature the legal
initiatives which may be necessary to produce the fulfillment of this
agreement.
SLXTH.- "FOVI", will advise its staff as to the standards, criteria and
recommendations necessary for technical approval of the housing projects which
are candidates for FOVI finan.%ing, and will promote ways to simplify the same.
SEVENTH.- "The State Government" will promote greater ease and speed in the
processing of construction permits, and verifications of sites through lot
surveys, within the context of its local development plans, as requested by
agents of the private sector in housing construction.
EIGHTH.- "The State Government" will request of the corresponding authorities,
a reduction In the time allowed for the issuance of permits and licenses for
housing subdivisions and for connections to aqueduct and sewer networkst and
that a maxlmum of thirty calendar days be set to reply in writing to requests
for such permits and licenses, including therein the approval or rejection of
the request, and, in the case of the latter, the reasons for the decision.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5A
Page 4 of 5
NINTH.- 'The State Government" itself, or through the agency responsible, will
establish a maximum of fifteen calendar days in which to receive a.ad accept
notice of completion of a construction project.
TENTH.- "The State Government" will provide "FOVI" with information regarding
the issuance of permits and licenses for construction and completion of works,
on a quarterly basis, in order to put together a set of teliable indicators
concerning the evolution of housing construction in the state.
ELEVENTH.- "The State Government" will promote standardization of bureaucratic
requirements and processes, formats for requests, rules, policies and criteria
applicable to subdivision and development of lots and housing construction,
among the different manicipalities of the state.
TWELFTH.- "FOVI" will simplify and make easier the requirements for
registration of developers and the issuance of technical approvals for
projects, setting a maximum time of seven calendar days for the acceptance or
rejection of requests for the same.
THIRTEENTH.- "The State Government" will establish a plan and time frame
specifying the gradual reduction in charges for licenses, taxes and rights for
subdivision, construction, registry of mortgages, and rights of sale of
buildings, within two years time, and to the point where the costs of said
concepts represent at most 4Z of the sales price of the housing. In the case
of housing costing less than 130 minrmum salaries, the same costs shall be
reduced to 22. And to this effect, the necessary legal measures shall be
taken.
FOURTEENTH.- "The State Government", with financial and technical support and
assistance from "FOVI", will initiate the computerization of a public registry
of deeds, within a maximum time frame of eighteen months, covering the
principle cities of the state, authorizing the notary publics to plug into the
computerized registry. In o.-der to carry out said project, "FOVI" will
develop the respective pre-feasibility studies.
FIFTEENTH.- "The State Government' will authorize the registry of home
mortgages in terms of minimum salaries, so that the housing financed does not
figure in terms of principal or of refinancing of interest. In cases in which
the bank in question prefers to register deeds in monetary terms, the housing
financed under the program for housing finance, will be exempt from such
requirements.
SIXTEENTH.- Insofar as the increased supply of housing reduces the pressure
and costs of rentals, the possibility of a gradual liberalization of the rents
will be studied, with the final goal of stimulating more private sector
investment in the construction of rental housing.
SEVENTEENTH.- "FOVI" will channel its resources, giving preference to housing
costing less than 100 minimum salaries as established for the Federal
District, through auctions which distribute the right to financing according
to the demand from developers and contractors.
EIGHTEENTH.- The parties promise to undertake the following:



55 -                             ANNEX 5A
Page 5 of 5
A.    To provide the information needed to fulfill the terms of this agreement
within the time frames required.
B.    To review and evaluate together the actions taken and progress made
toward th'z rulfillment of commitments derived from this agreement, on a
quarterly basis.
C.    To make known the commitments and undertakings agreed to in this
document so that they can serve the interests of the federal, state and
municipal authorities, as well as those of the commercial banks, developers
and contractors of housing projects.
D.    To undertake forthwith all actions and measures necessary for this
agreement to become effective.
NINETEENTH.- This agreement will become effective on the same date as its
signing and may be nullified by either of the parties subject to written
communication given thirty days notice.
TWENTIETH.- This agreement will be published in the Official State Gazette



- 56 -
ANNEX 5B
MEXICO
HOUSING MARRET DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
List of Mexican States and Signature Status of FOVI Deregulation
Agreements
(As of May, 1992)
ACUASCALIEA(      (AGS)                 X
BAJA CALIFORNIA (BC)                                                   _ ___
BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR tBCS)                                           X
CAM}CHE (CAMP)                                                      X
COAEVIA (COAH)               _X
COLIHA (COL)                            X
CHIAPAS (CHIP)                          %            ___
CHIHUAHUA (CHIS)                    .                               X
| EDERAL DISTRICT (DI)                                               X
DURANGO (DUR)                                                       X
GUANAJUATO (GTO)                                                    X
GUERRERO (CRO)                                                      X
HIDALGO (HID)                                                       X
JALISCO (JAL)                                                       X              |
MEXICO STATE (NEX)                      x
MICHOACAN (MICH)                        X               _
MORELOS (MOR)                                                       X
NAYARIT (NAY)                           X
NUHVO LEON (NLEON)                                                  X
OAX&CO (OAX)                                                        X
PUEBLA (PUEB)                                                      _
QUERETARO (QTO)             ___                                     X
QUINTANA ROO (QROO)                     X
SAN LUIS POTOSI (SLP)                                               X
SuNmLOA (SIM&)                          X
SONORA (SONO)                                                       X
TAJASCO (TABS)              ___ _X_______x
TAMAULIPAS (TANA)                                                   X
TLAXCALA (TLAX)                                                     X
VERACRUZ (VCRUZ)                        X
ZACATECAS (ZACA)                        X
TOTALS U1                                            21



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOVI Regulatory Cost Survey for 1991
Comments on Survey Results
Regulatorv Costs are Significant
1.    In December 1991 FOVI requested builders who had successfully bid for
FOVI's funds to report on the incidence of approximately 30 regulatory costs
incurred in constructing houses. Even though many builders did not reply, and
many replies received from a complex 4 page questionnaire were incomplete,
these surveys show that in some states regulatory costs cotld amount to over
232 of the sales price of low cost homes.
Initial Survey Conclusions
2.    The replies from the 1991 surveys were not complete or reliable enough
to determine accurately all regulatory costs in any given state. The survey
showed difference between municipalities within a state, and differences even
within a municipality. Many costs are levied by municipalities. However,
the survey did show the following:
a.    There are numerous regulatory costs: Annex 6A lists 30 regulatory
costs (1991 survey) paid by builders and the new homeowners and
charged by governmental entities and notaries. Other FOVI studies
indicate that there could be as many as 50 separate regulatory
cost items related to the construction, financing and transfer of
housing.
b.    Not all costs are significant:  Sixteen of the 30 regulatory costs
comprise less than 122 of the totals reported. The 14 largest,
the costs FOVI will track in future surveys, are compiled in Annex
6B.
c.    Many costs are significant:  In the 1991 survey, 8 of the 21
states showed regulatory costs (the 14 largest) exceeding 122 of
the sales price of the house (Annex 6B).
d.    Each cost is extremely variable:  The reported high for almost all
costs is often 3 times the reported average and over 100 times the
reported lows.
e.    The potential for cost reduction through successful reduction in
regulatory costs merits a coordinated campaign and thorough
information gathering.
ARtreements with State Governments
3.    As of December 1991, FOVI had signed deregulation agreements (see Annex
5B) with 11 states. In due course, FOVI expects the remaining 21 state



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
governments to sign similar agreements. These agreements express the state's
intention to reduce the cost of low cost housing through regulatory cost
reductions or elimination, and through the establishment of land reserves for
low cost housing near large cities, and the limitation of green and common
areas and lot sizes.
4.    Each signed agreement receives publicity at a signing ceremony attended
by representatives of associations of developers and architects, the state
housing authority and others related to housing. All receive copies of the
agreement and FOVI officials have noticed increased interest in low cost
housing following the signing of at least four agreements.
5.    Following the signing of agreements with Michoacan, Veracruz, Colima and
Zacatecas, FOVI officials have noticed positive developments. All four states
announced the establishment of territorial reserves. Several developers have
expressed interest in participating in FOVI's program in these states and have
informally reported to FOVI the beginnings of regulatory relief.
Reduction of Leaal Fees for Low Cost Housing
6.    Notary fees for drafting sales agreements is one of the top five
expenses in low cost housing. The 1991 survey showed that this cost was 7.3Z
of the sales price in the state of Chihuahua. SEDUE is promoting a national
agreement to lower these fees to less than 3Z for low cost housing selling for
less than 130 monthly minimum wages. As of December 1991, only one entity
(Mexico's Federal District) has signed but more are expected to sign in the
future.
Monitorina Deregulation Proaress
7.    FOVI has monitoring procedures in place, drawing upon information
provided through the deregulation agreements being signed with states and the
regulatory cost surveys. With respect to the state agreements, FOVI will
collect information every six months about the state's compliance. Also, FOVI
is implementing procedures to encourage developers to report regulatory
changes and to receive periodic reports from the state housing authorities.
Moreover, SEDUE keeps track of how many states have agreed to the national
standardization of legal fees relating to low cost housing sales agreements,
which it will provide to FOVI.
Publicizing Survey Results
8.    As soon as FOVI receives more reliable data, it would become a clearing-
house for the nation's progress in deregulation cost reductions. Under the
proposed Bank project, POVI would be required to publish annually its
regulatory survey results.
FOVI Plans to Improve Future Surveys
9.    The survey has been simplified to two pages, one page of 11 costs paid
by the doveloper with supplementary information on lot size, obligatory green
area and time required to secure the building permit, and a second page of 2
costs paid by the prospective homeowner. FOVI intends to establish an ongoing



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
survey of these costs by requesting the financing banks to report the
information in two stages. The costs paid by the b'dlder are known six months
after the auction when the construction credit is signed. The costs paid by
the homeowner are known when the homes are sold. Initial talks with the
BANCOMER, the largest bank in Mexico, revealed a willingness to help FOVI
compile information on regulatory costs. FOVI is considering amending the
financing agreements with the commercial banks to include a clause that would
obligate the banks to report this information. The regulatory cost
information reported in this manner is likely to be more accurate.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6A
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regulatory Costs in FOVI Surveys
Costs Selected for Future FOVI Survels:1
1.   Land acquisition tax
2.   Property registry fees
3.   Project building permit
4.   Water connection (land)
5.   Water drainage fees
6.   Elect. connection fees
7.   Donated construction
8.   Construction license
9.   Water connection (bldg.)
10. Condo. registry fee
11. Property transfer tax
12. Property registry fee
13. Legal fees (developer)
14. Legal fees homebuyer
Other Regulatory Costs (Not Included in Future FOVI Surveys):
Paid by Builder
15. Lien release certificate
16. Non-indebtedness certificate
17. Property registry certificate
18. Property tax
19. Land use authorization
20. Municipal supervision fee
21.  Property boundry fee
22. Registry fee
23. Sanitation certificate
24. Land use study
25. State land use license
26. Occupancy certificate
27. Work completion notice
Paid by Homebuver
28. Lien release certificate
29. Non-indebtedness certificate
30. Registry certificate
31. Other beneficiary
1/   In the 1991 FOVI Survey, the first 14 regulatory cost items listed above
represented 88Z of the total regulatory costs paid by developers and
homebuyers. The remaining 12Z of the total costs were accounted for by
items 15 through 31.



- 61                                                      ANNEX  6B
?age 1 of 3
NEXICO: HOUSING MARKET 0EVELOPNEtT PROJECT
DECEMSER 1991 !URVEY OF REGULATORY COSTS (PERCENT Of SALES PRICE)
.................................................................
(costs selected for future surveys)
State  1/                        21   B.C.M.   B.C.S.  Chiapas    Chih.    Coah.   Caoll     Durango
No. replies                      56        2        1         3        4         4         1        2
Goverrmntal costs:   No. cities                         37        2         1        1         4        3         1         1
* Avg    High    Low
PoId by developer                    -          -     -        -     .    -      -                          *.-
Land acquisetion tax            0.42X   1.02X  0.05X    0.66X               0.44X               0.11l
Property regfstry fees          0.23%   2.14X  0.00    0.07    0.35X    0.05X    0.04X    0.25X    0.01X    2.14X
Project building permit         0.23X   1.54X  0.01X    0.171    0.081    0.31X    0.201    0.192    0.222    1.54X
Water conrection (tend)          1.63X   6.76X  0.06%    1.00%    2.83U    3.192    0.681    0.281    0.88%    0.061
Water drainage fes               0.62X   1.66X  0.062    0.71X                                            0.882    0.091
Elect. coriection fees           0.63X   2.74x  0.01X    0.08%    3.30X    0.01X    0.05       0.09X    0.04X    0.092
Donted construction              0.571   2.15X  0.012    0.96X    0.01X               0.321    0.10%    1.461    0.06X
Contruction license              0.182   0.59X  0.022    0.161    0.51X    0.081    0.161    0.071    0.021
Water co.wtetion (bldg.)         1.02%   5.911  0.02%    0.083    1.96X    0.26X    5.911    0.91X    0.331    0.03X
Cordo, registry fee              0.15X   0.58%  0.00    0.082                                  0.03X              0.11X
Avg, rax, min each cost          5.68X  25.101  0.23X
.;...   ;....    .....  .....  . . .....   .....  . . .....   ----- .   ..... .... .. ........... .. ........... ..
Total by state                   4.56X  12.44X  0.33X    3.971    6.04X    4.34X    7.361    2.03X    3.82X    4.12X
~~~~~.....           .....  .    .....  .....  . . .....   ......... ...... .................. ...........
Paid by homebuyer-
Property transfer tax            3.27X  10.00   0.031    2.591              6.33X    0.991    3.971    0.65X    0.03X
Property registry fee            0.94X   2.24X  0.182    0.682    0.671    1.381    0.30X       1.35X    0.22X    2-24X
..... %..;.. ... .........
Avg, ax, min each cost           4.21X  12.24X  0.21X
... .... ........... ....... ... ..W.................  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....
Total by state                   4.06X  11.15S  0.671    3.26X    0.671    7.71S    1.20X    5.31X    0.882    2.27X
. ....  .....  ......... 
Total goverrmnental:
Avg. mx  min "ech cost           9.901  37.341  0.44X    *..-      ...       ..      . ....     ....      ....
Total by state                   8.62X  18.771  2.67X    7.241    6.71X   12.05X    8.65X    7.351    4.701    6.391
....     .....  ....  .    .... . . ....    ....  .    ....    ....   .    ....   ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Notary fees:
Paid by developer                   0.332   1.35X  0.011    0.091    0.232    0.031    0.051    0.401    0.04X
Paid by homebwer                    2.851   7.321  0.26X    2.12X    5.75X    3.09M       7.32X    2.51X    4.311    0.982
Avg. max, min each cost          3.181   8.681  0.26X
3.122   7.381  0.301    2.21X    5.981    3.121    7.381    2.911    4.35X    0.98X
Totals:               w                 -      -     - --..-. ..  ....  ....  .. ..  ....   ....      ...      ....      . ....
Avg. wax, min each cost         13.08X  46.01S  0.70X
Total by state                     11.74X  23.16X  4.901    9.451   12.69X   15.17X   16.02X   10.25X    9.05X    7.381
Totals by person paying:
Devloper                            4.89X  13.80X  0.34X    4.06X    6.27X    4.36X    7.421    2.43S    3.86X    4.12Z
HsaeWer                             t6.91X  18.47X  0.932    5.391    6.421   10.811    8.611    7.021    5.18X    3.261
.............................. ......... ....... .....  .....  .....  ......  ....  ....
11.74X  23.16X  4.90X    9.45X   12.691   15.17X   16.02X   10.251    9.051    7.38S
_su    _ms  _ms            as     sas       sm.    ams         _U         as.       62
Howe types A and 31
1/ For abbreviation of state names, see Annex 5B.



ANNEX 6B
- 62-                                             Page 2 of 3
MEXICO: HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 1991 SURVEY OF REGULITORY COSTS (PERCENT OF SALES; PRICE)
,.................................................................
Ccosts setected for future surveys)
tate 1         Gteo.  Hidatlo  Jslfseo   Nexico   M.Le6n   Puebla    O.Roo      Oto.   S.L.P.  Sinaloa
No. reptles       5        1         1        5        6        2         1        1        8         1
Goverrmental costs:   No. cities         3        1         1        5        3        1         1        1        2         I
Paid by developer-                 -       -                   .....    .....    .....    ..... .-..         .....    ....
Land asquisit(on tax            0.102    0.05X    1.022    0.25X   0.20t    0.72X    0.78X                 0.392
property registry fees          0.09X    0.01X    0.16X    0.31X   0.11X    0.00X    0.06X    0.01X    0.06X
Project building permit         0.03X    0.48X    0.08X              0.05S              0.42X    0.01t    0.05X    0.182
Water conevctlon tland)          1.41X    0.34X    6.12              1.00X             2.36X    0.221    0.60X    0.12-
Water drainage fes              0.421    0.34S    1.03X               1.14X             o.8a8              0.06X    0." :
Elect. corvection fees          0.42X    2.74X    0.471    1.43X    0.081    l.1SX    2.33X    0.05X    0.24X    0.01-
Donated construction            0.091    0.271    0.86X               0.021    2.15X
Construction License .          0.14X    0.12Z    O.l5     0.141    0.051    0.592    0.152    0. 04X    0.331    0.29S
Water connection (bldg.)        0.721    C.902               2.11X   0.38X    0.96X    0.65X    0.022    0.181
Conrd. registry fee             0.58X    0.022    0.002    0.301    0.01X    0.25X
.....    .....  .  .....   .....  . . .....                               .....  . . ..... .............. ................... ..........
Totat by state                  4.022    S.26X    9.912    4.53X   3.032    5.832    7.611    0.33X    1.901    0.72-
.....    .....  .    .....  ..... . . .....            .....  . . .....   ................. ... .............. ..........
Paid by homebuyer-
Property transfer tax            2.09X    5.111    3.101    7.261    0.47X    1.14X   10.00X    5.191    0.482    2.34:
Property registry fee            0.18X    1.681    0.731    0.181    0.311    0.202    1.152    0.682    0.28X    1.08S
....     ....     ....     ....   .    ....   ....  .    ....    ....  .    ....   ........ ..... ..... ..... .....
Total by state                  2.261    6.79X    3.83X    7.431    0.77M    1.34X   11.15    5.871    0.762    3.42-
Total gov"rrmentas:
....           ...  . . ...     ....  .    ....    ....  .    ....   ....   .    .... ........ ..... ..... ....._.
Totat by state                  6.29X   12.06X   13.741   11.971   3.81X    7.17X   ¶8.77M    6.211    2.67X    4.132
..........       ..........._. ....  .._.....  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....  .....  ....
Notary fees:
Paid by developer                   C.34X    0.06X   0.64S    0.81X    1.351    0.05S    1.082    0.01X   0.15X
Poid by hamebuyer                   2.742    2.6TX    2.80X    2.281    2.75X    0.26X    3.32X    3.26X   2.09M    1.65S
....     ....  .    ....             ....  .  .. .... _    .._. .  ... . . _ ....  .......................
3.07?    2.73X    3.44S    3.091    4.102    0.30X    4.40X    3.26X   2.24X    1.652
Totols:                                        .... * ---  ----            ....     ....      ....     ....      ....     ....
Total by state                      9.36X   14.79X   17.182   15.06X    7.911    7.48?   23.161    9.47?    4.90X    5.782
Totals by person paying:
Developtr                           4.36X    5.321   10.54X    5.341    4.380    5.8tx   8.69X    0.34X    2.05X    0.722
Nomebwyer                           5.001    9.471    6.631    9.7       3.521    1.601   14.471    9.131    2.851    5.06S
9.361   14.791   17.16S   15.06X   7.91X   7.481   23.16X    9.47X   4.90S    5.7S2
mu  mmu    mammauu   amoosueu                      ama      maa       mma      m
House types A  nd 31
For abbreviations of  state names,  see Annex  SB.



-63-                                                       6B
Page 3 of 3
NEXICO: HOUSING NARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 1991 SUVRY OF  GEGLATORY COSTS (PERCENT OF SALES PRICE)
.................................................................
(costs selected for future surveys)
State 1/   Sonors    Tl4x.   Vera.    Yuca.
No.r.plies        2        2         2        2
Goverrmentsl costs:   No. cities         2        1        1         1
Paid by developer-                 -  -
LNd acquisition tax              0.34X             0.37X  0.43X
Property registry fees           0.36X                      0.011
Project butlding permft          0.04X  0.10               0.04X
Water conmectfin (tend)          0.56   O.58     6.762    1.94%
Water drainag  fee               0.14X    0.58X    1.66X
Elect. ceoectian fees                              2.15X    0.31X
Donated construction
Construction licene              0.202    0.171    0.10O    0.141
Water connectfon (bldg.)         0.85X 1.162    1.41X   0.582
Condo. registry fee
Totat by state                   2.49X 2.59X  12.44    3.44X
Paid by homebuyer-
Property traufer tax             3.18X 4.00    3.79          2.792
Property registry fee            1.46X 2.001    1.57X   1.392
Total by state                    .64X 6.00X  5.362    4.18X
Total goverrmntals
Total by state                   7.13    8.591   17.812    7.631
Notary fees:
Paid by developer                   0.07X                       0.27X
Paid by hinubuyer                   2.842    2.10t    2.942    2.021
Totals:                               ....     ....      ....     ....
Total by state                     10.041   10.691   20.13X   9.92X
Totals by person paying:
loptr                               2.54     2.591   12.442    3.72X
lambebr                             748X      .10Z   8.301    6.202
10.0-4   10.692   20.752  9.92M
NUSe types A  nd 01
1    For abbreviations of state  names, see Annex 5B.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Federal Government Housing Sector Policy Declaration
With Respect to a World Bank Loan to FOVI'
I.    NATIONAL HOUSING PROGRAM
With a view to establish the framework under which the World Bank would
provide a new loan to the Fondo de Operaci6n y Financiamiento Bancario a la
Vivienda (FOVI) to finance low-cost housing, the Mexican Federal Government has
prepared  the  following  housing  sector policy  declaration.    This  policy
declaration proposes the increase of the supply of housing on the basis of market
mechanisms that promote the expanded involvement of the private sector (banks and
developers) in this field.
11.   RECENT REFORMS IN THE HOUSING SECTOR
A.    FINANCIAL SECTOR
The following reforms should be highlighted:
1.    In order to deregulate the banking system, in April 1989 the Government
eliminated  all mandatory  lending requirements  for commercial  banks
including those which applied to housing. Also, interest rate controls
were abolished.
2.    In 1989, in order to assign its resources in a transparent manner to the
most efficient developers, FOVI instituted a public funds auction system.
This system (which awards the rights to FOVI funds on a competitive basis
to the highest bidders) allows FOVI to capture the economic benefits
(rents) that are derived from the provision of its financing. Also in
1989. FOVI ceased making construction loans to developers, which had
carried with them preferential terms, as commercial banks were willing to
make such loans at market rates. Both of these measures have strengthened
FOVI financial position. In addition, in 1990 and 1991, FOVI reduced its
funding for higher-cost housing loans, as the banking system was
penetrating this segment of the market with its own resources, which is
raising indirectly the mortgage interest rate charged for lower income
housing financed by the banks and FOVI together.
3.    In  1990  the  Mexican  Constitution  was  amended  to  permit  the  re-
privatization of the commercial banking system; based on this amendment,
a law was passed to allow the creation of financial groups comprised of
diversified financial services intermediaries; this legislation takes into
X This document is an informal translation from the Spanish original which was
presented to the Bank at negotiationo for the proposed loan.



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
account the international experience in this area and will contribute
significantly to the modernization the nation's banking system.
4.    To promote both commercial bank and homebuilder participation in the
financing of low-cost FOVI houses, several measures have been adopted such
as the rechanneling of resources originally set aside for higher-cost
houses (Type B) toward low-cost housing (Type A); the modification of FOVI
regulations to allow the financing of smaller and unfinished housing units
and urbanized lots; the offering of more flexibility to developers in the
use and allocation of FOVI financinig among different housing categories;
and the increasing of the amount of commissions granted to banks which
administer the FOVI loans.
5.    Finally, with a view to increase the availability of commercial bank
credit to the private sector, in late 1991 the Government eliminated the
liquidity coefficient on banking assets which established the percentage
of assets that had to be held in the form of government securities.
As a result of the above actions, the banking system can now count on both
market incentives as well as more long-term resources to support expanded lending
for housing. In 1990, as compared to 1989, commercial bank lending (with their
own funds) for housing increased by 1402, and in 1991 this lending increased by
an additional 50Z over the 1990 level.
FOVI operations have played an important role in expanding banking
operations in the housing sector, as follows:
a.    by providing long-term resources to banks, and providing a basis for this
sector to develop its own mortgage financing schemes;
b.    by  establishing  new mortgage  schemes,  which  allow  lenders  to  set
repayments in terms of inflation and the minimum wage thereby ernsuring
improved loan recovery and lowering the probability of default.  The FOVI
mortgage instrument has provided the banks with an example which they can
modify and adopt when making mortgage loans financed with their own
resources;
c.    by allowing banks, after they have secured the rights to FOVI financing,
to substitute their own resources if the credit risks are deemed
acceptable;
d.    by allowing banks to enter the low-income segment of the housing market
with FOVI resources, which they might not do with their own resources
given the implied difficulties, uncertainties and lower returns associated
with this type of lending;
o.    by informing the banks about the profitability of low-cost housing.
through the significant bids placed by developers at FOVI's funds
auctions.
Tno success of FOVI's program to induce greater banking participation has
recently resulted in lower demand for FOVI resources since housing developers
have shifted their efforts toward housing of higher value which the banks are



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
willing to finance with their own funds, given the higher profitability on this
type of housing.
Two additional factors have influenced the lower demand for FOVI resources,
especially for Type A housing: the lack of an adequate retail banking network to
help potential buyers of that type of housing and the reduction in real terms of
the minimum salary, which has forced housing specifications over time to become
more restrictive, to the degree of competing with informal housing, which has
limited the interest of private homebuilders in producing this type of housing.
B.    HOUSING SECTOR
The following should be noted:
1.    Improved operation of all federal housing agencies: FONHAPO has modified
its operating regulations; INFONAVIT has increased its collection of
payments from companies and loan recovery; and FOVISSSTE has created a
repayment scheme in terms of salartes similar to that of other agencies,
has agreed to co-finance part of its program with FOVI. and has stopped
the direct financing of housing construction.
2.    FICAPRO (a Federal District housing finance agency) has demonstrated the
feasibility of its financing program for the upgrading inner-city
neighborhooda and the remodeling and sale of apartment units, especially
those with that are subject to rent controls.
3.    The  "Housing  Loans"  program  has  successfully  supported  self-help
construction for the poor through the provision of building materials and
technical assistance administered by local housing agencies.
4.    An  administrative  simplification  program  ("Ventanilla  Unica")  was
developed with the public housing agencies, and 50 municipal offices have
been opened to speed up the processing of housing permits and
authorizations.
5.    SEDUE has signed agreemients with the National Mexican Notary Association,
the Notary Association of the Federal Disteict and the State Notary
Associations to establish uniform fees, reduced fees for low-cost housing
operations and exemptions in the case of the smaller loans.
6.    There has been progress in the integration of territorial reserves, with
734 hectares constituted during 1989-1990.
7.    With a view to assess the different housing taxes,  regulations and
administrative processes, in 1990 FOVI undertook a first survey among
developers. which indicated a very high level of regulation.   Thus,
beginning in February 1991, FOVI began entering into agreements with State
Governments, aimed of reducing regulatory burdens on housing development
and sales.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
III. DEW POLICY GUIDELINES
The experience obtained during the first three years of the current
Administration underscores the need to emphasize during the next few years some
of the main aspects included in the 1990-1994 National Housing Program, aimed at
creating, on the one hand, a framework that allows the private sector (banks and
developers) to make a larger contribution in solving the acute housing problem
faced by the country, and on the other, a more efficient and better coordinated
operation between the different public housing agencies, toward which end the
Federal Government will take measures to.
1.    Induce commercial banks to actively participate in financing housing for
the middle- and low-income population with their own resouzces and those
from FOVI.  As the channeling of financing to lower income homebuyers
through the banking system could be more efficient and transparent than
through direct funding by public institutions, the Government may provide
subsidies to encourage commercial banks to target its lending increasingly
to lower income households, if such subsidies are justified and cost
effective.  In this regard, FOVI will concentrate its resources on the
lowest income groups, while at the same time preserving its financial
self-sufficiency.   Also, efforts will be made to further connect the
mortgage programs of the commercial banks with other segments of the
housing finance system and to develop new markets and types of
intermediation for housing finance.
2.    Liberate the urban land market.  As part of a program to modernize the
agricultural sector, Article 27 of the Constitution was amended to, among
other things, allow common land trar,sfers, which will substantially
increase the supply of urban land, making it possible to build low-cost
housing as well as to avoid the proliferation of irregular settlements.
The modifications to Article 27 of the Constitutions will establish a
legal framework which permits the expansion of a free urban land market,
at the same time favoring orderly urban development.
3.    Attain the modernization of the housing funds supported by the compulsory
saving system, integrate their operations with the rest of the financial
markets, and improve the cost recovery on the mortgages financed by these
funds. In order to do this, in February 1992, Congress approved a new Law
to reform the operations of INFONAVIT, specifically with regard to: the
establishment of individual bank accounts for each rightful claimant where
mandatory employer contributions will be deposited; transparent loan
allc ations through an explicit formula; collection of real positive
inte.est rates on allocated loans and appropriate loan amounts based on
the credit holder's ability to pay; loan allocation to builders through
auctions; and a ban on land purchases by the Institute for housing
construction. These actions abolish the corporative promotions scheme,
recov r the real value of loans, and prevent deterioration of the value of
contributions of rightful claimants, the latter being assigned to the
Retirement Savings System. The Government intends to extend these reforms
to FOVISSSE, and in general, to concentrate the financing of the payroll
funds on the poorer segment of the housing market by giving emphasis to
the expansion, improvement, and remodeling of the existing housing



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
inventory, and by promoting higher volumes of credit for the purchase of
used housing.
4.    Improve the cost recovery of FONHAPO, while orientin& its operations more
toward non-salaried households and in support of housing solutions of
lower costs than those financed by FOVI and the banking system.
5.    Encourage State and Municipal Governments to make less burdensome the
legal framework regulating urban development, construction and housing
titling. It should be noted that although the Federal Government intends
to deregulate the housing sector, the prerogative in this field is
exclusively with State (and Municipal) governments, thus neither the
Federal Government nor FOVI have the authority to legally rule on such
deregulation; they can only try to convince and persuade through the use
of market mechanisms (such as the FOVI auctions) to achieve this
objective.
6.    Promote higher investment  in rental housing, promoting before State
Governments the reform of control regulations, ordinances and legal
procedures which deincentivate investment.
7.    Improve the reliability and congruity of information on the housing market
under a self-financing scheme.
IV. HECHANISNS TO IMPLEHENT THE NEW STRATEGY
1.    To promote housing financing by the banking system for the majority of the
population, through the development of a broad retail banking network, the
Government amended the Retirement Savings System (RSS) and the INFONAVIT
Law to provide for employers to depo3it workers' contributions in
individual accounts, thus promoting the mobilization of long-term saving.
Furthermore, deposits comprised within the RSS may be used by the banks to
grant housing financing. Also, the Government passed a law to promote
Savings and Loan Institutions, whicn will help in attracting funds and
granting loans to the low-income segment of the housing market. At the
same time, as part of the negotiations with the United States and Canada
over a Free Trade Agreement, the Government is contemplating the
incorporation of the financial sector, with the aim of opening it to
foreign competition which would also induce the development of the retail
banking business.
2.    To expand the supply of urban land based on the recent amendment to
Article 27 of the Constitution, the Congress is currently amending the
laws on human settlements and housing.   For its part, BANOBRAS will
implement a scheme to finance urban infrastructure through the promotion
of self-financing projects.   The Federal Government will sell (to the
private sector) its territorial reserves that are suitable for housing, in
accordance with the rules established under the amendment to Article 27 of
the Constitution.
3.    To help generate an increasing supply of housing for the contributors of
the housing funds of the compulsory savings system (i.e., INFONAVIT and
FOVISSSTE), FOVI through its funds auction system will guarantee



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
developers that long-term financing needed to sell such houses would be
available, in the event that the houses are sold to homebuyers who are not
contributors to the compulsory saving system.
4.    To make housing regulation more transparent and less costly, FOVI will
continue signing agreements with State Governments, with the full support
of the Ministries of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and of the Urban
Development and Environment (SEDUE). In this task, other sector public
agencies will provide assistance within the framework of the
administrative simplification strategy promoted by the Undersecretary of
Housing in SEDUE.
5.    To promote private investment in the purchase of rental housing, the
FICAPRO program will be implemented so that it serves as a model for State
Governments on the possibility of solving, through this procedure, the
problems originated by deteriorated old housing that usually go hand in
hand with frozen rent housing units.
6.    To improve information about the housing sector, efforts will be made to
assist the private sector in developing more comprehensive information and
statistical systems for the housing market.



-70 -                                 ANNEX SA
Page I of 3
MEXICO
HOUSINIG MARTRET REFORM PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Study of Policy Optlons for the Creation of a Secondary Mortgage
Market within the Mexican Housing Finance System
Background
Mexico has a seriovts housirg deficit, estimated at about six million
units. Moreover, it appears that only about 3 percent of Mexico's gross
national product is being devoted to housing -- a relatively low figure by
internatlonal standards. While a variety of factors are probably responsible
for this situation, one factor may be shortcomings arnd gaps in the housing
financing system. At present, the primary mortgage market does not appear to
be very large in terms of the volume of resources mobilized or the number of
mortgage lenders.  Moreover, there is no seccndary mortgage market.
Because a seconiary mortgage market would become viable when long-term
sources of savings become substantial, and because such a market could better
integrate the housing finance system to the rest of the financial market, the
Government has indicated interest in the study of the potential development of
a secondary mortgage market.
Obiectives
The study has two primary objectives. The first is to determine the
feasibility of developing a secondary mortgage market and the form that such a
market would likely take. The second is to evaluate alternative roles that
the Government might play in facilitating the development of a secondary
mortgage markst and assuring that its operation would be consistent with the
public interest. With respect to this second objective, the study should
address the following questions:
1.   Should the Government become involved in providing guarantees for
secondary mortgage market instruments, if guarantees are required by the
market?
2.   Are there any existing laws, regulations, or supervisory procedures that
repre6ont unreasonable barriers to the development of a secondary
mortgage market, and if so, how can these barriers be removed?;
3.   Are there any uew laws, regulations or supervisory procedures that are
needed to protect the public interest from potential adverse effects
from the development of a secondary mortgage market?;
4.   Are there additional data pertaining to the housing sector mortgage
markets that the government could provide that would significantly
improve the functioning of these sectors?
While the primary objective is the study of the potential development of
a secondary mortgage market, the study would also benefit from an independent



- 71 -
ANNEX 8A
Page 2 of 3
analysis of the existing primary mortgage market, which could be carried out
by a consultant. This independent study could help to establieh the linkage
between the primary and secondary mortgage markets and indicate the general
economic setting in which the secondary market would have to develop. The
study of the primary market also might identify certain shortcomings in this
market that could be addressed in the future policy context of the secondary
market study.
Description
In order to accomplish its primary objectives, the study should provide
answers to the following specific questions:
1.   Why has a secondary mortgage market not yet developed in Mexico?  What
have been the major impediments?
2.   What are tha potential advantages and disadvantages in the creation of a
secondary mortgage market? For example, what effects would the
development of such a market have on the liquidity of mortgage
instruments and the range of mortgage instruments available for housing?
Would the effects likely be different on various sectors of the housing
finance market -- for example, the high-income housing sector relative
to the low-income housing sector? What effects would the development of
the market have on the risk exposure of market participants (both
issuers and investors) and possibly the Government?
3.   Would the creation of a secondary mortgage market more likely take the
form of the sale of packages of individual mortgage loans or the
creation of mortgage-backed securities? What would be the respective
implications of each approach?
4.   If the secondary market is more likely to take the form of the creation
of mortgage-backed securities (as presently appears to be the case),
would such securities require the issuer to guarantee the payment of
principal and interest on the underlying mortgages in order to make the
securities acceptable in the market?
5.   If mortgage-backed securities are likely to be guaranteed, what
institutions would be most likely to provide the guarantee? How large
would be the cost of such guarantees?
6.   What institutions would likely be major originators of an investors in
mortgage-backed securities?
7.   Besides brokers, what institutions might make a secondary market in
mortgage-backed securities?
8.   If mortgage-backed securities require a guarantee, should this guarantee
be provided by the private sictor of by some Government entity?
Wouldn't having the Government provide the guarantee require an
additional credit analysis of those mortgages backing the security
compared to having the guarantee provided by a private sector entity
that originates the mortgage loans?



- 72 -
Page 3 if 3
9.   Are there any existing laws, regulations or supervisory practices
(particularly one limiting asset acquisitions by institutions) that
would unnecessarily impede the development of a secondary mortgage
market? If so, how can these undue impediments be removed?
10. In order to insure that markets operate efficiently, what additional
information relating to housing and housing finance should be made
available to participants in the primary and secondary mortgage markets?
11. In order to give potential purchasers of mortgage-backed securities
better information on the riskiness of individual issues, should the
Government require mortgage-backed securities, as well as their
guarantors, to be rated by a qualified rating agency? Would the
usefulness of this information exceed the costs of obtain'.ng a rating?
12. How would guarantees issued by regulated entities to support mortgage-
backed securities be treated by supervisory authorities in evaluating
the entity's risk exposure and capital adequacy? What changes, if any,
are needed in existing supervisory policies or procedures to assure that
the issuance of such guarantees would not adversely affect the soundness
of these regulated institutions?
13. What regulatory approval processes would be required in issuing
mortgage-backed securities, and would these processes involve any
duplication? Do the benefits from the approval processes exceed the
costs? Are there any legitimate regulatory concerns that are not
covered?
14. Based on the answers to toe previous questions, what specific roles
should the government play in the development of a secondary market?
What specific policies should be implemented?
Actions and Timetable
FOVI and the Central Bank would prepare the secondary mortgage market
study and present the study results and discuss them with the Bank, by June
30, 1993.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8B
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Study on the Development of a Salary Index
For Adjusting Payments on FOVI Mortgages
BACKGROUND
1.  With the purpose of raising interest rates on FOVI credits to a level
compatible with the cost of funds in the context of high inflation, a mortgage
payment scheme indexed to the official minimum wage was established in 1984.
The introduction of this system allows lenders to obtain full recovery of
credit, in present value terms. It also adjusts a borrower's payments in line
with wages and the capacity to pay, and therefore should lead to lower level
of loan delinquencies. However, due to Government stabilization efforts
initiated in November 1987, the official minimum wage has deteriorated both in
real terms and in relation to wages in the manufacturing sector. This has
resulted in a lengthening of the repayment period of FOVI credits, and in a
deterioration in the maximum value of the FOVI houses financed relative to the
construction costs.
OBJECTIVES OF STUDY
2.   Based on salary informatioi. reported bimonthly by companies and self-
employed workers to the Social Security Mexican Institute (Instituto Mexicano
del Seguro Social - IMSS), FOVI will obtain data to calculate a new wage and
salary index. The index could serve as a basis to substitute for the minimum
wage in all FOVI credit calculations where this indicator is used.
3.   Additionally, and as a collateral result of the project, since the IMSS
registers the social security contributions for both permanent or temporary
positions, it will be possible to develop other indicators for worker wages,
the labor force and private sector employment, which would increase the
availability of labor statistics in the country.
4.   Since this information covers companies and self-employed workers from a
number of different subsectors and sectors of economic activity (e.g., mining,
manufacturing and services) throughout the country, the wage and salary
indicators which FOVI will develop will have national coverage and will
represent all major economic activity (with the exception of agriculture).
STUDY DEVELOPMENT
5.   The principal task will be to construct a wage and salary index based on
the following strategy:
a.   U3ing a sample of companies in the Capital Formation Survey of the
Bank of Mexico ("Encuesta de Formacion de Capital del Banco de
Mexico"), FOVI will request that the IMSS provide information on
wages and salaries corresponding to a pre-identified set of
positions in each company.



- 74 -
ANNEX 8B
Page 2 of 2
b.   For this pre-identified set, INSS would produce a historical series
starting in 1980. This approach will lead to the development of an
index which would respect the principle of constant quality. In
other words, it will eliminate bias due to personnel promotions or
technological changes by linking the wage and salary information to
permanent positions within the corporate structure.
c.   Following this approach, it will be possible to build a statistical
series of the salary index related to a position within the
company, according to the iollowing expression:
IS    _ Slxj, t1
Xj, ta  SoXJ, to
Where IS'j.t, is the index for the salary corresponding to position x
within the company J. with S, and So being the salaries paid for that
position during the base period (So) and the study period (S,).
6.   The wage and salary index for company J will be a simple average of the
indices for the positions within the company. The wage and salary index for
each subsector of economic activity will be the weighted average of the
indices of all the companies (weighted by the size of its staff) in that
subsector.
7.   The wage and salary index for each economic sector will be the sum of
the wage and salary indices of each subsector.  The weighing of each subsector
will be based on the industrial census and the service census which report the
staff employed in each subsector for the year in which the census took place.
8.   Using this information (wage indices by sector), general wage and salary
indices would be calculated.
9.   The sample will be btratified by income group, in order to calculate
salary indices for workers with income levels similar to those of the POVI
beneficiaries.
10. The periodicity of the index will be bimonthly, but a pessibility of a
monthly estimate will be considered. Also, due to the strong seasonality of
the index, a general sesaonally-adjusted index will be estimated.
AGENCY RESPONSIBLE
11.  FOVI together with the Central Bank of Mexico will be responsible for
preparing the study.
TIMETABLE
12. FOVI would complete a draft of the proposed study and present the
results to the Bank, by not later than June 30, 1993. By not later than
September 30. 1993, FOVI would prepare, and thereafter carry out, an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which takes into account the results of such
study.



- 75 -
ANNEX 8C
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
HCUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Study on Housing Market Information Requirements
Introduction
A competitive housing market requires that market actors have access to
relevant, timely, and reliable information. The less available or credible
the information the greater the uncertainty and risk, and therefore the cost
of committing capital or labor. In Mexico, as in all other countries, the
Government is a major source of information, and sets many of the requirements
for other providers as well. Information about the overall economy, about the
housing production and housing finance markets, and about government policies
and intentions is all central to private sector calculations, and is either
provided by government or by the private sector.
At present, there exist important gaps in the information collected and
published about Mexico's housing market either by the Government or private
firms. Specifically, there is a lack of information at the local level, which
is the one most useful for the private sector.
Objectives
The study's main goal is to prepare a plan to induce the private sector
to produce information about the housing market on a self-financing basis, so
that private market participants can have access to more reliable, consistent
and timely information on which to base their decisions.
Key Issues
1.   What types of information is currently being collected and publishing
about Mexico's housing market? For example, is info- mation availlable about
macroeconomic indicators, demographics. housing stocks, housing production,
average housing prices and sizes, construction costs, financial market
indicators, mortgage markets, etc.?
2.   How accurate, timely and consistent is the information currently
available about market conditions? How can it be improved?
3.   What gaps or overlaps of information about the housing market exist?
4.  How is the ex_ dting information currently being used, and how will
additional information likely be used, and by whom?
5.   Who is currently collecting and publishing the existing information?
What are the respective roles of the Government, industry groups, trade
organizations, financial institutions, private firms and others in this
process? Regarding future information to be collected and disseminated, how
could this burden be shared by the private sector.



- 76 -
ANNEX 8C
Page 2 of 2
6.   Is information available at a 'disagregated level and by geographic
location? If so, what types of information, who collects it, and 1-ow often is
it disseminated?
7.   When analyzing new procedures for collecting and publishing housing
market information, attention must be given to the following: .(i) the
establishment of priorities for collecting and publishing information (i.e.,
ranking the information gaps from most important to least important); (ii)
method of collecting data; (iii) survey design and data collection procedures
(i.e., measurement issues); (iv) data processing and analysis; (v)
institutional arrangements for creating and using information; and (iv) cost
of alternative approaches.
Project Develonment
1.   FOVI will develop an outline of the above issues, and will organize for
a meeting cf all the parties (e.g., bankers, developers, private information
companies and government agencies) to analyze the outline, taking into account
the U.S. experience as discussed by Dr. J. Goodman, Economist, U.S. Federal
Reserve Board during his January 1992 visit to Mexico, and set an agenda for
further analysis with the following objectives:
a)   to integrate a data bank available to all parties, with present
information that is accurate and timely; and
b)   determine the information needs of private sector decision markers,
which has a value that the users are willing to pay for and a cost that makes
it worthy to produce by private information companies or by associations of
entrepreneurs.
2. The Government would then set common definitions and guidelines so as to
make the information produced by different parties or in different regions
comparable.
3.   With the above elements the group of government agencies and interested
parties in obtaining the information would present the requirements to all
private information companies in order to interest them, especially on a local
or regional basis, to produced for sale the information requJred.
Aaencv ResDonsible
FCVI would be responsible fox integrating the data base and convening
the meetings. The new information finally produced will depend on the
interest of the private sector to generate and purchase such information.
Time Table
FOVI would complete the study and present the results to the Bank, by
not leter than December 31, 1993. By not later than March 31, 1994, FOVI
would prepare, and thereafter carry out or cause to be carried out, an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which takes into account the results of the
study.



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regulatory Environment Assessment Information for Mexican States I/
B.C.N.    B.C.S.               Coab.    Colima   Capaa          Chib.      D.P.
I.       R*g!atory Cost* (last 12 soe.)                                        M    M__m
aIgh (over 122)                                            12.72        =         =                 15.22       16.02
Nedium (82 to 122)                               9.5S                           10.32    9.0 
Low (under 8S)
info not avilable                                                                              _
II.      Signd FOVI deregulation               z            =          =
agreemnt
III.     Signad SEDUE notary agreament
IV.      Build    codesliand use  lan                                                                                  .
HinLumlotaiz.CH2)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,~~~~~.' ~~.......
Over 90 1K2                         103       120        140                  140                             120
Up to 90 12                                                                            90         90        I
No information                                                      z
Nazism atreet width (Metera) S'
Over 9 _tora                        12        10         12                   9        14         9           10
Up to a moters
No inforation                      _                                z
Maximum grown space (2 of land)      _          'a.                     -         -         -
Over 152                            25.02                                     30.2S   20.0S       17.02
Up to 15S                                        X 5.0   7.02                                                 15.02
No infc.. ation                        -         -          -                                                          _-
V.       Building permit timea         -      
Lsee than 90 days                                          so --                7                   57
From 90 to 180 days                   120        140                                     120                    135
lore than 180 days
No information                                                        in-                                               
Vt.      Territorial reaorvea (TR.)        _  x                                   -                   -          -
A. Beginning of year (hectaTe.)       352        1773      182         167      218      185        298         210        0
B. Sold last 12 month-
VIz.  rVo  auctiona last 12 month .           _ _ _
A. tn monthly mintsom wages (000)       177      75        64                   191       115       256         169        231
B. Percent of total                   3.22       1.42      1.22                 3.52x  2.12         4.-7        3.12       4.22
y       The figurae  provided are preliminary and are aubject to further analrais and verification by POVI. During project ezecution. FOVIL
wi  compile  uch information amnnally and it will be uaed as input for the *nnual and mid-term reviews referred to In Section 2.12
of the Project 4r eemnt.



- 78 -
ANNRX 9
Page 2 of 4
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regulatory Environment Assessment Information for Mexican States I/
DuronRo     Gto.      Gro.    Hida]eo   J-lisco    Mexico    Mich.    Morelos    Nasarit
-        ..,~~~~~... .. . . 91            -                   .....
I        Regulatory Costs (last 12 moo.)                                                                                          _  __|
High (over 12X)                                                     14.82       17 22       15.1X
Medium (S8 to 12S)                              9.42         =
Low (under OX)                       7.4S
info not available                                        s                                            a s       x
II       Sigued FOVI deregulation                                                                    Is         s                     s
agr_ em ent                                              _
III.     Signed SEDUE notsry a*resment        z           s         x         s          z           s          s         s           s
IV.      Building codes/land luse plane                      >"       A>     !
Minims lotei.e(M2) As s)                                                                         .-
Over 90 M2                         144
Up to 90 M2                                   90                  68          90          52
No information                                           s                                                     a s
Maximum seraet width (meters)                                                                                   .        .
Over 9 meters                      14         10                   _    _     13          IO
Up to 8 meters                                                    7
No information                                           s.-                                          s        s           a
t(axinum green space (2 of land)                                                  M:  5g          =
Over 152                           342        352                             202         172
Up to 152                            -
No information                                           s           s                               s                     a
V.       Building permit times 
Lee than 90 days                     3                              30
Prom 90 to 180 dys-                             120                                         120
Eor. thab  180 days                                                             360
So information                                             x           _                                         a s
VI.      Territorial reserves (TR)                   .. .. .a
A. Beginring of year (bectares)    124          0          578       109        125         1332       357       0           51
B. Sold last 12 amoths
Vlt      FOVI suctione lst 12  onthe                                               aM.
A. In monthly sini.m  wages Rll                 422        32       39          241         458        198       7           24
(000)
B. Percent of total                  2.02       7.n        0.62      .7         4           8.3X       3.62      0.12        0.42
1/      The figures provided are preliuinary and are subject to further al*is and verification by FOVI. During project *xscutt'n, FOVI
will compile such information annualy and it wll be used as input £or the  annul and aid-term  reviews referred to in S.ction 2.12
of the Project Agreement.



- 79 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regulatory Environment Assessment Information for Y.sxican States 1/
N.Leon   Oaxaca    Puebla       Qt   | Roo         S.L.P.      Sina.      Sonora    Tabasco
.         IRegulatory Costs (lost 12 moa.)    _......
Nigh (over 122)                                                              23 2S
Medum (82 to 122)                                                   9.5S    _O 1S                                       _ _
Lov (under 82)                      7.92                 7.5Z         _                 4.9Z      5.82
info not available                                                                                                       x
it.      Sied IOVI deregulation                                                       K                     K
greem ent
III.     Sigmnd SEDYI notary gr_emt          x                                    _                                    x                    |
IV.      BuilUd  codolland use plae u           '                       ss                                        . :..
lEilot size M2)     _f f:-Rg,@.
Over 90 H2                                             288        112      116                   122        130
P to 90 12                        80                                                  90
No information                              x                                                                          x
a tr oat idth (meters)   *             'g s'
Over 9 seters                     12                   10         14                     -       1          10         15
Up to 8 *otors                                                             6
No Information                                                                                                         x
MHxm  Igren *pace (Z of land)                                                         .....       ..'..'.
Over 15S                           17.02               26.0-
Up to 152                                                         7.02     15.02      15.02      15.02      12.'1)
No information               _              x                       -
V.       Building permit times               > f       ____'f__
Lees than 90 dayo                   60                   70         90       90         60        20          90
From 90 to 180 days
Mor than 180 days
IWo information                    ____                                                                                
" ,' -----  --   -----  --                                               . .-   ..-.
VI.      Territorial reserv   (TR)                                          x _                                        .....
A. Beginning of y er (hectaree)      101S      0         0          53       70         0          762        676        0
B. Sold lost 12 months
VII.  FOVI suctione last 12 montbe          =                   __     _=
A. In monthly mdnla wages           128                  402        16       27         479        218        145        21
(000)
B. Percent of total                 2.3X                 7.32       0. 3     0.52       8.72       4.02       2.62       0.42
11      The figures provided are prelminvary and are subject to further analysis and verification by FOVI.  During proa-et execution, POVI
will compile such information amnnsuly and it wil be used as input for the annual and mid-term reviewe referred t,i in Section 2.12
of the Project Agreemet.



- 80 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
MEXICO
HOUSING MARRET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regulatory Environment Assessment Information for Mexican States I/
| T .        Tlax.      V. Crus      Yucatan      Zaca.      Total
1.       Regulators  Costs (last 12 mom.)
Nigh (over 122)                                             20. S                               8
medium (BX to 122)                               10.7X                   9.92Z                  8
Low (uader 82)                                                                                  5
Info not availabl-                   zv                                              x          11
II.      Signed FOVI deregulation                                    z            Z           x          11
agreement
III.     Sn ed SEDUE notary axreement          z          x          z            x           x          27
IV.      Building codes/land usa plane
Minimum .lot  se h2)
Over 90 M2                          130                   105         152                     14
Up to 901t2                                   75                                             9
No Information                                                                     z          9
-     ~~~~~~  ~~~~- ~~~~~....-.
|axlmx street width (moters)        _                          -
Over 9 meters                                 9           9                                   19
Up to a meters                                                        8                       3
No Information                      v                                              x          10
MAxIMUM green space (2 of land)      _
Over 152                                      55.02                                           11
Up to 152                                                 14.02       4.02                    10
No information                      a                                              v          11
V.       Building permit tie 
Lessthan90das                                  30          is          30                      15
Prom 90 to 180 days                                                                             6
More than 160 days
Mo Information                        a                                                         10        I
VI.      Terrltorial reseves cTE) ( TR
A. Beginning of year (hectares)       65        34          2076        6219         29         17056
B. Sold last 12 month.
VII.    OVI auctione last 12  onthe
A. In monthly  inimum wagea (000)    114                    661         401          73         5495
B. Percent of total                   2.12     _            12.02       7.32         1.32       100.02
1/      The figures provided are preliminary and are subject to further analysis and verification by OVI. DurinS
project execution. OV? wil compile such information annualy and it wil be used as Input for the annual and
id torm rsvie  referred to In Section 2.12 of the Project Agresuent.



HOUSING MARME? DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FOVI Monitoring Indicators and Performance Targets
Nonitorions Indicatore 1/
1.  FOVI Amount of Credits Financed
Pesos (Millions)                                       1,271,250       1,349,170        1,452,820        1,528,980        1,680,363
Number of Monthly Min. Wagee (HMW.)                   3,178.900        3,167,065        3,250,156        3,253,149        3,408,438
Average MHWs per unit                                      109.5             97.2             97.3             96.0           108.5
2.  Number of Credit Flnanced                                   29,041           32,582           33,391           33,877          31,407
3.  Distrlbution of Final Credits (by amount)                                       .
Up to 130 fMis                                     _ _0_                70Z              70S              701              70X
Over 130 MMas                                           302             307              30Z              301              30S
Total                                             1002            1001             1002             1001             100S
4.  FOVI Net Income (Hillions of Pesos)                         84,260           73,900           65,140           71,740         100,380          OD
Performance Indicators 2/ 1.r                                                                                                                      -
1. Distritbtion of Auction Financing (by amount)
Up to 130 MMWs                                          802             802              801              802              801
Over 130 NMWs                                           202             201              201              202              20Z
Total                                             1002             100Z             1001            100S             100Z
2.  States with Signed FOVI Deregulation
Agreement                                             :.~..~~.....
a.  Number (32 Total Possible)                                _                _          22 _/              22               22
b.  2 of Total                                             ___                              701             701              701
1/    The annual figures for the FOVI monitoring Indicators contained In this table represent expectations based on current data.
FOVI will compile these figures annually and they vill be used as input for the annual and mid-term reviews referred to in
Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement.
2/    FOVI shall meet the targets establils  d in the performance indicators in any given year pursuant to Section 2.11 of the Project
Agreement.
3/    In accordance with Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement, FOVI shall sign deregulation agreements with at least 22 of the States
by June 30, 1994. 
Notes Information used in developing these indicators and targets was provided by FOVI at loan negotiation; for supporting data, see                0
project files.



- 82 -                                                           ANNEX 11
MEXICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMEIT PROJECT
Mexico Housing Sector Monitoring Indicators 1/I
1992            1993            1994             1995           1996
S. Conrcial bank l addQu for bmtz
.. N    ub lendr lg
1. Curreut Pesos (mllion.)
2. Constant 1991 prices (millions)
3. U.S. dollars (millions)
4. A.ba  of  tow    lred t
B. o       ouse o ortgage dcedit outsandu at   I- 5}
1. Current peaos (million.)
2. Conetant 1991 prices (mULlen)
3.  U. S. dollars (milions) 
4. Asber * of tloatl cret d
to pvat.  *tor
S.  Houve r ortgese   delneaunt 1991
IS. Publc Sector loans for housing_=
A. IONYoIST new lending                                     .
1. Currenc peso* (mifliono)
2. Constant 1991 prics (llions)
_ 3.  U.S. dollars (million)
4. Number of new loans
S.  Averago misi  in conatat 1991
C. POHssTAP na  lending                                                                                       _
1.  Current pesos (million)
2. Constant 1991 prics
1     S.DeS dollar3  pioryan)
4. Pomber of naw loans
b. Av;ra    tet
Ars min       in estar
C. Acuirow endduing ye
1. Current poso ("Ion)
2. Cout nt 1991 prices (millicn)
3. D.S p dollar          g
4. Number of sa lons
III.  Drb n Lrnd Markct re
Torritort l Resorvs_
1. Dcomber 31 prior ya r
ionmb2r2f  stheos
Ar& i n hectarsr 
2. Acquired durin year
Nuber of *tctoc
Area In hectares 
during yer°rbu
Wbeor of *tates
Are oln bactcr @
11   OVt wi11 co pilo this  nfoCmi    snuU    and it u1U be twed meo inut for the au l *and u1  term project revim    r forr d to in
Sectionl 2.12 of the Project *eiw.



- 83 -
ANNEX 12
LW!ICO
HOUSING MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
December 31, 1992                      40.0             40.0            8.9
March 31, 1993                         40.0             80.0           17.8
June 30, 1993                          40.0            120.0           26.7
FY-94                                                                            l
September 30, 1993                     40.0            160.0           35.6
December 31, 1993                      40.0            200.0           44.4
March 31, 1994                         40.0            240.0           53.3
June 30, 1994                          60.0            300.0           66.7
FY-95
September 30, 1994                     20.0            320.0           71.1
December 31, 1994                      20.0            340.0           75.6
March 31, 1995                         20.0            360.0           80.0
June 30, 1995                          15.0            375.0           83.3
FY-96                                                            _
lSeptember 30, 1995                    15.0            390.0           86.7
Dococmber 31, 1995                     10.0            400.0           88.9
March 31, 1996                         20.0            420.0           93.3
June 30, 1996                          10.0            430.0           95.6
1Y-97
September 30, 1996                     10.0            440.0           97.8
December 31, 1996                      10.0            450.0          100.00



MAP SECTION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



UNITED       STATES      OF      AMERICA
5>"oito~-..-
Nagales                              Ciude  e t                                       Cd A-
Aacaftia            S  oresfflde                                                                                                                    M    E  X  INC  O
Guoyntosjt                                        ONwrrosiro  .                                                                          5     Stoee copixtstialnwenance dbtrict htsaqutr5ars}~~~~~Stae cpitl.(Mat..ncedialit f0ad..,.-
CAlfiNA                -O       oson        S                           0           X(   NV*.L.ord                                                                                                       Di,;d.d high..y.
$up                                                                                                                                                                                       Ril'aad.~~Nil
£  N    CIA   ~ ~~~~~~1,A  
L.4 P a.   ..                                         G                         Cd.
* Ciodod Ob'.ainonWora_                                              /                       Ciu
CiA IFO*NIA                           .                                                                                                                                       Ditoded  rigliwals
-~~ .r4i.    Prnia airports                                                                                                                                                         ;r oo" ^
40 ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     u,twlro                                                                                                                                       Stata+ boundariesi-tf    Oro(o^ES.
'C.b. ~~~~~~S.I 1-< rzans                                                     i        r Cd-l  gC*u 
MAcop- 4eo M*one.    .iTx                                                               . intenctiuo bocda jn
4~~~~~~~~~~~PP4
1(10  ZqD  31          octonuoo                                                                  atone CSVdn                              Altamra~51E....
M.ni
rWooEfflrandidot ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     C 0. i                                  CimetucLA  
Mkntenvic                                                                                                       ). Cona1
; 4aua,Intcn                                          *Villabennosa
z1huatene'A  ochilp-iniao                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BELIZE
A-p.k.*                                                 A w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kTcln Gutietre
- 20     300      Ay5      -*-05-                                                                                                                                                                                   .-
too           zoo             300 
HONDURAS



