Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11875
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1603-PAK)
MAY 14, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Pakistani Rupee (PRs)
Appraisal Year (1985):                 US$1.00 = PRs15.9
Intervening Years (1986-1990):         US$1.00 = PRs18.9
Completion Year (1991):                US$1.00 = PRs23.8
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)        =         30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 mile (mi)        =         1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)        =         0.405 hectare (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                Asian Development Bank
ADP                Annual Development Program
CCA                Cultivable Command Area
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
FGW                Fresh Groundwater
GOP                Government of Pakistan
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
MINFAC             Ministry of Food, Agriculture & Cooperatives
NWFP               North West Frontier Province
OFWM               On-Farm Water Management
PLL                Precision Land Levelling
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
RMP                Resident Mission in Pakistan
SGW                Saline Groundwater
USAID              US Agency for International Development
WAPDA              Water and Power Development Authority
WUA                Water Users' Association



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 14, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Second On-Farm Water Management Project (Credit 1603-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second On-Farm Water
Management Project (Credit 1603-PAK) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project aimed to increase agricultural production through more effective use
of irrigation water. It continued Bank support for the Government's country-wide program of
upgrading minor irrigation distribution channels, establishing private users associations to manage
supplies and maintain minor civil works, and improve irrigation management on small farms. The
program is based on research and pilot projects supported by USAID in the 1970s and is now
assisted by several donors in a large number of irrigation projects. The first Bank project was
completed satisfactorily in 1985, with that experience leading to some design changes in the
second project (PCR dated June 24, 1988).
The PCR reports that the project was satisfactorily completed, with a re-estimated
economic rate of return of 22 percent (as at appraisal). Physical achievements were double those
originally planned because of devaluation-related cost savings. Reservations are expressed,
however, on the failure to use agreed sub-project selection and design criteria, the role and poor
performance of some project consultants, the absence of effective monitoring and evaluation, the
quality of some of the works, and the failure of water users' associations to fulfil their intended
roles. Sustainability is therefore uncertain and the PCR urges caution in implementing the
following third project (approved in 1991).
To explore these matters further, it is intended to audit this project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1 603-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............
PARTI                        ................................                                             1
1. Project Identity   .............................................                                      1
2. Background  ...............................................                                           1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ...............................                                   2
4. Project Design and Organization .................................                                     3
5. Project Implementation ........................................                                       4
6. Project Results  .............................................                                        7
7. Project Sustainability  .........................................   11
8. Bank Performance ...........................................   12
9. Borrower Performance ........................................   13
10. Project Relationship   .........................................   13
11. Consulting Services   .........................................   14
12. Project Documentation and Data ............................-.-.15
PART II                                               ..    16
PART IIl .... 18
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits  .............                             .............   18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2. Project Timetable ........................                              18
3. Credit Disbursements .........................-- 20
4. Project Implementation         ..21
A. Physical Achievements .21
B. Consulting Services .22
C. Training Program .22
5. Project Cost and Financing       ..23
A. Project Cost .23
B. Project Financing .24
6. Project Results          ..25
A. Direct Benefits .25
B. Economic Impact .25
C. Financial Impact .27
D. Studies .27
7. Status of Covenants .28
8. Use of Bank Resources    ..29
A. Staff Inputs .29
B. Missions .29
ATTACHMENT: Consultants' Comments
ANNEX TABLES
1    Project Costs by Province and Expenditure Category
2    Project Cost Streams
3    Financial and Economic Prices
4    Estimated Command and Cropped Area
5    Cropping Intensities
6    Crop Yields for Ex-Post Economic Analysis
7    Summary of Farm Budgets
8    Project Cost and Benefit Streams
9    Per Hectare Project Cost and Retum
Maps - IBRD Nos. 18719
18720R
18721
18722
18818



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1 603-PAK)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second On-Farm Water
Management Project in Pakistan for which Credit 1603-PAK in the amount of SDR 34.8
million (US$34.5 million equivalent) was approved on June 6, 1985. The Credit was
closed on December 31, 1991, after three one-year extensions. It was fully disbursed,
with the last disbursement made on September 14, 1991.
2.        Parts I and IlIl of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission'/, which visited Pakistan in February/March 1992, and revised by the
Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department IlIl, South Asia Region. Preparation
was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5459-PAK) dated May 10, 1985,
and the legal documents dated September 30, 1985; IDA supervision reports and project
files; a draft PCR by the project's supervisory consultants; field visits; and discussions
with project staff and IDA staff associated with the Project. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
'/ M. Sugimura - mission leader/agronomist, Ms. S. Marzin - agricultural economist, and S. Ralagopal -
irrigation engineer, consultant.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1 603-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.       This project was IDA's follow-up to the On-Farm Water Management Project
(OFWM I, Cr. 1163-PAK), which closed in December 1985. The project was designed to
consolidate the gains achieved under OFWM I and make improvements in the Provincial
OFWM programs to enable them to realize their potential. The primary objective of
OFWM II was to increase agricultural production through effective use of irrigation water
saved by renovation of watercourses and application of improved OFWM practices. The
project, phased over three years (FY86 to FY88), was to be implemented in most of the
irrigated districts of the four provinces, except those areas which were included under
other projects with an OFWM component. Approximately 400,000 ha of irrigated land
involving about 90,000 farm families were expected to benefit from the project.
Implementation Experience
2.       The project was actually implemented between 1986 and 1991. The original
closing date, December 31, 1988, was extended three times by one year each time, to
December 31, 1991. The need for a longer implementation period arose largely due to
up-scaling of the OFWM program which was possible because of substantial credit
savings caused by devaluation of the Rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar and the SDR.
Consequently, in terms of physical achievement, the project substantially surpassed the
SAR targets in all aspects: a total of 5,157 watercourses with lining and 168 watercourses
without lining were completed, representing 212% and 152% of the appraisal targets,
respectively. In addition, some 6,250 demonstration plots (246% of the SAR target) were
established, about 25,870 ha precision levelled (nearly 162% of the target), and 652 water
storage tanks constructed (about 900% of the target).
3.       Although physical targets were achieved or exceeded, monitoring and
evaluation (M & E) work was less than satisfactory, producing results of limited
usefulness, and expatriate technical assistance was lacking in practical applicability.'
/ Consultants' comments are in the Attachment following Part 111.
iii



OFWM demonstrations and training were insufficiently focused on farmers' needs, and
demonstration plots were operated for too short a time to have much effect. Also, cost
recovery rates proposed in the SAR proved to be inequitable in some cases.
4.       At completion, project cost was estimated at PRs 1,753.5 million or US$95.6
million equivalent, exceeding the SAR estimate of PRs 930 million or US$57.8 million by
PRs 823.5 million (89%) or US$37.8 million (65%). Primary factors contributing to the cost
increase were the increase in the volume of project works and in related costs (farmers'
labor, supervision and administration).
Project Results
5.       The command area of the project now is about 900,000 ha, more than double
the area estimated at appraisal. Approximately 180,000 farm families, or nearly double
the number anticipated by the SAR, are covered by the project. However, whether the
principal project objective of increasing agricultural production through effective use of
irrigation water saved by improved OFWM practices has been achieved, cannot be
established conclusively because of insufficient data. From available M&E measurements
it appears that the saving in water conveyance losses due to project works was much
less than expected (on average, 5% for unlined and 10% for lined watercourses, as
against 20% for lined watercourses quoted in the SAR). Project farmers interviewed by
the PCR mission generally indicated that the project works helped them reduce water
stealing among their group, and also that it took less time to divert water into their plots
because of the installation of turnouts. However, their opinions on increases in cropping
intensity and crop yields, due to the project, varied significantly.
6.       At 22%, the project's re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is the same
as estimated at appraisal.  But the ERRs for individual provincial programs vary
significantly, ranging from 11% for Baluchistan to 14%, 18% and 25% for NWFP, Sind and
Punjab, respectively. However, in view of the data situation, these results should be
treated with caution.
Sustainability
7.       In order to ensure maintenance of watercourses, the project had required the
formation of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and provided technical services. WUAs
functioned well during construction of civil works, but available information indicates that
they failed to assume many of the post-implementation responsibilities intended to be
delegated to them, often including maintenance of works. Fortunately, this does not
mean that maintenance was not done. While project sustainability does not appear to be
at issue, the question remains why WUAs do not function as intended, and what needs
to be done to achieve the intended purpose. Clearly, under follow-up projects more
attention will have to be given to this matter.
iv



Findings and Lessons Learned
8.       Major lessons to be learned from project execution are that: (i) amendment
of the DCA to open four provincial Special Accounts in the early stage of the project
facilitated the flow of funds and expedited implementation; (ii) application of more rigid
criteria for both selection of watercourses to be renovated and sections to be lined would
be needed in order to avoid renovation which may not result in significant water saving
and increased productivity; (iii) greater attention would have to be paid to WUAs to ensure
that they can function as intended; (iv) use of expatriate consultants should be limited to
specializations for which expertise is not readily available locally; (v) greater attention must
be paid to establishing an effective M&E system, in order to obtain information which is
essential for follow-up activities and assessment of project impact; and (vi) the Borrower
should proceed with caution in implementing the third OFWM project (OFWM Ill - Cr.
2245-PAK, Ln. 3327-PAK), and not underestimate the experience gained from OFWM 11,
especially as regards the need to remedy the deficiencies mentioned in (ii) above, and
to investigate the reasons for the reported failure of WUAs to assume the responsibilities
intended to be delegated to them.
v



l~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr.1 603-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name       Second On-Farm Water Management Project
Credit No.         1603-PAK
RVP Unit           South Asia Region
Country            Pakistan
Sector             Agriculture
Sub-sector         Irrigation
2. Background
2.1      Irrigation is the dominant sub-sector in Pakistan's agriculture. The bulk of
agricultural production (about 90%) comes from irrigated land. The Bank's strategy in the
sector has been to support the Government's initiatives to increase irrigation efficiency.
A major element of this strategy has been to introduce better on-farm water management
(OFWM) practices. IDA's involvement in Pakistan's OFWM program started with the
inclusion of OFWM components in the Khaipur Tile Drainage (Cr. 648-PAK) and SCARP
Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK) projects. In 1981, based on experience of a pilot OFWM project
assisted by USAID during the period 1976-80, IDA, with co-financing from IFAD, agreed
to finance the first self-standing OFWM project (OFWM I, Cr. 1163-PAK, PCR dated June
24, 1988). IDA also continued to include OFWM components in irrigation and drainage
projects (see Part ll/1, footnote). The Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(OFWM II) was the follow-up to OFWM I, which was closed in December 1985. Bank/IDA
financing for a third OFWM project (OFWM 1II) was approved on May 21, 1991, and the
loan and credit (Ln. 3327-PAK, Cr. 2245-PAK) became effective on May 14, 1992.
1



3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1      The objectives of the project were to: (a) increase agricultural production
through effective use of irrigation water saved by improved OFWM practices; (b) improve
the capability of the Provincial OFWM Directorates to plan and implement an expanding
OFWM program; (c) facilitate the coordination and cooperation between the Provincial
OFWM and Extension Directorates, and strengthen the water management advisory
capability of the Extension Services; and (d) strengthen farmer participation in Water
Users' Associations (WUAs) in order to improve water and non-water input management
as well as to ensure adequate maintenance of civil works.
3.2      The three-year project (FY86-FY88) was to be implemented in most of the
irrigated districts of Pakistan's four provinces, except those areas which were included
under other projects with an OFWM component. About 400,000 ha of irrigated land,
involving about 90,000 farm families, were expected to benefit from the project.
3.3      The principal components of the project, as appraised, were:
(a)   Watercourse Renovation:  (i) reconstruction of about 2,400
watercourses following the technology employed under OFWM I,
involving masonry and plaster lining of selected portions of these
watercourses; (ii) renovation of 110 watercourses without lining on a
pilot basis, to determine the relative efficiency of this approach.
(b)   Precision Land Levelling (PLL): Levelling of about 16,000 ha of
irrigated land by applying the technology used under OFWM I,
including provision of necessary equipment to farmers on a rental
basis.
(c)   Water Storage Tanks: Construction of about 70 water storage tanks
in NWFP and Baluchistan to conserve water by increasing volumetric
flows through intermittent and timely releases.
(d)    Demonstration Plots: Establishment of one or more demonstration
plots on each renovated watercourse to show farmers effective ways
of utilizing the increased water supply resulting from project
improvements.
(e)    Project Implementation Facilities: (i) provision of vehicles, land-
levelling equipment including laser controls, survey and office
equipment; (ii) provision to cover salaries, allowances and
administrative and operating expenses for 79 provincial OFWM field
teams and support staff as well as a small coordinating cell at the
federal level; and (iii) provision of office space and staff housing for
two new field teams in Baluchistan.
2



(f)    Technical Assistance and Training: (i) provision of about 504 staff-
months of local supervisory consultants' services, and about 54 staff-
months of internationally selected experts' services to assist in
carrying out the project; (ii) provision of local institutional services to
monitor and evaluate the project; and (iii) provision of training for
project field staff, extension workers and WUA members.
3.4      The project was estimated to cost PRs 930 million or US$57.8 million, with civil
works and equipment together accounting for about 76% of the total. Against this, an IDA
credit of SDR 34.8 million (US$34.5 million equivalent) was approved in June 1985. The
credit documents were signed in September 1985 and the credit became effective on
February 14, 1986.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1       Project Concept. The USAID-assisted pilot OFWM project and OFWM I laid
a clear conceptual foundation for the project, which was shared and understood by both
IDA and government. The project, being an almost straightforward extension of OFWM I,
contained no particular innovative aspects in its design. Major changes compared to
OFWM I were: (i) exclusion of the accelerated watercourse improvement program'/
and introduction of a pilot program for renovating a limited number of watercourses
without lining; (ii) strengthening of OFWM field team composition; and (iii) further
strengthening of coordination between Provincial OFWM Directorates and Extension
Services.
4.2       Project Scope. Given the strong commitment of the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) and Provincial Governments to the OFWM program under the Sixth Five-Year Plan
(FY84-88), the scope of the project as appraised was generally appropriate. Timing of
the project was also appropriate in the light of GOP's requirement to continue the OFWM
program. Project size was chiefly determined by available funding in GOP's Annual
Development Program (ADP).
4.3       Project Preparation. The project was prepared by a local consultant financed
under the UNDP Umbrella Project PAK/81 /004 with the World Bank as executing agency.
The consultant's feasibility report and draft PC-12/ were considered satisfactory, meeting
the appraisal requirements.
4.4       Project Organization. Implementation arrangements at the provincial level
and overall project coordination at federal level were basically modelled after OFWM I.
Roles and responsibilities of the implementing agencies - each Provincial OFWM
The accelerated program was not well accepted by both farmers and OFWM staff, mainly because of
inadequate engineering associated with the installation of pucca nuccas.
2/ Planning Commission Proforma-1.
3



Directorate - as well as the Federal Water Management Cell (FWMC) were therefore well
defined and understood.
4.5      The SAR specified broad criteria for: (i) selection of watercourses to be
improved (potential for increased productivity, formation of Water Users' Associations, and
willingness of farmers to improve the earthen sections of the watercourses); and (ii) lining
of the selected watercourses. In retrospect, it would have been better if the SAR had
provided more location-specific criteria for watercourse renovation, which would have
ensured the proper execution of the works (para 5.4).
5. Project Implementation
5.1      Credit disbursement (in SDR) lagged behind the SAR estimates up to the
original closing date of December 31, 1988, largely because of the appreciation of the
SDR against the US dollar. By end December 1988, about SDR 26.1 million or 75% of
the credit was disbursed, and progress of major physical works was close to the SAR
targets. In view of the credit savings, GOP requested a two-year extension of the closing
date to December 1990 to allow implementation of an expanded OFWM works program,
and IDA granted two one-year extensions. By end June 1990, physical achievements of
the expanded program exceeded the revised targets, leaving an undisbursed credit
amount of SDR 1.6 million. The credit closing date was extended one last time to
December 31, 1991, with a view to keeping the project field teams intact and able to
continue their normal work without interruption until OFWM IlIl (appraised in May/June
1990) became effective. The credit was fully disbursed on September 14, 1991.
5.2      Project Costs. At completion, project cost was estimated by the supervisory
consultants at PRs 1,753.5 million or US$95.6 million (Part 1ll/5A). Compared to the SAR
estimate, the cost total is higher by PRs 823.5 million (89%) or US$37.8 million (65%).
The increase in cost is largely attributable to the up-scaling of OFWM works, which was
possible because of the substantial devaluation of the Rupee and the US dollar against
the SDR, and the overall increase in related costs (particularly farmers' labor and
supervision and administration).
5.3      Special Accounts. Early in project implementation (1986), GOP requested
IDA to establish a Special Account for each Province instead of the single Account
orginially foreseen, to facilitate the timely flow of credit funds for the provincial programs.
IDA agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), allowing GOP to open
a Special Account with the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) at each provincial capital.
The requested amendment was based on experience of delays in the flow of funds under
OFWM I, which had used one Imprest Account with the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP).
The revision greatly facilitated the flow of funds and expedited project implementation.
5.4      Watercourse Renovation. A total of 5,157 watercourse renovations with
lining and 168 pilot watercourse renovations without lining were completed under the
4



project, representing 212% and 152% of the SAR targets, respectively. A breakdown by
province is in Part l1l/4A. However, selection of watercourses for renovation did not
follow the criteria specified in the SAR (para 2.07), except regarding the formation of
Water Users' Associations. Watercourses to be renovated were selected on a first-come
first-served basis by the Provincial OFWM Directorates and their field representatives. The
recommendation to choose areas where groups of five to ten watercourses could be
improved at one time to increase efficiency was not pursued. It would have been
appropriate for the implementing agencies to set up location-specific criteria under the
broad criteria laid down by the SAR. For instance, these should have included:
-     determination of soil formations through which the watercourse is
flowing;
-     estimation of water losses in the selected watercourses to determine
if any significant water savings and hence increased productivity would
result from renovation;
-     identification of the types of losses"' in each watercourse and the
location of their occurrence;
-     sufficiency of the mogha deliveries.
Even though actual designs for renovation were based on guidelines laid down in the
manuals prepared under earlier projects, it appears that required attention was not paid
to the above. Unfortunately, the supervisory consultants had no mandate to carry out the
investigations mentioned above. They were limited to checking the designs only. In
retrospect, it would have been better if the consultants could have taken a more active
role. Interviews with the consultants' engineers indicated that some watercourses have
been renovated which will not save irrigation water, particularly in Sind.
5.5       So far, the agencies involved have paid little attention to designing the OFWM
program as part of an overall program to improve irrigation water management. While
the present OFWM program can help to increase water deliveries and eventual use,
unless water deliveries from the main canal system to each mogha are sufficient and
reliable, watercourse renovation alone cannot achieve the potential increase in crop
production. The OFWM program, therefore, should concentrate on improving water
management under a "minor" or a "distributary" rather than continuing scaKtered
improvement. The problems in improving overall irrigation system water management
would have to be tackled on an individual command-source2/ basis. The priority should
be to ensure effective, reliable water supply and drainage, to each mogha. When this has
1/ Include seepage losses, losses arising from degradation of certain sections used for washing laundry
and bathing buffaloes, and from deterioration of banks owing to burrowing animals.
2/ Command source could be a minor or a distributary which supplies water to many moghas.
5



been achieved, improvement of watercourse deliveries and farm-level irrigation water
management becomes more meaningful.
5.6      Precision Land Levelling (PLL). A total of 25,870 ha has been levelled
during the project period (162% of appraisal target). PLL was generally successful in
Punjab, Sind and NWFP. In Baluchistan, demand for PLL was less than expected,
according to provincial OFWM staff. The reason for this shortfall is the topography of
farm land in Baluchistan, which requires land grading rather than land levelling as
envisaged at appraisal. Consequently, the project-provided laser levelling equipment has
not been utilized in Baluchistan. The physical achievement for Baluchistan given in Part
ll1/4A (over 300% of appraisal target) is based on data provided by the supervisory
consultants. The PCR mission was unable to clarify this discrepancy.
5.7      Water Storage Tanks. A total of 652 water storage tanks was constructed
in Baluchistan (597) and NWFP (55), which is about nine times the appraisal target.
Storage tank construction was highly subsidized (no cost recovery) and benefited mostly
richer farmers largely irrigating high value orchards. The SAR called for plastic sheet
lining for the bed of water storage tanks; the walls were to be made of brick masonry.
The tanks were to be designed to store about eight to twelve hours of inflow from a water
source and to discharge the stored water at a high volumetric rate to minimize
conveyance losses. Actually, the tanks have been built with concrete walls and a
concrete base, which is more expensive. The tanks are, in general, fed by tubewells
discharging about 0.25 cusecs. The provinces have adopted a standard dimension of
40ft x 40ft x 4ft for the tanks. Allowing a freeboard of 1 ft, available storage is 4,800 cft,
which can handle about five to six hours of flow from such a source.
5.8      Demonstration Plots. A total of about 6,250 demonstration plots (with a size
of approximately 0.5 to 1.0 ha) was established during the project period in commands
served by the project-renovated watercourses (about 250% of SAR target). However, the
plots had little demonstration value because they were operated for only one year after
completion of each watercourse renovation. Except for PLL demonstrations on these
plots, there was little incentive for farmers to cooperate in this program.
5.9      Technical Assistance (TA) and Training.  Because of the three-year
extension of the implementation period, inputs of the local supervisory consultants and
the expatriate TA consultants were increased from 504 staff-months (local) and 54 staff-
months (expatriate) to 783 staff-months and 99 staff-months, respectively. In addition,
monitoring and evaluation (M & E) of the project watercourses was conducted under a
lump sum contract. This work was originally contracted to a local firm in April 1987, but
the contract was terminated in November 1988 because of the firm's unsatisfactory
performance (see para 11.2). Thereafter, the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) was appointed as M & E consultant. WAPDA's actual M & E work started in
July 1989 and covered four crop seasons - kharif 1989 to rabi 1990/91. The final report
was expected to be issued in May 1992. The M & E results are summarized in para 6.9.
Performance of the project consultants is assessed in Section 11.
6



5.10     About 1,300 field staff and extension workers and 6,300 WUA members
attended the project-organized training program. The courses for engineering field staff
were appreciated by those who attended. However, it appears that programs on OFWM
practices for extension workers and WUA members were focused on theoretical teaching
of irrigation agronomy, and application of course content to local conditions was
impractical. Since most of Pakistan's irrigation system has been designed to deliver
predetermined irrigation duties to all watercourse commands for specific periods of time,
and water is distributed within the command according to the time-honoured Warabundi
system,'/ regardless of actual demand of crops grown by farmers, training in OFWM
practices based on the supply-on-demand irrigation system has little practical use.
5.11     Water Users' Associations were registered as required in the legal
documents, but the farmers were involved only in providing manual labor for watercourse
renovation (except in Punjab, where they also paid the masons). Interviews with a limited
number of farmers and WUA chairmen indicated that they were not consulted as to the
location of buffalo baths or laundry facilities. Procurement of locally available bricks and
sand was carried out at the provincial level (not at the watercourse level), and in most
instances involved long hauling distances. In theory, WUAs were to have increased
control and responsibility in the renovation of watercourses, but in practice it appears that
a top-down approach was used in executing the project.
6. Project Results
6.1      Impact on Crop Production. The command area of the project-renovated
watercourses is now estimated at about 900,000 ha, more than double the area expected
at appraisal. Approximately 180,000 farm families, or nearly double the SAR figure, are
estimated to be covered by the project.  Although physical achievements are
commendable, the question of whether or not the primary project objective of increasing
agricultural production through effective use of irrigation water saved has been achieved
cannot be properly answered due to absence of reliable data. From WAPDA's limited
sample M & E measurements summarized below (para 6.9) it appears that the saving in
water conveyance losses due to project works was much less than expected (on average,
5% for unlined and 10% for lined watercourses, as against 20% for lined watercourses
quoted in the SAR). Project farmers interviewed by the PCR mission generally indicated
that the project works helped them reduce water stealing among their group, and also
that it took less time to divert water into their plots because of the installation of pucca
nuccas (turnouts). However, their opinions on increases in cropping intensity and crop
yields, due to the project, varied significantly.
6.2      The supervisory consultants made an effort to evaluate project impact on crop
production in 1991 to obtain a basis for the PCR they were preparing for GOP. The data
on cultivable command areas were taken from the progress reports they had prepared
' Detailed time-based water scheduling below the government outlet (mogha).
7



and are consistent. However, lack of records on actual changes in crop production--
including cropping patterns, cropping intensities and crop yields--in the project area made
a quantitative assessment problematic. The consultants pointed out to the PCR mission
that their estimates (based on the SAR) may not necessarily reflect actual changes in crop
production. They recognize that cropping patterns in Baluchistan and also to some
extent in NWFP are significantly different from those assumed in the SAR and hence the
PCR they prepared for GOP. The PCR mission noted these differences in the field, but
its brief field visit was insufficient to collect enough data to support a set of its own
assumptions.
6.3      A point of concern to the PCR mission was also the lack of a proper basis for
the cropping intensities "with project" assumed by the supervisory consultants. This was
compounded by inconsistencies between the estimates of incremental cropping intensities
presented in the consultants' draft PCR and the detailed information subsequently
provided to the mission. In view of this data situation, the mission considered it prudent
in its rate of return analysis to adjust pro-rata the incremental cropping intensities
assumed in the SAR to reflect the lower water savings reported by the M & E consultant
(para 6.1).
6.4      For its re-evaluation of the ERR, the PCR mission used the following
parameters:
(a)    Estimates of cultivable command areas provided by the supervisory
consultants;
(b)   cropping patterns and the moderate increases in crop yields assumed
in the SAR, modified by assumptions made in the SAR for OFWM IlIl
to reflect the mission's estimate (see para 5.7) that about 15% of
project farmers in NWFP established orchards (plum) and 25% in
Baluchistan improved irrigation of their orchards (apple); and
(c)   its own assumptions in respect of incremental cropping intensities
(para 6.3).
6.5      The re-estimated incremental crop production is summarized in Part Ill/6A.
The project's financial and economic performance is described in paras 6.6 and 6.7
below. However, the results should be treated with caution.
6.6      Re-evaluation of Economic and Financial Impact. While overall project
benefits are higher than the SAR estimates because of significant overachievement of
physical targets and larger number of beneficiaries, the impact at farm level is less than
expected at appraisal (Part l1l/6A). Analysis based on the farm models described above,
in constant 1991-92 Rupees, suggests a much lower increase in farmers' incomes than
estimated by the SAR--except for farmers in Baluchistan and NWFP growing fruit (Annex
Table 7).
8



6.7      Details on the ex-post economic analysis are in Part llI/6B. The re-estimated
ERR for the project as a whole, at 22% (Annex Table 8), is the same as estimated at
appraisal. It would appear that the impact of reduced project benefits per unit area was
offset by cost savings (Annex Table 9). However, the re-estimated ERRs for the provincial
programs (except NWFP's) differ significantly from the SAR estimates, ranging from 11%
for Baluchistan (SAR, 25%) to 14% (SAR, 15%), 18% (SAR, 26%) and 25% (SAR, 21%)
for NWFP, Sind, and Punjab, respectively.  Average actual costs of watercourse
renovation per hectare (Annex Table 9) for Baluchistan and NWFP are much higher than
for the other two provinces. If a 25% saving had been achieved through better selection
of watercourses to be renovated, the ERR for NWFP would be 17%, and for Baluchistan
18%, bringing them more in line with the other provincial rates. This reinforces the lesson
learned from OFWM II that more rigid application of selection criteria, in particular the
criterion of high potential for increased productivity, both in selecting watercourses to be
renovated and sections to be lined, would be needed under a future program (see paras
5.4 and 8.3). If orchards are removed from the Baluchistan and NWFP farm models, the
ERRs for both provinces drop to 7%--with the overall ERR remaining the same. If,
contrary to current indications, water savings and thus incremental cropping intensities
expected at appraisal are achieved, substantially higher ERRs than shown above would
result for the project and all provinces--except NWFP in the "without orchard" case.
6.8      Environmental Impact. The actual effect of the project on the environment
is unknown. Although the SAR identified a number of positive effects and also a
(marginal) negative effect, none of these effects has been monitored as there was no
such provision under the project. From the mission's field observations it appears that
the project had, by and large, a positive impact on the environment because it built on
existing irrigation systems and renovated watercourses to improve the operation of a part
of the system.
6.9      Results of Watercourse M & E. Fourteen watercourses--3 in Mardan, NWFP;
3 each in Faisalabad and Multan, Punjab; 3 in Hyderabad, Sind; and 2 in Pishin,
Baluchistan--were selected for M & E on a case study basis. These watercourses were
monitored over four crop seasons. Findings can be summarized as follows.
(a)   The rule that the unlined portion of a watercourse to be renovated
should be improved before lining work is carried out, appears not to
have been followed in Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP. It appears to
have been followed in Punjab.
(b)   From data collected in the study, it appears that overall delivery
efficiencies in the three types of watercourses were:
- watercourse with lining and pucca nuccas        80-81%
- watercourse without lining but with pucca nuccas  71-77%
- control watercourse (without pucca nuccas)      69-73%
9



It can probably be concluded from these results that delivery
efficiencies increased 10% in the case of watercourses with lining and
about 5% in the case of watercourses without lining but with pucca
nuccas. But caution should be exercised in accepting these results
since they are based on data collected from only 14 watercourses
selected on a random basis.
(c)   In terms of cost-benefit ratio, it would appear that the watercourses
without lining are clearly superior since their improvement cost is
about 10% of that for watercourses with lining. However, at renovated
lined watercourses, distribution of net benefits at head, middle and tail
reaches is close to equal, which reflects a fair distribution of water
among users and justifies the investment.
(d)   No quantitative details are available yet for increases in cropping
intensity and crop yields. Qualitative reports indicate that cropping
intensities have increased in general. Similarly, crop yields have
shown a general increase.
(e)   In general, the M & E data indicate that there is some reduction in
irrigation time per unit area and irrigators' labor input on each irrigation
turn, and savings in water losses in the main system.
(f)    The performance of WUAs was also evaluated and found to be
unsatisfactory. According to WAPDA's summary report (page 15),
instead of trained community work specialists "Engineers or
Agriculturists, associated with the OFWM programme organized WUAs
in a target oriented environment where they had no choice but to
organize WUAs, to meet the target set forth for the improvement of
certain number of watercourses in a given time period."
Consequently, in most cases WUAs thus organized turned out to be
ineffective as the majority of the farmers and Executive Committee
members remained ignorant of their required role.
6.10     Cost Recovery. Cost recovery from beneficiaries has been a continuing
concern of IDA and a central issue in its dialogue with GOP and Provincial Governments
regarding investment in the irrigation sector. In this project, benefitting farmers were
expected to contribute unskilled labor (in Punjab, farmers also hired the masons) and
repay a certain percentage of the cost of materials required for watercourse renovation.
Repayment was to be made in ten semi-annual instalments (after each crop season)
following a two-year grace period. There have been problems in collecting these
payments in Punjab and Sind. The Provincial OFWM Directorates blamed this on the non-
availability of staff for collection, particularly when the number of renovated watercourses
and farmers involved became large. On average, there are 50 farmers on a watercourse,
10



and over 5,000 watercourses have been renovated under the project. Recognizing the
importance of cost recovery for the OFWM program, GOP and the Provincial
Governments held a special meeting in August 1989 and decided to transfer responsibility
for collection in Punjab and Sind to the Revenue Departments. In Baluchistan and NWFP,
with their smaller programs and satisfactory collection record, collection responsibility
remained with the OFWM field staff. The Revenue Departments have started collecting
and during negotiations of OFWM IlIl targets have been agreed for 90% recovery of
amounts due (by June 1992 for Punjab; by December 1993 for Sind).
6.11     Analysis of watercourse renovation costs in relation to number of beneficiaries
and command area shows that recovery of a percentage of cost has resulted in
inequitable charges per acre in some cases. The main reason for this inequity is the large
variation in command area on the one hand, and in cost of construction materials on the
other. An option to deal with this situation is to estimate net benefits of irrigation based
on a sample of operators of different size. Based on this estimate, it would be possible
to fix charges to be paid by beneficiaries in a more equitable manner.
6.12     To illustrate this point, a sample of watercourses (about 10%) was taken from
three out of four provinces. The results show that:
(i)   in Sind, material cost/acre varied from  PRs 133 to PRs 2,233
averaging PRs 644. Average cost recovery per acre at 30% of
material cost agreed for the province is PRs 193 with a standard
deviation of PRs 153 (Figure 1);
(ii)   in NWFP, material cost/acre varied from PRs 184 to PRs 7,534
averaging PRs 1,273. Average cost recovery per acre at 10% of
material cost agreed for the province is PRs 127 with a standard
deviation of PRs 135;
(iii)  in Punjab, material cost/acre varied from PRs 21 to PRs 933
averaging PRs 329. Average cost recovery per acre at 25% of
material cost agreed for the province is PRs 82 with a standard
deviation of PRs 49.
7. Project Sustainablllty
7.1      Maintenance of renovated watercourses is the responsibility of the WUAs. In
order to ensure such maintenance, the project had provided technical services through
the field teams to assist WUAs and member farmers in carrying out this responsibility.
However, while during construction of civil works WUA members were enthusiastic and
WUAs functioning at their peak, available information indicates that the Associations failed
to assume many of the post-improvement responsibilities intended to be delegated to
them, often including maintenance of works. Fortunately, this does not mean that
11



maintenance was not done. The final evaluation report for OFWM I states that while only
a small percentage of the 40 watercourses observed has been maintained through WUAs,
the vast majority is being maintained by the farmers on their own, and the rest by the
traditional khal committee (OFWM I PCR, para 3.34). Quite likely, the same holds true for
watercourses renovated under OFWM II. Reasons offered why WUAs fail to function as
planned are that (i) during the initial phase of organization, farmers are not fully informed
about the program and their role in it (see para 6.09 (f) above); and (ii) government
follow-up to encourage WUAs to carry out their responsibilities is inadequate. While
project sustainability does not appear to be at issue, the question remains why WUAs do
not function as intended and, if this is generally the case, what needs to be done to
achieve the intended purpose. If M&E had been carried out under the project as planned
(para 11.2), possibly at least a partial answer to this question could be given. Clearly,
under follow-up projects more attention will have to be paid to this matter.
8. Bank Performance
8.1      IDA performance during project formulation and appraisal was generally
satisfactory. IDA provided adequate resources for project processing. It would have
been preferable if more safeguards had been included in the SAR selection criteria for
watercourse renovation in order to avoid renovation which would not bring significant
reduction in conveyance losses.
8.2      IDA's supervision effort was generally adequate. A total of eight supervision
and short review missions were fielded over the six-year implementation period. However,
an additional supervision mission between March 1990 (the last supervision mission) and
December 1991 (credit closing date) might have been useful, given that the rating for
Project Management Performance (3) had not improved since the November/December
1987 supervision mission. Fairly good continuity of supervision staff was maintained.
8.3      Lessons to be learned, which may be relevant to the Bank as well as the
Borrower, include the following:
(i)      amending the DCA to allow GOP to open four Special Accounts
for each Province was useful, facilitating the flow of funds and
expediting project implementation (see para 5.3);
(ii)     application of more rigid criteria for both selection of watercourses
to be renovated and sections to be lined would be needed to
ensure proper implementation of project concept and avoid
renovation which may not result in significant water saving and
hence increased productivity (see para 5.4);
(iii)    greater attention should be paid to WUAs to ensure that they can
function as intended (see para 7.1);
12



(iv)     use of expatriate consultants should be limited to specializations
for which expertise is not readily available locally (see para 11.1);
(v)      greater attention must be paid to establishing an effective M&E
system, the results of which are essential for follow-up activities
and the assessment of project impact (see para 11.2).
9. Borrower Performance
9.1      The Provincial OFWM Directorates' performance was satisfactory in completing
physical works. Otherwise, Borrower performance was not as satisfactory since it fell
short in several areas of project implementation, particularly the execution of monitoring
and evaluation, the selection of watercourses to be renovated, the handling of WUAs, and
procurement.
9.2      Various IDA supervision missions have been critical of the Borrower's
performance. The last supervision mission (March 1990) reported: "In spite of the good
progress of project civil works, several institutional problems and managerial difficulties
still remain including cost recovery; functional weakness of WUAs following watercourse
renovation; ineffective demonstration of proper use of saved water from watercourse
improvement; the tendency of growing negligence of quality control over civil works as
the OFWM program expands; vacancies of sanctioned posts in FWMC and Baluchistan
OFWM Directorate; and GOP's non-response to IDA's continuous requests for information
about actions on Auditor General's recommendations in FY87 and FY88 Audit Report
relating to IDA Credit operated by FWMC."
9.3      From the Borrower's point of view, the most important lesson to be learned
is that one would need to proceed with caution in implementing the follow-up OFWM IlIl
(effective May 1992), and should not underestimate the experience gained from OFWM II
especially as regards the need: (i) for application of more rigid criteria, both for selecting
watercourses to be renovated and watercourse sections to be lined; and (ii) to investigate
the reasons for the reported failure of WUAs to assume the responsibilities intended to
be delegated to them.
10. Project Relatlonship
10.1     Through its long association with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MINFAC) and Provincial OFWM Directorates in OFWM I and other projects
with OFWM components, IDA developed a good working relationship. However, this did
not prevent problems arising from the Federal Water Management Cell's handling of
procurement, appointment and management of M & E consultants and technical experts,
and its Special Account. These problems resulted in implementation delay (procurement
of laser controlled leveling equipment), lack of important information (M&E, in particular),
13



and for a while threatened timely Board presentation of OFWM IlIl (management of Special
Account). The presence of the Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan (RMP) and RMP staff
relationship with GOP and Provincial Governments have been generally appreciated by
the Borrower as they often facilitated resolving project-specific problems.
10.2     IDA and Borrower relationship with other relevant parties, including the
Provincial OFWM Directorates and consultants providing various services for the project,
has been satisfactory. There appears to have been no collaboration between the local
supervisory consultants and the expatriate TA consultants.
11. Consulting Services'/
11.1     Although general satisfaction with the performance of the project's supervisory
consultants was expressed by MINFAC, the Federal Water Management Cell, and the
Provincial OFWM Directorates, IDA had noted that performance had fallen somewhat
short of requirements in respect of quality control of civil works (see para 9.2). The
performance of the expatriate TA consultants (water management, training and M & E
specialists) was reported to be unsatisfactory by all four Provincial OFWM Directorates.
In this connection, the IDA review mission in 1988 noted that only two activities, i.e.,
Training of Masons, and Specific Training of Engineers for Foundation Design in NWFP
and Baluchistan, were carried out by the TA consultants. On the other hand, the Director;
General FWMC indicated that expatriate consultants were necessary to facilitate project
implementation as they were often able to act as a "catalyst". The expatriate consultants
contributed to the design of water storage tanks in NWFP and Baluchistan taking into
account the effect of seismicity; made comments on the water/cement ratios in the
cement mortars used in the lining of watercourses; provided sample computations for the
design of lift pumps and associated pipelines for tubewells; prepared theoretical
documents for monitoring and evaluation efforts; and prepared a national curriculum
guide for training masons. While it is possible that expertise required for the above may
not have been available within MINFAC or the Provincial OFWM Directorates, the PCR
mission believes that such expertise exists in Pakistan. The consultants could have
contributed significantly to the project by involving themselves in the monitoring and
evaluation program in a practical manner. The water management specialist could have
contributed to the project by concentrating on improvements in water application and
management at the farm level rather than designing small water storage tanks and
advising on water/cement ratios. Closer supervision by IDA might have been helpful in
this regard.
11.2     The performance of the local consultants for watercourse M & E was also
below appraisal expectations. The M & E contract was awarded in 1987 to a Joint
Venture that had no prior experience in this kind of work. There were several irregularities
in the consultants' operation which led to the cancellation of their contract with FWMC in
'/ Consultants' comments on this Section are in the Attachment following Part Ill.
14



November 1988.1/ Audits of FWMC's accounts revealed irregular payments to the Joint
Venture (later recovered). In retrospect, monitoring and evaluation is probably an area
where a combination of local and expatriate consultants would have been more
productive. WAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, which had
been responsible for monitoring and evaluation of OFWM I, was requested to take over
the M & E program in July 1989. WAPDA reported major difficulties in reconciling the
methodology adopted by the Joint Venture and the data collected by them in their pre-
improvement benchmark surveys. This is a rather serious situation since M & E results
are critical for follow-up activities and the assessment of project impact (paras 6.1 to 6.5).
Both IDA and GOP should supervise the execution of this program carefully in any follow-
up project.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1     The SAR, the DCA and the relevant Project Agreements were generally
sufficient to provide a basic framework for IDA, the Borrower and the project implementing
agencies.
12.2     Information for the preparation of the PCR, except for the evaluation of project
impact and the determination of detailed actual project cost, was readily available. The
supervisory consultants developed a good system for monitoring physical progress of
works, but measurements and impact evaluation by other consultants were below SAR
expectations. After about twelve years of OFWM activities, there should be a scientific
basis to evaluate the impact of such projects, especially when mechanisms were built in
by IDA to obtain such information at the preparation and appraisal stages. A draft PCR
prepared by the supervisory consultants (February 1992) was useful reference material.
/  According to FWMC, no comment could be obtained from this firm because it disintegrated following
the death of one of its two owners.
15



PART II
1. World Bank Performance
1.   Design & Appraisal. After successful implementation of the OFWM Phase-I
Project, the Bank was instrumental in finalizing the OFWM-11 Project for the benefit of even
a larger number of farmers. In Phase-I the monitoring of the Project was conducted by
the respective Agricultural Departments of the Provinces which was found insufficient to
draw conclusions, but the Bank keeping in view the apparently positive impact of the
Phase-i Project took the initiative to evolve this larger Project. The Bank while appraising
the Phase-Il took notice of the shortcomings in Phase-I especially in the fields of
monitoring and evaluation system, role of Water User Associations (WUAs) and use of
latest technology like laser control equipment. The Bank also ensured a more effectfive
role at the Federal level so that appraisal and monitoring of progress in the Provinces
could be better streamlined. There was however one field where the Bank did not lay the
required emphasis and that relates to the socio-economic impact of the Project on the
farmers in particular and on the region in general. This role has now been accepted and
is being considered for all the future projects. In retrospect, it is heartening to note that
the overall performance of the Bank has been very enthusiastic and very beneficial for the
overall impact of the Project. The association of the Bank has helped at different levels
of the implementation in a very positive manner.
2.   Supervision. During the tenancy of the Project from February 1986 to December
1991 (including two extensions1l), there had been several supervisory missions to
monitor the implementation of the Project. There have been one-man missions and
multidisciplinary team missions who had been evaluating various technical and
organizational aspects of the Project. These missions took extensive field trips and
discussed execution problems with the field staff to appraise themselves with the
problems of the field. These problems were also discussed at length with the concemed
authorities both at the Provincial and Federal level in the wrap-up meetings, where many
recommendations were made and agreed by these supervisory missions. There was
however, one weakness that enough notice was not taken of the non-implementation of
the agreed recommendations. The Bank did not evolve a system to remedy this
weakness which resulted in sometimes not achieving the desired result of a particular
aspect or a particular work. Notwithstanding this, these supervisory missions of the Bank
had been a great success in monitoring the Project and removing many bottlenecks
encountered during its execution.
One two-year extension, granted in two one-year steps, and one one-year extension.
16



2. Borrower's Performance
3.   The On Farm Water Management II Project accomplished a commendable job in
achieving civil works targets but there were some difficulties in achieving consistency in
the expenditures between the Provinces throughout the project period. Punjab was
ahead in achieving targets whereas Balochistan remained behind schedule. The
performance in Sindh and NWFP could at best be called just satisfactory. Funds available
with the Provinces were not exhausted in a systematic way because except Punjab all
Provinces could not utilize their allocation because they could not achieve the anticipated
targets whereas Punjab had to request for retroactive financing due to its superpassing
the projected targets.
4.   Due to increased work load in the OFWM-11 Project, the staff could not collect
recovery upto the desired levels in Punjab and Sindh. During the project implementation
the task of recovery was ultimately transferred to Revenue Department which also did not
bring encouraging progress. It was observed that if legal authority of Revenue officer and
canal magistrate was entrusted to Water Management Officer/Assistant Director this could
help in improving the collection of recovery and also maintenance of the watercourses.
5.   Self sustaining and viable Water User Associations remained the problem
throughout the Project period. Maintenance of watercourses and better utilization of
saved water could only be attained through better coordination of water and non-water
inputs. There was some weakness from the Borrower in maintaining control over the
performance of WUAs.
3. Relations Between the Bank and the Borrower
6.   The Bank and the Borrower enjoyed largely harmonious relations both during the
evolution and execution stages. During the evolution stage, the experience gained in
Phase-I by both Bank and Borrower was pooled to prepare a more comprehensive and
workable project.
7.   During the execution stage, the relations were even more cordial and passed the
test of time when the Borrower's recommendations to replace the unwilling M&E
Consultants of the Project with WAPDA were accepted without delay. The Project was
twice extended on the recommendations of the Borrower without any hassles. The
Borrower also accepted the Bank's recommendations in effecting a better cost recovery
system. The suggestions made by the Bank with regard to the Katcha improvement of
the watercourses were by and large accepted by the Borrower.
8.   It can thus be safely concluded that the effectiveness of the relationship between
the Bank and the Borrower greatly helped in the implementation of the Project.
17



PART IlIl
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits"
Loan/Credit                            Purpose                       Year of       Status            Cotnuents
ritle                                                               Approval
OFWM Project        To increase agricultural production by effective  1981        Dec.1985   PCR issued June 198.
(Cr. 1163-PAK)      utilization of irrigtion watcr through renovation of
about 18,600 watercourses in selected irrigated
areas in all four provinces.
Comrand Water       To increase agricultural production through       1984        Ongoing    Closing expected Dec 92.
Management Project improved water management, along with supplying
(Cr. 1487-PAK)      agricultural services and non-water inputs in seven
sub-project areas totalling 510,000 ac located in all
four provinces.
Third OFWM Project To increase agricultural production by effective use  1991         -       Effective May 1992.
(Ln. 3327-PAK, Cr.  of water saved through renovation of about 7,700
2245-PAK)           watercourses, precision levclling of 55,000 ha and
construction of about 500 water storagc tanks in
the four provinces, FATA and Northern Areas.
1/ The following IDA-assisted irrigation and drainage projects also include OFWM components: Khairpur Tile
Drainage (Cr. 648-PAK); SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK); Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK); Left Bank
Outfall Drain (Cr. 1532-PAK); SCARP Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693-PAK); Second SCARP Transition (Cr.
2257-PAK).
2. Project Timetable
Item                               Date Planned                Date Revised                 Date Actual
Identification                     Sept. 1982 1/                    NA.                         NA.
Preparation                        Aug. 1983 1/                June 1984 2/                  Aug. 1984
Appraisal                          Oct. 1983 1/                 Oct. 1984 2/               Sept/Oct. 1984
Negotiations                       June 1984 1/                April 1985 2/                 April 1985
Board Approval                     Sept. 1984 1/                May 1985 2/                 June 6, 1985
Credit Signature                       NA.                          NA.                    Sept. 30, 1985
Credit Effectiveness               Dec. 1984 1/                     NA.                     Feb. 14, 1986
Credit Closing                     Dec. 31, 1988               Dec. 31, 1991                Dec. 31, 1991
1/ Pre-Project Brief, Feb. 1982.
2/ Project Brief, June 1984.
18



Comments
Major issues raised at each stage of the project cycle as recorded in the
Project Briefs, Issues Paper, Decision Memorandum, and Minutes of Negotiations.
Identification: No records concerning identification issues are available in the
project file. An identification mission was planned to be mounted as early as September
1982 when the OFWM I project was started (pre-project brief, February 1982). However,
whether the mission was mounted or not is not recorded in the project file.
Preparation: (i) How to improve the unsatisfactory performance of the
Federal Water Management Cell under OFWM l; (ii) need to re-evaluate existing cost
recovery arrangements for materials used in watercourse improvement with a view to
initiating a recovery program in NWFP and possibly increasing recovery in the other three
provinces; (iii) strengthening WUAs to improve maintenance of watercourses; and (Iv)
coordination between OFWM and the Extension Services.
Appraisal: (i) IDA financing for procurement of light vehicles assembled in
Pakistan; (ii) unattractiveness for international bidders of cement procurement (required
in small quantities monthly to avoid storage problems and quality deterioration); (iii) are
OFWM projects farmer self-help schemes with government subsidy, or government-
sponsored irrigation projects with cost recovery for beneficiaries; (iv) need to undertake
a study on cost recovery for NWFP (condition of credit negotiations); and (v) need to
increase IDA allocation from US$25.0 million to US$37.0 million. These issues were
resolved at the subsequent Decision Meeting and credit negotiations.
Negotiations: No unresolved issue left.
Board Presentation: No special conditions of Board Presentation were
foreseen.
19



3. Credit Dlsbursements
Cumultive Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FM16         FY17         FYN8         FY19          FY"           FY91         FY92
Appraisal Estimate
- SDR million                  83            19.9         32.0         34.8
- USS million                  8.5           19.8         31.7         345            -                          -
Actual 1/
- SDR million                  1.3           10.6         21.3         29.8          33.0         34.7         34.8
- USS million                  15            13.2        27.6          38.9          43.0         45.3         455
Actual as % of Appraisal
- SDR                           15           53           66            86            95           99           100
- USS                           18           67           87           113           125           131          132
Date of Final Disbursement:  September 14, 1991
1/ World Bank data.
20



4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievements '
Item                                        Unit            SAR Target            Actual         Actual as % of SAR
Target
Puidalx
- Field treams                              No.                 46                  46                  100
- Watercourse with lining                   No.               1,500               3,262                 217
- Watercourse without lining                No.                 20                  22                  110
- Precision land levelling                   Ha               9,700              17,124                 176
- Demonstration plots                       No.               1,200               4,953                 412
Sind4
- Field teams                               No.                 1S                  1S                  100
- Watercourse with lining                   No.                 450                 890                 198
- Watercourse without lining                No.                 20                  20                  100
- Precision land levelling                   Ha               4,500               3,880                  86
- Demonstration plots                       No.                 190                421                  221
NWFP
- Field teams                               No.                  6                  10                  167
- Watercourse with lining                   No.                 250                 517                 207
- Watercourse without lining                No.                 10                  20                  200
- Precision land levelling                   Ha               1,100               2,470                 244
- Deemonstrantion plots                     No.                 300                 561                 187
- Water storage tank                        No.                 12                  55                  458
Baluchistan:
- Field teams                                No.                 12                  17                 141
- Watercourse with lining                   No.                225                 488                  217
- Watercourse without lining                No.                 60                  106                 177
- Precision land levelling                   Ha                 700               2,397 2/              344 2/
- Demonstration plots                       No.                 130                313                  240
- Water storage tank                        No.                 60                 597                  995
Total (4 Provinces)
F-leld teams                               No.                 79                  88                  111
- Watercourse with lining                   No.               2,425               5,157                 212
- Watercourse without lining                No.                 110                 168                 152
- Precision land levelling                   Ha              16,000              25871                  162
- Demonstration plots                       No.               2,535               6,248                 246
- Water storage tank                         No.                72                  652                 905
Total length of lining                       Km                 NA                4,585                 NA
Total length of earthen improvement          Km                 NA               15,109                 NA
Total nuceas installed                       No.                NA               176,460                NA
Total culverts installed                     No.                NA                11,218                NA
1/ Based on 'Final Progress Report for January 1986 to December 1991' and draft PCR (February 1992) prepared by
the supervisory consultants.
2/ PCR mission was informed that no substantial PLL was carried out in Baluchistan, although the equipment was
procured according to Provincial OFWM staffs The mission was unable to resolve discrepancies between data
provided by the supervisory consultants and Baluchistan OFWM Directorate.
21



B. Consulting Services
SAR Estimrte                      Actual              Actual as E of SAR Estim_e
Local Supervisory Consultants        504 staff-months               783 staff-months                     155
Expatriate Consultants                54 staff-months               99 staff-months                      183
C. Training Program
SAR Targt                   Actual             Actual as % of SAR Taret
No. of Professionals trained                       NA                        612                         NA
No. of Sub-professionals trained                   NA                        674                         NA
No. of WUA Chairmen/Members trained                NA                       6,273                        NA
22



5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
Itemn                                   SAR 1/                          Actual 2/                 Actual as % of SAR
PRs million     USS million      PRs million    USS million        PRs             USS
Civil Works                      529.1             32.9            960.0           52.7            115            160
Equipment                         24.0              1.5             36.8           2.1             153            140
Technical Assistance              53.1              3.3             85.1            4.4            102            133
Training                           6.4              0.4             10.7            0.5            167            125
Supervision & Admin.              167.2            10.4            270.2           14.4            162            138
Parmers' Donated Labor            150.2             9.3            389.8           215            259             231
Total                          930.0             57J           1.7535            95.6           189             165
1/ Including price contingencies.
2/ Based on data estimated by the local supervisory consultants.
Comments
Primary factors contributing to the cost increase were the increase in physical
targets (e.g. renovation of watercourses increased from SAR target of 2,535 to 5,325) and
the overall increase in related costs, particularly farmers' labor contribution and
supervision and administration. In terms of US dollars, the increase was lower than in
terms of Rupees, reflecting the devaluation of the Rupee against the US dollar.
23



B. Project Financing
SAR Estimate
Domestic
Item                            Total Cost        Farmers       Government            IDA             % (IDA)
.................(USS miUion) ..
Civil Works                        42.2            13.8 I/           4.2              24.2              57
Equipment                           1.5              -               0.8              0.7               48
Technical Assistance                3.3              -               0.2               3.1               94
Training                            0.4                              0.1               0.3               70
Supervision & Admin.                10.4             -               4.2               6.2               60
Total                               57J            13J2              9.5              34.5
Actual (PCR Estimte)
Domestic 2/
Item                             Total Cost       Farmers       Government            IDA             % (FDA)
........................(USS million).
Civil Works                         74.2            26.7            11.5              36.0              48
Equipment                           2.1              -               1.1               1.0              48
Technical Assistance                4.4               .              0.6               3.8               86
Taining                             05               -               0.3               0.2               40
Supervision & Admin.                14.4             -               9.9               4.5               31
Total                               95.             26.7            234               45.5               47
l/ Of which USS45 million cash contribution and US93 million labor contribution.
2/ PCR mission estimate based on data provided by the project's supervisory consultants and IMA disbursement data.
24



6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                                     SAR Estimate                     PCR Estimate
(at ful development)
No. of Beneficiaries (farm families)                              90,000                           179,000
Benefitting Agricultural Area (ha)                               400,000                           894,000l/
Additional Ernployment Opportunities (million w/d p.a.)             25                              43
Incremental Crop Production (million tons):
- Paddy                                                            27.4                             303
- Wheat                                                            51.0                             81.4
- Cotton (seed cotton)                                             11.9                             20.8
- Sugarcane                                                        78.1                            184.32/
- Fodder (berseem)                                                229.2                           435.92/
- Orchards                                                                                         10.97/
- Other4'                                                           23                               5.0
Farm Income (Rs)5/
- per cropped area                                              3,78-6,336                       2,430-8,610
- per family workday                                               62-110                          40-126
1/ Cultivable command are provided by the supervisory consultants.
2/ Mainly resulting from substantially incrased cultivable command ara in Punjab.
3/ Apple in Baluchistan, plum in NWFP.
4/ Maize in NWFP; gam in Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan.
S/ In 1991-92 constant prices.
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Program/Project                                   SAR Estimate                            PCR Estimate
Punjab Program                                           21                                      25
Sind Program                                             26                                      18
NWFP Program                                             15                                       14
Baluchistan Program                                      25                                       11
Total Project                                            22                                      22
Underlying Assumptions (PCR Estimate)
(a)    Project Ufe and Phasing:  Twenty years, with full development
reached in project year 12 (FY97), seven years after project
completion, as assumed in the SAR. The analysis was carried out in
1991-92 constant prices.
25



(b)   Prices: Actual financial and economic prices used are presented in
Annex Table 3. Economic prices for internationally traded goods are
based on World Bank projections'/ and information from the
supervisory consultants, while those for non-traded goods are based
on average 1991-92 domestic financial prices. For all main traded
outputs, except wheat, export parity prices have been used; import
parity prices were used for wheat and fertilizer. The market wage for
unskilled labor (Rs 35/workday) has been discounted by 25% to allow
for periods of slack demand. Other domestic prices and price
components have been translated into border prices by applying a
standard conversion factor of 0.86.
(c)    Project Costs: Actual project costs provided by the supervisory
consultants (Annex Table 1) were converted to constant 1991-92
terms (Annex Table 2) by adjusting both local and foreign costs for
inflation. Local costs were expressed in border Rupees by applying
a conversion factor of 0.86.
(d)   Project Benefits: Benefits consist of the estimated incremental crop
production due to renovation of watercourses combined with other
project improvements (water storage tanks, PLL, demonstration plots,
water management). To assess these benefits, the SAR farm models
were used, with addition of orchards in Baluchistan and NWFP (based
on OFWM Ill SAR assumptions) and updated technical parameters
and prices. Extimated cropped area, cropping intensities and yields
are presented in Annex Tables 4, 5 and 6, respectively. Financial farm
budgets are given in Annex Table 7.
(e)    Economic Rate of Return: Actual economic costs and re-estimated
benefits over the project's life and corresponding ERRs are in Annex
Table 8 (total project and provincial programs). A comparison of
project costs and returns per hectare estimated by SAR and PCR is
in Annex Table 9.
Comments
Given the data situation, the results of the economic re-evaluation should be
treated with caution.
The Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia Project, January 1992 and other recent SARs for Pakistan.
26



C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)
D. Studies
Study ritle                          Purpose as Dfined at Appraisal                   Status            Impact of Study
Watercourse Monitoring and  A case study approach calling for intensive     Interim Report was issued   Yet to be seen
Evaluation' undertaken by the  monitoring of a limited number of watercourses in September 1991, and
Water & Power Devlopment  which reptesent the principal copping pattrns Ftnal Report in September
Authority (WAPDA)             within the seven agro-climatic zones and the  1992.
tank irrigation system in Baluchistan. Tne
progam would specifically cover the pilot
watemourse renovation without pucca lining.
Comments
Watercourse M & E was originally contracted to a Joint Venture in April 1987.
Because of unsatisfactory performance of this firm, the contract was terminated in
November 1988. Thereafter, WAPDA was appointed as M & E consultant. The work of
WAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate started in July 1989 and
covered four crop seasons, kharif 1989 to rabi 1990/91.1/
1,    Consultants' commernts are In the Attachment following Part 111/81.
27



7. Status of Covenants
DCA                             Covenant                 Deadline for Compliance               Status
Sec. 2.02(b)    Open a special account maintained in US        Unspecified       In compliance. This setion was
dollars at the National Bank of Pakistan.                        revised to open four special
accounts, one in each Provincial
capital.
Sec. 3.04       Selection criteria for watercourse             Unspecified       Substantially complied with.
renovation to be satisfactory to IDA.
Sec. 3.03       Civil works designs and specifications         Unspecified       Substantially complied with.
satisfactory to IDA.
Sec. 4.01(b)    Furnisb to IDA annual audit reports by    Within six months of end  In compliance, although delay in
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.   of each fiscal year    submission observed in some yea.
Schedule 3      Employment of supervisory consultants and      Unspecified       In compliance, but the first
other experts for project implementation                         consulting firm enpgaed for M & E
and M & E to be satisfactory to IDA.                             proved to be unsatisfactory.
Project
Agreements
Se 3.01         Maintain separate project accounts to be   Throughout project period In compliance.
audited annually.                      and retain SOB records
until one year after closing
date
Sec. 3.02       Recovery of at least 25% (Baluchistan,         Unspecified        Partially complied with.
Punjab), 30% (Sind) and 10% (NWFP) of
construction material costs to be put into
effect
Sec. 3.03 & 3.04  Strengthening of OFWM-related capability     Unspecified        Substantially complied with.
of the extension services and coordination
between OFWM and extension.
28



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        Planned             Revised            Actual
Through Appraicsa                                               NA                  NA                 68.2
Appraisal through Board Approval                                NA                  NA                 23.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness                            NA                  NA                NA
Supervision                                                     NA                  NA               175.3 1/
NA.                NA                267.0
Induding 8.3 staff weeks spent by FAO/CP staff for PCR preparation.
B.  Missions'/
Stge of Projeet   Month/Year      No. of     Days in   Specia_ization Repreented 2/     Perfonnanue      Type of
Cylde                             Peons        Fild                                   RatingStatus 31  probbm 4/
Identification       NA.           NA          NA                  NA
Preparation         Aug.84         NA          NA                  NA-
Apprisal          Sept/OctL84        4         NA            AG, AG, EC, EN                  -              -
Supervision 1     Oct/NNov.85        4          4 5/          AG, AG, EN(2)                  1           Mgt(2)
Supervision 2    April/May 86        2         lo 5/              AG, EC                     1           Mgt(2)
Supervision 3     Nov/Dec.7          3          30                AG, EN                     2           Mgt(3)
Supervision 4     Jan/Feb.89         3          25             AG, EN, AD                    2           Mgt(3)
Supervision 5      March 90          3          25        AG, AG(PM, EN(P/I)                 2           Mgt(3)
1/ In addition to the frre full supervision missions listed above, there were three short missions (July 86, March 87 and June 88)
to review project implementation.
2/ AD - Auditor, AG - Agriculturist; BC - Economist; EN - Engineer; P/T - Part-time participation.
3/ 1 - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problemL
4/ Mgt (2) - Despite some shortcominA, project management is capabe of doing its job with only moderate problems
Mgt (3) - Major deficiencies in project managment which will affect its ability to do the job, but acceptable measures are being
taken to strengthen managerial capadty.
Estimated, because mision worked on several signments but did not specify the time spent on each.
29






Attachment
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1603-PAK)
CONSULTANTS' COMMENTS
31






Attachment                  No.F.1-3/84-Plan('VM)
Page 1                    Government of  Pakistan
Agriculture Research Division
(FeAeral Water Management Cell)       ,  .        -\.'
14-N(Riaz Plaza)Almarkaz F/F,
Islamabqd,the 5th Noverter,1992.
To,
Mr. Rashed-i.:-Qayyum,
Project Advisor,
World Bank,
Islamabad.
Subject:-      ON-FARM WAT3R MANAIENZT (OFWX')-II PROJT!C'V(CR.1603-PAK:)
REVISED P?0JECT COYP?LETICN REDORT(PL2).
The undersigned is directed to refer to y-ur letter
dated l1th Oct,1992 on the above noted subject and to forward here-
with comments of NESPAK and WAPDA consul2tants on the following paras
of the project Completion Report.
i   Evaluatien cummary, Page 1(Para 3)
Part-1, Pages 13-15OPara 10-12) and
ii  Part-III pages 25 (Section 6D studies).
With best refards.
(Amir Nawaz Khan
Irri -atn on Acron-mist
33



Attachment                                                                Mf5Ap4K'
Page 2
SUBJECT                    PERFORMANCE OF SUPERVISORY CONSULTANTS
DURING OFWMl-lr PROJECT.
MINFAC, FWMIC and provincial OFV1M1 Directorates has
expressed general satisfaction with the performance of Project's Supervisory
Consultants, however IDA had noted that performance had fallen some what
short of requirements in respect of quality control of civil works.
Limited staff of Supervisory Consultants did consid-
erable persistent efforts to control the quality of civil works scattered
over the large area in each province. The quality of civil works were qener-
ally satisfactory, however some instances of poor quality works were also
observed which were notified/reported to concerned directorates and also in
quarterly progress reports. The reported shortfall were checked again to
ensure the completion of works according approved standard and specification.
Some of the reasons for low quality of civil works
observed on some sites were as under
1.        The main problem in quality was procurement of
A class standard size bricks mentioned in "OFIt1
National Standard for practices and materials"
MINFAC of June, 1980. The standard size bricks
are unavailable in most areas of Pakistan. The
presently available first class bricks in Pakistan
can meet the specification for small civil works
like watercourse/water tank etc. Now this problem
has solved as World Bank has revised the specifi-
cation for bricks in OFW1-I1I, according to
prevailing field conditions.
34



Attachment                                                                         P4 .
Page 3
2.        The most OF',IM staff responsible for execution and
supervision of civil works were not adequately
qualified and trained.
3.        Due to expanded OFWM pronramme and un-reasonable
targets, nentleman responsible for sunervision of
civil works could not supervise the jobs properly
as he works on three-four scattered sites simultan-
eously.
4.        Untrained masons were employed.
35



Attachment                                                VVI9P0 A-
Page 4
WATERCOURSE MONITORING AND EVALUATION DIRECTORATE
COMMENTS ON PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN SECOND OFWM PROJECT
(CR 1603 - PAK)
Evaluation Summary - Para 3
Com..2ents: WM&ED took over the post evaluation of OFWM-II in
July 1989 when the sample selection, methodology and benchmark
data collection had already been completed. Though in the
Agreement  (gppendix-J),  an  expatriate  expert  was  to  be  rnade
available for 6 months for consultation/discussion for monitoring
and evaluation activities but the two visiting M&E experts of T'
Consultants  only  made  field  visits  and  held  discussions  with
WM&ED Staff for couple of days. WM&ED by that time, had prepared
7Lwo Interim Reports but no contribution was made by the visiting
experts to improve issued reports. It is not understandable that
outcorne of M&E has been rated as below expectation without seeing
the Final Report issued by the WM&ED. It is mentioned that due to
inclusion and enumeration of  100 percent farms on each sample
watercourse for agro-socio-economic variables (750 questionnaires
per crop season), the data entry, processing and analysis
consumed more than a year which resulted in delay of the Final
Report.
Project Relationship - Para 10.1
Comments:   The WM&ED started facing delays in reimbursement
of   the  expenditure   soon   after   the  full   utilization  of
mobilization  advance.  These  delays  especially  from  June  1991
onward created serious problems for WM&ED for meeting in time the
essential expenditures including the establishment charges.
36



Attachment                                                     4,0fPA
Page 5
Para 10.2
Comments: Not related to WM&ED.
ConsultiL f_Services - Para 11
Comments:     WM&ED  fully  agrees  with  the  PCR  Mission
Concerning involvement of expatriate TA Consultants in M&E
Programme.
Para 11.2
Comments:    WM&ED  has  the  potential  and  developed  the
capabilities in the areas of M&E design methodology, data
collection, processing/analysis and reporting. Further,. short-
term expatriate consultants are available to the WM&ED under
various projects  (D-IV,  BMIAD,  ISRP-II,  OFWM-III,  etc.)  being
evaluated by it.
Project Documentation and Data - Para 12
Par! 12.1
Comments: Not related to monitoring and evaluation.
Para 12.2
Comments:  The reasons for delay in submission of Final M&E
Report have been given against Para 3 of Evaluation Summary. The
shortcomings and limitations in the benchmark data collected by
the  previous  M&E  consultants  (AAJV)   have  influenced  the
comparative analysis. In addition, these limitations have
re.trained the before-after project implementation comparison.
Part III Page 25 (Selection 6D-Studies)
Comments:   The Final M&E Report in three volumes has been
issued.
37



93- 1-29 ; 14:45  ;             KOREA CONSULTANTS INT'L.       ;# 1
Attachment
Page 6
) KOREA CONSULTANTS INTERNATIONAL
Ca  An pma.i-. 1f"A46*4
Yeongdong P. 0. Box 1574 Seoul, Korea
Telephone:546-6181/6 Telex: 23218 Fax: 546-6187
FAX To             001-1-202-4771871
Ref No.             KCI93-011
Date:              January 11, 1993
Attn               Mr. R. Ali
Chief SA3AG,
Intbafrad, World Bank
Re                  PCR of OFWM-II Project, Credit 1603-Pak
First of all, it is our sorrow to inform you that Dr. Ki Seung Park passed away on
December 23, 1992.
Please be informed that our comment on your draft PCR was faxed to GOP as quoted
here below
"Quote"
FAX To             001-92-51-853967
Ref No.            KC193-005
Date               January 6, 1993
Attn               Mr. Amir Nawaz Khan
Irrigation Agronomist
FWMC, Agriculture Research Div., GOP
Dear Sir,
Subject: OFW -rl (CR1603-PAK)-PCR-Consu1tants Comments
This is referred to your letter of November 26 concerning subject matter which was
delivered to us by TNT Skypak on December 17, 1992,
As to the performance of expatriate consulting services described in paragraph 11. 1
on page 14 of the Draft PCR, your kindly attention is invited to the fact that;
Firstly,   apart from the expatriate consultants' activities described in the PCR, the
said consultants have invested lion's share of their efforts in conducting in
a practical manner on-the-spot training and monitoring and evaluation to the
farmers as well as the officials concerned throughout the provinces of the
project. Insufficient was the follow-up on the part of trainees and the lack
of evidence in writing due to the attribute of on-the-spot training.
Secondly, the water management specialist had done a great deal for the improvements
in water application and management at the farm level and those were all
documented and reported to the provincial governments concerned.
It is our firm belief that you will be with us in the end regarding verifiable facts and
points raised as above.
Sincerely yours,
Baik June Sung
President
Korea Consultants International
"Unquote"
Best Regards                                    s/AI                    //R
Dong Wook Chang                                            11 /  Dm1 o d,
Executive Vice President             Lad No.
Korea Consultants International
38
JAKARTA INDON1ESIA ISLAMABAD.-PAX1STAN DHAKA 8ANGLADESH MANILA PHILIPPINES KATHMANDU-NEPAL RIYADHISAUDI ARABIA SAINT LOUIS- SENGAL



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr.1603-PAK)
Annex Table 1: Project Costs by Province and Expenditure Category
(Rs Million)
1985-86    1986-87    1987-88    1988-89    1989-90    1990-91              TOTAL      TOTAL
(USS M)
CIVIL WORKS                                  108.68      237.30      262.84       150.96      156.61       44.55        960.94    52.72
PUNJAB                                     76.15      192.98      204.47       77.84       66.35         0.00        617.79
SIND                                       17.01       23.84       24.36       26.11       32.06        11.61        135.00
NWFP                                       14.54        8.08       21.87       28.09       31.09        11.58        115.25
BALUCHISTAN                                 0.98       12.39       12.13       16.72       23.32       21.36          86.91
FWMC (TDF)                                  0.00        0.00        0.00        2.20        3.80         0.00          6.00
FARMERS' LABOR                                53.59       95.72       98.69       69.90        61.19       10.71        389.80    21.50
PUNJAB                                     43.01       82.04       79.78       47.70       39.79        0.00         292.32
SIND                                        5.74        7.11        9.36       11.68        9.44         3.77         47.10
NWFP                                        4.54        3.12        6.15        6.74        7.46         2.80         30.81
BALUCHISTAN                                 0.30        3.45        3.40        3.78        4.50         4.14         19.57
EQUIPMENT                                      8.40        8.21        3.67        14.20        2.18        0.16         36.82      2.06
PUNJAB                                      4.25        3.02        2.68        0.15        0.00        0.00          10.10
SIND                                        2.27        0.09        0.94        3.06        0.11         0.00          6.46
NWFP                                        0.43        0.03        0.00        0.68        0.54         0.16          1.84
BALUCHISTAN                                 1.45        0.00        0.05        1.70        0.64         0.00          3.84
FWMC (TDF + FWMC + Provinces)               0.00        5.07        0.00        8.61        0.89         0.00         14.57
SUPERVISION & ADMINISTRATION                  26.30       44.72       64.15        50.70       56.22       28.10        270.19    14.42
PUNJAB                                     12.64       22.25       29.18       28.99       27.65         0.00        120.71
SIND                                        3.67        7.21        8.70        8.88        9.73        10.38         48.57
NWFP                                        2.85        3.01        1.80        3.22        5.99         2.90         19.77
BALUCHISTAN                                 2.31        2.32        4.09        5.00        5.55         7.42         26.70
FWMC                                        4.83        9.93       20.38        4.60        7.30         7.40         54.44
TRAINING                                       0.06        0.01        0.00         0.00       10.66        0.00         10.72      0.50
PUNJAB                                      0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00
SIND                                        0.00        0.01        0.00        0.00       10.66         0.00         10.66
NWFP                                        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00
BALUCHISTAN                                 0.06        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.06
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & EVALUATION (FWMC)   0.43           16.40        18.75       14.54       16.24       18.69         85.05      4.40
TOTAL COST                                   197.47      402.35      448,09      300.30       303.09      102.21      1.753.51    95.61
PUNJAB                                    136.05      300.29      316.11      154.68      133.79         0.00      1,040.92
SIND                                       28.70       38.25       43.36       49.73       62.00        25.76        247.79
NWFP                                       22.36       14.24       29.82       38.73       45.08        17.44        167.67
BALUCHISTAN                                 5.10       18.17       19.68       27.21       34.00        32.92        137.08
FWMC                                        5.26       31.40       39.13       29.95       28.23       26.09         160.06
Source: Project supervisory consultants.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr. 1603-PAX)
Annex Table 2a: Project Cost Stream in Current Rs Million
1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1992-91    ITL
Civil Works                         108.68    237.30    252.84    150.96    156.61           44.55    960.94
Equipment                              8.40       8.21       3.67      14.20       2.18       0.16      36.82
Supervision & Administration         26.30       44.72      64.15      50.70      56.22      28.10    270.19
Training                              0.06        0.01       0.00       0.00      10.66       0.00      10.73
Technical Assistance                  0.43       16.40      18.75      14.54      16.24      18.69      85.05
Farmers' Labor                       53.59       95.72      98.69      69.90      61.19      10.71    389.80
TOTAL COST                          197.46    402.36    448.10    300.30    303.10    102.21  1.753.53
Punjab                           136.05    300.29    316.11    154.68    133.79            0.00  1.040.92
Sind                              28.70      38.25      43.36      49.73       62.00      25.75    247.80
NWFP                              22.36      14.24      29.82      38.73       45.08      17.44    167.67
Baluchistan                        5.10      18.17      19.68      27.21       34.00      32.92    137.08
FWMC                               5.26      31.40      39.13      29.95       28.23      26.09    160.06
Annex Table 2b: Project Cost Stream in Constant 1991-92 Rs Million
1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91   1991-92
LOCAL COSTS
In Current Rs                       118.34    251.80    289.40    185.01    199.54           71.99
Local Inflation Index                60.54       65.99      72.12      78.76      83.64      92.59    100.00
In Constant Rs                      195.46    381.58    401.27    234.91    238.57           77.75
Economic Costs (SCF-0.86)           168.10    328.16    345.09    202.02    205.17           66.86
FOREIGN COSTS
In Current Rs                        79.12    150.56    158.70    115.29    103.56           30.22
MtV Index                            75.97       82.05      89.02      91.83      94.10      97.65    100.00
Economic Costs                      104.15    183.49    178.28    125.54    110.05           30.95
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                  272.25    511.65    523.37    327.56    315.22           97.81
40



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr. 1603-PAK)
Annex Table 3: Financial and Economic Prices
FINANCIAL                   ECONOMIC                    Source for
(Constant 1991-92 Rupees)             Economic
Unit     1991-92       1985-86  1991-92  1998-99  2004-05          Prices
OUTPUTS
Basmati Rice (paddy)  kg          3.75         6.50      5.60     5.70      5.80           (3]
Other Rice (paddy)    kg          1.91         3.20      3.09     2.83      2.58          I1l
Wheat                  kg         2.80         5.20      4.73     6.09      5.61           (11
Maize                  kg         4.50         3.50      3.70     3.80      3.90           (3]
Seed Cotton            kg         5.88        11.00    11.82    12.47    12.20            (1]
Sugarcane              kg         0.43         0.39      0.33     0.56      0.60          I11
Berseem (fodder)       kg         0.25         0.22      0.22     0.22      0.22           (1]
Gram                   kg         6.00         5.16      5.16     5.16      5.16           (21
Apple                  kg         9.55         8.22      8.22     8.22      8.22           [31
Plum                   kg         5.06         4.35      4.35     4.35      4.35           (31
INPUTS
Basmati Seed           kg         5.25         4.52      4.52     4.52      4.52           (2]
Other Rice Seed        kg         3.15         3.90      3.86     3.54      3.23          I11
Wheat Seed             kg         3.30         6.13      5.57     7.18      6.61           (1]
Maize Seed             kg         4.30         3.70      3.70     3.70      3.70           (21
Cotton Seed            kg         7.25        11.19    12.02    12.68    12.41            [11
Sugarcane Cuttings    kg          0.44         0.39      0.33     0.56      0.60          I1l
B3rseem Seed           kg        17.95        15.44    15.44    15.44    15.44             12]
Gram Seed              kg         9.00         7.74      7.74     7.74      7.74           (21
Fertilizer
Nitrogen            kg         8.00        11.50    12.89    13.12    12.32            (11
Phosphates          kg        10.00        10.50     9.39    10.65    10.50            El]
Pesticides         Applic./ha
Cotton                       500          430.00   430.00   430.00   430.00        (21 and (11
Sugarcane                     37           31.82    31.82    31.82    31.82
Paddy                         86           73.96    73.96    73.96    73.96
Wheat                         86           73.96    73.96    73.96    73.96
Bullock            Plough./ha   85            73.10    73.10    73.10    73.10        (21 and (4]
LABOR
Unskilled Labor    Workday       35           26.25    26.25    26.25    26.25             15]
Notes:
(11 SAR for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project, January 1992.
[2] Derived from corrasponding financial prices using an SCF of 0.86 as calculated in the
government's draft PCR for the Second On-Farm Water Management Project. February 1992.
(3] 1991-92 prices derived from 1990-91 prices used in Third On-Farm Water Management
Project (OFWM-III) SAR, May 1991.
[4] Estimated financial price per ploughing based on a price of PRa 101 used in the
government's draft PCR and a price of PRa 45 used in SARs (OFWM-III and Fordwah
Eastern Sadiqia).
(5] Financial price from SAR for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project, January 1992,
discounted by 25I to allow for periods of slack labor.
41



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr.1603-PAK)
Annex Table 4: Estimated Command and Cropped Area (ha)
CCA        |            Cropped Area
Farm Models            |  SAR       PCR 1/ I       SAR                PCR 2/       I
I l                 I  W/O        W        W/O        W
| PUNJAB 3/             I                    I
| COTTON-WHEAT FGW         78,720   218,190    96,038  100,761  266,192   272,738
| COTTON-WHEAT SGW      | 65,280   178,517 I 54,182   60,710  148,169   157,095
| MIXED CROPPING FGW    | 96,000   264,471 | 117,120  122,880  322,655   330,588
| SIND                  I                    I
| COTTON-WHEAT FGW         33,600    37,302 | 40,380   43,680   44,762    46,627 |
| RICE-WHEAT FGW           46,920    95,922 | 46,920   52,550   95,922   101,677 |
|NWFP                   I                    I
| MIXED CROPPING FGW       40,460    50,800 | 44,506   48,552   55,880    57,277 |
PLUM ORCHARD 4/                -         - _-                -        -     1,143 |
| BALUCHISTAN           I                    I
| RICE-WHEAT FGW        | 37,800    48,524 | 37,800   42,336   47,796    50,707
APPLE ORCHARD 5/       I       -  -_               -         -      728       728|
|   TOTAL               | 398,780   893,726 | 436,946  471,469  982,104 1,018,580 |
Notes:
1/ Estimates provided by the supervisory consultants.
2/ See Annex Table 7.
3/ FGW - fresh groundwater; SGW = saline groundwater.
4/ Newly established.
5/ Existing.
42



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr.1603-PAK)
Annex Table 5: Cropping Intensities (X)
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__-------------
FARM  MODELS                   |                    SAR                                    PCR 1/
I       W/O        W       Incremental          W/O          W       Incremental I
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_
I PUNJAB
COTTON-WHEAT FGW              j        122       128            6         |    122         125            3
| COTTON-WHEAT SGW              I         83        93           10         |     83          88            5
| MIXED CROPPING FGW            |        122       128            6         |    122         125            3
SIND
------------     -----------
| COTTON-WHEAT FGW              |        120       130           10         I    120         125            5        I
I RICE-WHEAT FGW                I        100       112           12         I    100         106            6        I
|NWFP
| MIXED CROPPING FGW            I        110       120           10         |   110         115             5        I
| BALUCHISTAN                   I
| RICE-WHEAT FGW                I        100       112           12         |    100         106            6        |
1/ Mission estimates based on sample M&E measurements by WAPDA.
43



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr. 1603-PAK)
Annex Table 6: Crop Yields for Ex-Post Economic Analysis (kg/ha)
PUNJAB                                          SIND                 BALUCHISTAN          NWFP
Crop                          Cotton Wheat      Cotton Wheat      Mixed Cropping      Cotton Wheat       Rice Wheat      Rice Wheat      Mixed Cropping
(FGW)             (SGW)             (FGW)               (FGW)            (FGW)      (FGW), Orchard         (FOW)
Rice (fine)l/        W/o         1.210                 -                1,340                  -                -                 -                -
W          1,340                  -               1,500                  -                -                 -                -
Rice (coarse)A/      W/O         1,750                 -                2,070              2,070           2,180              2,180            1,800
W          1,975                  -               2,280              2,280            2,300             2,300            1,980
Cotton               W/O         1,235             1,200                1,230              1,360                -                 -                -
W          1,310             1,250                1,300              1,500                -                 -                -
Wheat                W/O         1,800             1,700                1,700              1,900            1,900             1,900            1,350
w          1,900             1,900                1,900              2,000            2,000             2,000            1,500
Sugarcane            W/O        40,750            38,000              39,500              34,700                -                 -          39,500
W         44,000            43,000               42,700             36,300                -                 -           42,700
Berazm (fodder)    W/O          29,600            26,000              29,600             24,700           24,700            24,700           24,700
W         31,100            27,500               31,100             25,900           25,900            25,900           25,900
Other CropsV/        W/O           520               500                  520                480              480               480            1,280
w            570                550                 570                530              530               530            1,360
Orchardsa/           W/O             -                 -                    -                  -                -            12,000                -
w               -                 -                   -                  -                -            13,000           11,000
/   Paddy. Fine rice is Basuati and coarse rice in regular.
V    Other crops represented by grmn in Punjab, Sind and Baluchiatan; and maize in NWFP.
3    AppLe in Baluchistan, plm in NWFP.
Source: SAR. OFWH-III SAR for orchards.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr. 1603-PAR)
Annex Table 7: Summ ry of Farm Budgets 1/ 2/
|  Cropped    |    Gross        |     Input       | Net Valueo    |              NVP  IN   per  |
| Farm Models 2/                |    Area            Value of    |    Costs        |  Production   |  Per Cropped  | Family   I
(ha)     |  Production   |        3/        I     (NVP)      |    Hectare    | Workday  |
|SAR   PMR       SAR      PCR      SA      PCR   | SA        PC        SAR     P     SAR   PCMP
IPU JABI                                                        IIIII
I COTTON-WHEAT FGW (5 ha)       I               I                I                 I                I                I            I
|  - with project               | 6.4   6.25  | 57,831  43,918 | 17,895  21,062 | 39,935  22,857 | 6.240   3,657 I 110    64 |
I  - incremental                I 0.3   0.15  | 6,484   3,551 | 2,942   2,600 | 3,541           951 |   553      152 |  8      3 |
|COTTON-WHEAT SGW (6S) h )                                       I                I                 I                |            I
|  - with project               I 5.6   5.28  I 48,412  37,057 I 12,933  15,604 | 35,479  21,453 I 6,336   4,063 I 102    65 |
|  - incremental                I 0.6   0.30  | 7,657   4,603 I 2,418   2,066 | 5,239   2,537 |   936            480 |  3      8 a
|MIXED  ROPPING FGW (5h) h                      I                                 |                 |                | 
|  - with project               | 6.4   6.25  | 55,618  43,498 | 17,248  20,189 | 38,370  23,310 | 5,995   3,729 | 107    65 |
- incremental               | 0.3   0.15       5 5,962   4,094 I 3,320   2,744 | 2,642   1,351 |   413       216     8 8    4 |
|SIND
|COTTON-WHEAT FW (5hc) h                        I                I                 I                I                I            I
Ln                 |  - with project                | 6.5   6.25  | 52,803  40,987 | 18,952  21,282 | 33,851  19,705 | 5,208   3,153    94    55 I
I  - incremental                | 0.5   0.25  | 6,895   4,165 | 3,995   3,143 | 2,900   1,022            4 446   164     a 8   3 |
|RICE-WHEAT FGW (5 ha)
|  - with project               | 5.6   5.30  | 31,488  25,586 | 9,772  12,702 i 21,716  12,884 | 3,878   2,430 | 62    40 |
|  - incremental                I 0.6   0.30  | 4,803   2,836 | 2,180   1,969 I 2,623           867 I    468     164 I  0      3
| MIXED CROPPING FGW (2 ha)     I               I                I                I                 I                I            I
|  - with project               | 2.4   2.30  | 15,198  14,156    4 4,053   5,129 | 11,145   9,027 | 4,643   3,925 | 77    66 |
I  - incremental                ! 0.2   0.10  I 2,064   1,543 I   591         477 I 1,473   1,066 I   614        463 I  2      8
|MIXED CROPPING WITH ORCHARD   j
|  -with project 4/             |   -   2.30  |        -  26,000 |      -   6,197 |      -  19,803 |       -   8,610 |  -   126 |
|  -incremental                 I   -   0.10  |        -  13,387 |      -   1,545 |      -  11,842 |       -   5,149 |  -    75 |
| BALUCHISTAN
|RICE-WHEAT FGW (5 ha)          I               I                I                I                 I                I            I
|  - with project               | 5.6   5.30  | 31,488  25,586 | 9,772  12,702 | 21,716  12,884 | 3,878   2,430 | 62    40
|  - incremental                | 0.6   0.30       4 4,803   2,836 | 2,180   1,969 | 2,623      867 |   468      164 |  0      3 |
|RICE-WEAT AND ORCAI   4/       I               I                I                I                 I                I            I
|  - with project               I   -   5.30  |        -  57,205 |      -  13,951 |      -  43,254 |       -   8,161 |  -   126 |
- incremental               I   -   0.30  |        -   6,304 |      -   1,881 |       -   44,23 |      -     835     - -    13 |
Not-s:
1/ In constant 1991-92 Rupeoe.
2/ At full developement.
3/ Including incremental water charges and watercourse OLM costs.
4/ 0.3 ha of newly established plum orchard in NWFP, of existing apple orchard in Baluchistan; physical parameters
based on OFWM-III SAR.



PROJECT COMPLETION REI'(T
FAKISTAR: Second (O.-F.m Water Msso.&..t P,oJ..t
(Cr. 103-PAK)
Ann.. Tsble 9: Project Cost and  ..n.fit Str*ms 1/
(Con.tant 1001-92 Rs Million)
1985-88  1906-87  1987-85  198009  1909-90  1990-91 1991-9? 1992-93 1993-94 1996-95 1995-96 1990-97 1997-99 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-OZ 2002-03 20Q3-04 2004-05
OVERALL PROJECT
In.rmontl B.n.fits               0.00   167.79   170.56   199.08   275.34   310.57  365.19  388.25  460.29  685.17  510.16  534.23  549.34  726.89  761.92  770.30  752.00  735.26  716.90  697.23
Incr_..tsl Costs                272.25   511.64   523.37   327.56   315.22    97.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
n.t Bonsfit.                   (272.25) (343.85) (352.81) (128.46)  (39.89)  212.77  365.19  388.25   60.29  *65.17  510.16  534.23  549.34  728.89  761.92  770.38  752.00  735.28  716,90  897.23
Econo.Ic Rota   f R.tor.:  221                  NPV (Rs Million) 2/: 1,064
PUNJAB
Ioc.-.nt.l Benefits               0.00   123.43   126.21   158.51   220.32   257.39  305.87  309.39  383.08  380.87  397.88  611.65  413.90  551.03  577.00  581.20  566.73  554.85  541.71  528.85
Incr..ant.l Costs               192.05   408.27   399.82   190.064   159.09    16.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Net Benefits                   (192.06) (284.84) (273.41)  (32.13)   69.23   240.55  305.87  309.39  363.08  380.67  391.86  611.45  413.90  551.63  577.00  581.20  566.73  554.85  541.71  528.85
Econo.ic R.t, of R.torn:  251                   NFV (R. MillIon) 2/: 965
SIND
Incrmontol Ba-flts                0.00    34.16    31.54    28.25    31.71    35.17   38.62   35.99   65.99   49.26   52.53   55.79   59.05   74.96   76.18   80.15   77.43   74.02   70.83   66.51
Inc-_.ntl Cost.                  60.80    54.05    57.55    59.09    68.75    20.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Rot a...fit.                    (40.00)  (20.69)  (26.01)  (30.84)  (37.04)    9.90   38.62   35.99   65.99   49.26   52.53   55.79   59.05   74.96   70.19   80.15   77.43   74.02   70.83   66.51
Econoic R.ts of R.t.rn:  181                    REV (R. Million) 2/: 78
N1FP
1ocr.._.nta1 Benefits             0.00    (2.68)    1.75        1.69      3.43      6.90    6.35   30.00   34.70   38.20   41.80   47.90   55.99   76.61   80.25   91.75   81.51   81.28   80.37   79.64
Incr_.ntsl Costs                 31.73    22.14    38.68    65.53    49.74    19.19    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
net Benefits                    (31.73)  (24.82)  (37.73)  (43.64)  (46.31)  (14.29)   8.35   30.00   34.70   38.20   41.80   47.90   55.99   76.61   80.25   81.75   81.51   81.28   80.37   79.44
Econo.Ic RNt  of Rotorn:  161                  RPV (Rs Million) 2/: 24
8ALUCHISTAN
Incr...ntsl Benefits              0.00    12.88    11.06    10.83    11.88         13.11   14.35   12.67   15.72   18.04   17.97   19.09   20.40   25.49   26.49   27.28   26.33   25.11   23.99   22.43
Incr.ntaI Costs                   7.86    26.30    26.72    32.30    37.64    33.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Net Benefits                     (7.66)  (13.50)  (15.66)  (21.67)  (25.76)  (20.29)  14.35   12.07   15.72   16.84   17.97   19.08   20.40   25.49   26.49   27.28   26.33   25.11   23.99   22.43
Econo- c Rate  f R.Ltrn:  111                  REV (Rs Million) 2/: (3)
1/ Using SAR  8rmono Ic por t.Lcrs  b.t eith halt th  In.re... in cropping Intensities snd Includin  orchards In NWFP sd Baluchlstan;  Ith 1991-92 pricas  nd sct.al costs.
Cost of Federal Wot*r Mon.Aa.ant Call (FnC) h.. boon proportlon.11y  llocst.d to the prooincs.
2/ At 121.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN: Second On-Farm Water Management Project
(Cr.1603-PAK)
Annex Table 9: Per Hectare Project Cost and Return 1/
I                     |I       Total       I       Average        |   Incremental    | Average Incremental
Farm Models         |         CCA           |       Cost        |      Cost/Ha        |      Benefits      |      Benefits/Ha
I  l      (ha)                (Rs M.)      |          (Rs)        |       (Rs M.)      |          (Rs)
2/                   2/        I          3/                    3/
I   SAR         PCR    |   SAR       PCR  |    SAR          PCR       SAR        PCR         SAR          PCR
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
PUNJAB                240,000    661,178 |   602         628  |   2,507          950 |   280         414        1,167          626    I
| SIND                |  80,520    133,224  |   174         141       2,157      1,062 |   103          59  |   1,277            443    I
| NWFP 4/             |  40,460      50,800 |    91         117  |   2,244       2,305 |    37          57  |       921        1,122    I
| BALUCHISTAN 5/    |  37,800        48,524 |    84          91  |   2,227       1,870        55        20  |   1,462            412    I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_
4-                         | OVERALL PROJECT  I 398,780    893,726 I   950             977  I   2,383       1,093       475       550  I   1,192            615    I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_
Notes:
1/ Values in constant 1991-92 rupees. SAR project costs (originally in 1985-1986 terms) converted using a weighted
average of local and foreign Inflation rates. Farm income and benefits converted using a local inflation factor.
2/ Investment costs (civil works and equipment).
3/ Net economic benefits at full development.
4/ With newly established plum orchards on 1,143 ha.
5/ With existing apple orchards on 728 ha.






PA KIS TA N                                                       .                                           /
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sind P,nim.- P,njw A-  .
-       F_ W_. Mg .                                                                 i..n .Ii                        ,
E-    ,,  ti. D..og P,i..-                                                                      A
M- E1 Kl ril  r   -                                                      \          / -  _- P            N
'N'~~
@N.3    ,t<|-i-t/*  KARACH  '        H      P      R  AN J  A  0
IN      D     I  
'3.                                                                                                        -'_  r
B    A L U C   )Ht EJ _s/ S T A N                                           R        N G H                          -- R
.7._"                                          / -                                      7                  '-
KAA          RAKN                 S- -< 
\   "  ^     u     "     e     p      .   . . _                  )             I  N~~~ D I N
A r L       b C   n I  e T a                     (         -              ANGHAR(7






P A         K I S T A N
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pu4o.b Provinc Prole A-                                                                                  AMMa 
_ IJ .m--, Ppd-                                                                                        K  A  S  H  M   I R
/// O*f sV*a__I             /       |            _ ~~~~~ R A  P   I N D I   
_e F_*ba _ -          roHN                g     R  A      A  L, P  I N
~~~~ -         1 F    * d
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TA T (                         
03*  - S                          BAUSCAlP I
ADWOFWN P.pc
>~~~~~A f-                          ,                   !                                       ---                 --=
,6-                                                                                     U J200  R AT0-
C.I.k                                                                            I                     IT 
Or         - ~D.WA..r  W.o..
K t -    '
0r/                                                                                                                          'S.~~~~~~p0-O "  W 
I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                          
-  SIND~~~~~~~~~~~~KA






IBRD 18719
6r  /                                        0 r  sr            54                                                          0 4  rr                                                    is-         3r
PA K I S TA N
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT /
Baluchistan Province Projed Area
pr   ComonodWot.Monogo.g Prosdct
I, 7 OnFormFWotWrMono5omoob Feojtlv                                                                                                        L
-     OnForm WorMo-ooentdP7/                                                                              Z H 0 8F)oj
-     mojor Rood,                                     S 81
.1
~~~~~~A                G     A      I S T A N                                                           IPU|NJAB/,. >\  
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H   A R A N1<         
Xr [ \9 #t w/                                       Crol,  !*
0 F I R A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUsYI.8
Ontoot RoordonosA,' LA  
- D.o.o.oo Boondono, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     I     DI 
-27-                                                                                                                                              27- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
R A N~~~~~~~~~~~~
21-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     *~2?-
FEBRUARY 19R5






/PAKISTAN
'  \w>nS                                                        SECOND ON FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL WATERCOURSE LAYOUT-PUNJAB PROVINCE
WATERCOURSES                          FIELD BOUNDARIES
SARKARI KHAL                       SQUARE BOUNDARtIES
FARMER BRANCH            -         CHAK BOUNDARYt
DISTRIBUTARY CANAL                 _ METALLED ROAD
NUCCAS                    -____UNMETALLED ROADS
(9)    klOGHA                    ~~~~WATERLOGGED AREAS
0    100    200    300    400    5(n
METERS
(hO tOn ThO  hl  3neO  anaJt The 
t0,aahehttettF Fl he uT sS
e  Ca Tshen   .%, aeRae.l
u h e hOOldhrf lh                                                                                                                                                                                                        0  '..I
tO~~ ~ ~ _hI                                                                                                            ,                            ,     _O_,                                        _ Th'
02
02



