Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4070-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 34.8 MILLION (US$34.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
May 10, 1985
I Thi documen  has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmace of  |
their officil dutieL ts conents my not othrwise be disclosed wid"t Word bnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 16.1
Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ECNEC   -    Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council
FA      -    Field Assistant
COP     -    Covernment of Pakistan
ha      -    Hectare
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -    International Development Association
LCB     -    Local Competitive Bidding
m       -    Meter_
M&E     -    Monitori*ng and Evaluation
NWFP    -    North West Frontier Province
OFUM    _    On-Farm Water Management
O&      _    Operation and Maintenance
RAP     -    Revised Action Program
fUNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -    US Agency for International Development
WAPDA   -    Water and Power Development Authority
WUA     -    Water Users Association



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                 SDR 34.8 million (US$34.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
RelendinR Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan (GOP) to the four
Provinces through budgetary allocations in accordance
with normal GOP procedures.
Proiect                 The project would consolidate the gains and address
Description:          the weaknesses of the first On-Farm Water Management
(OFWM) Project (Credit 1163-PAK) and similar
components under other projects. Project objec-
tives would be to: a) reduce irrigation water
losses at the farm level; b) increase agricultural
production through more efficient use of water;
c) increase farmer participation in Water Users
Associations in order to improve management of
water and non-water farm inputs and ensure ade-
quate maintenance of civil works;-d) improve the
capability of the provincial governments to plan
and execute expanding OFWM programs; and
e) strengthen the water management expertise of
the provincial Agricultural Extension Scrvices as
well as their coordination and cooperation with
the OFUM Directorates.  The three-year project
would include: a) equipment, materials, and
skilled labor for renovation of about 2,500
vatercourses, precision land levelling, demonstra-
tion plots, construction of water tanks, and
limited office space and staff housing;
b) technical assistance; c) training; and
d) supervision and administration. Nearly 90,000
farm families, or about 540,000 people, whose
average per capita income is well below the
national average of US$390, would benefit directly
from improved agricultural productivity and
increased farm employment. As a follow-on to a
successful project, OFWnM II would have minimal
technical or institutional risks. Those weaknes-
ses which have been identified in the ongoing
project have been specifically addressed in design
of the proposed project.
I This document has a restriced distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Bank authoriation.



r-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-i
Estimated Cost: J                      Local    Foreisn    Total
--iUS$ million--
Civil Works (incl. farmers'
cash costs)                            26.8        4.0      30.8
Equipment                                0.6        0.8       1.4
Technical Assistance                     1.6        1.4       3.0
Training                                 0.3        0.1       0.4
Supervision & Administration             8.2        1.5       9.7
Base Cost                            37.5       7.8       45.3
Price Contingencies                      2.5        0.7       3.2
Total Cash Cost                      40.0        8.5      48.5
Farmer Donated Labor                     9.3                  9.3
Total Project Cost                   49.3        8.5      57.8
Financin2 Plan:                        Local    Foreizn    Total
-===US$miulion
Government                               9.5          -       9.5
Farmer Cash Contribution                 4.5          -       4.5
Farmer Labor                             9.3          -       9.3
MA                                      26.0        8.5      34.5
Total                          49.3        8.5       57.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)
(IDA)          FY86      FY87     FY88    FY89
Annual                              8.5     11.3      11.9     2.8
Cumulative                          8.5     19.8      31.7    34.5
Rate of Return:    22%
Appraisal Report: 5459-PAK
aps: IBRD 18719 to 18722.
Including about US$4.7 million taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANACEMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 34.8 million (US$34.5 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second On-Farm Water
Management Project.
PART I - TE. ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20, 1985)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted in
FY84 due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances,
and the carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. GDP growth slowed to
3.5% as a result of a 6.22 fall in agriculture value added caused by adverse
weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by 8.3% and services by 6.2%.
Fixed investment rose by 6.5%, while private investment increased by 11.5%.
National savings fell to 12.1X of GNP as a result of a drop in private
savings. Public savings remained low reflecting reduced Federal and
Provincial budget surpluses. Excess liquidity from FY83 (generated largely
by foreign exchange inflows), increases in world prices and reduced agricul-
tural output, contributed to inflation above 9%, as against 5.2% in FY83.
Budgetary policies continued to be prudent. Current revenues increased by
20%, largely through improved tax administration, but current expenditures
also increased reflecting higher allocations for economic and social
services. Considering the economic impcrtance of agriculture, the achieve-
ment of creditable growth in FY84 points to a considerable resilience of
Pakistan's underlying economic structure, which is partly the result of
recent Government efforts to begin removing structural imbalances in the
economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84, relative to the marked
improvement in FY83. The current account deficit at US$1 billion was almost
double that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lower remittances were the main
contributing factors. With cotton and yarn exports much reduced by the poor
cotton crop, exports rose by only 1.6%, while imports increased by 6.9%.
Remittances, which declined for the first time in FY84, fell by 5.1%.
Moreover, recent projections suggest a decline in net migration, which is
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-4056-PAK (Energy Sector Loan), dated May 6, 1985.



-2-
likely to lead to lower remittances over the medium term. The higher current
deficit, together with low net capital flows, led to a reserve drawdown of
US$113 million. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were
US$2.4 billion at end FY84, equivalent to 3.8 months of imports of goods and
services.
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate interest
from the economy and has announced that the process will be completed by July
1985. All transactions will be based on new financing modes consistent with
Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commitments will be honored and
transactions with foreign governments and financial institutions will not be
affected. At this stage, it is difficult to determine with any certainty the
potential costs of Islamization. Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in
converting the system, but whether long-run efficiency is affected will
depend on how the system is applied. To date, the Government has proceeded
cautiously and, while fully committed to the elimination of interest, has
stressed that new financing modes will be applied flexibly and developments
monitored closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from the
improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83). Growth
in national output (6.5), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing (10.4%), exports
(11%) and private investment (6.7%), though below Plan targets, was well
above rates achieved during FY70-78 and very respectable compared to other
LDCs. Growth during this aeriod - coupled with increased remittances -
benefited large segments ,i the population. Improved performance took place,
despite a number of adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline
in the external terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis
with its attendant requirements for increased defense and refugee assistance
expenditures.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank
borrowing, which stood at 8.82 and 4.32 of CDP in FY79, fell to 6.4% and
1.7%, respectively by FY83. Reduced levels of Government borrowing from
banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower money supply
growth and lessened inflationary pressures; inflation dropped from 8% to 5%
by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance was largely
the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance.
Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely
kept pace with population growth and development expenditures declined rela-
tive to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public
savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of
GNP, dropped to 1.6Z by FY83. Assisted by remittances, but also strong
export growth, the current account deficit fell from 52 of CUP to 2% by the
end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of
imports of goods and services.



-3-
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in the
commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached record
output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency. Subsidies on
pesticides were virtually eliminated, whiLe fertilizer prices were raised to
reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were adjusted to bring
them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for operation and main-
tenance in irrigation were increased, along with water charges. Encouraged
by improved policies and incentives, private manufacturing investment grew by
lO.9X p.a.  Areas open to the private sector were widened, most agricultural
processing units were denationalized and sanctioning limits increased. A
flexible exchange rate policy adopted in 1982 was instrumental in encouraging
manufactured exports, while import liberalization increased the availability
of raw materials and capital goods. In energy, measures were taken to
accelerate the development of domestic resources, rationalize prices, and
improve policy formulation and energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems which are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further wide-
ranging measures to address structural issues are necessary. Two issues are
critical to Pakistan's long-term growth prospects: (a) the need to increase
the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to encourage
export expansion and efficient import substitution. To sustain high economic
growth, Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to make major infrastructure
investments, upgrade existing facilities and strengthen its neglected social
base. The latter has fared badly as a result of resource constraints and is
reflected in Pakistan's social indicators which lag seriously behind those of
other developing countries at comparable levels of development. Increases in
public investment and recurrent allocations will not be possible without a
major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although reform of indirect
taxation through the introduction of a broad-based sales tax should receive
priority, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of subsidies and
increased self-financing by public enterprises will also be required. Given
the more constrained outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of
lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both export expansion and
efficient import substitution will be necessary to support high growth with
sustainable external capital requirements. Improved trade performance will
*        require a continuation and strengthening of the structural adjustment process
in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy. Both agriculture and
industry have considerable potential for increased exports and some degree of
efficient import substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of
Pakistan's under-exploited resources can make a major contribution to the
reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage; average yields remain low by world standards and those of progres-
sive farmers within Pakistan. Increasing agricultural productivity and
diversification will require strengthened institutional support, appropriate
pricing policies, and the identification and implementation of the core
investment program. More effective institutional support should be sought



-4-
through improvements in the quality and quantity of services to farmers. In
particular, strengthening the seed program requires more efficient seed
multiplication and dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector
plants and a greater role for the private sector. The delivery of agricul-
tural credit needs to be improved to ensure it actually reaches small farmers
and tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Marketing costs need to be
reduced together with a strengthening of research and extension services.
Agricultural pricing policies should ensure appropriate incentives to
farmers, while minimizing subsidies. Multi-crop approaches to pricing should
complement the single crops, cost-of-production approach currently used.
Finally, a core investment program in agriculture and water is needed to
reduce the possibility of distortions in investment priorities. Programs
that are low-cost and yield quick returns should be emphasized along with
critical infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater
emphasis on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between
agriculture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs
that increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the supply
of physical infrastructure.
11.     Increasing and diversifying Pakistan's manufactured export base and
encouraging efficient import substitution will depend, to a large extent, on
a rationalization of industrial incentives to reduce both the level and
dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective should be to
increase the ef:iciency of the industrial sector by exposing protected
producers to greaLer foreign competition and to reduce the anti-export bias
inherent in the present incentives system. In addition, reform of Government
regulations affecting investment sanctioning and cost-plus pricing is also
required. The Government should limit sanctioning to a few cases of
strategic importance, leaving most investment decisions to the private
sector, which is better able to assess investment opportunities. Cost-plus
pricing arrangements, which provide insufficient incentives to minimize costs
or allocate capital efficiency, should be replaced by market-oriented
approaches which better reflect supply/demand conditions and provide adequate
incentives for reinvestment and operationaL efficiency.
12.     In the energy sector issues need to be addressed in three broad
areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institutional
strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation program, as well
as other investments in the sector, have not been based on a long-term least-
cost development plan. Given the likelihood of domestic resource constraints
and persistent power shortages, the Covernment should ensure that future
investments conform to such a plan and that a core investment program is
insulated from uncertainties inherent in the budgeting process. The present
gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries should be adjusted to
provide adequate incentives to attract private sector exploration. Consumer
gas prices, which were maintained artificially low to encourage the substitu-
tion of gas for imported oil, have resulted in a considerable distortion of
relative prices and uneconomic use of gas. The Government's policy is to
increase gas prices to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 and since



-5-
1982, price increases have averaged 15Z p.a. in dollar terms. The Government
needs to meet its FY88 objective and move to full parity as soon thereafter
as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below long-run mar-
ginaL cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not onLy to ensure
efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also to
mobilize additional funds to meet the substantial resources required by the
power investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue efforts to strengthen energy planning and
policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) articulated a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development which included an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures and
increased allocations for energy, agricuLtiLre, irrigation and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan will he 9%
lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic resource
mobilization. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health and agriculture, received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a pre-defined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; too many projects are
initiated and projects that should receive priority are underfunded. In
order to address this issue, Government has announced the re-introduction of
a Three-Year Priority Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has
emphasized that the adoption of a roLling medium-term program does not mean
plan strategies and priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are
considered inevitable. The Program will identify sectoral core investment
programs which will be given priority in formulating annual plans. By
protecting priority investments, especially in key areas, the effectiveness
of the public investment program would be enhanced and priorities sharpened.
14.     Despite the temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance and
poLicy framework set in motion during the Fifth Plan, which the Government
intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's credit-
worthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commercial borrowing.
At the end of calendar year 1983, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding
the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$2 billior. to multilateral agencies, and the balance, to other
bilateral and private lenders. In 1983, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's
external public indebtedness was 15.32 and in externaL debt service was 7.0%.
Bank projections indicate that, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service wou.d
remain below 15Z during the remainder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher
levels of commercial borrowing.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA comfitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in most sectors
of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors, over a
20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water resources
of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30Z of total Bank/IDA commitments to
Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 28% for industry including
import program credits; 18% for transport, telecommunications and public
utility services; 14Z for energy including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 5% for social programs in education, population and urban
development; and 5% for structural adjustment lending and technical
assistance.
16.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to support
the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy
reforms in three sectors-energy, industry, agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment process in the economy. At the same time and in order
to ensure that the gains from adjustment are sustained in the long term and
shared more broadly, the strategy also includes investments in physical
infrastructure and the social sectors (education, population etc.) which have
been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts. To succeed, this strategy
requires a flexible deployment of the full range of traditional instruments
of Bank support - sector work and active policy dialogue, policy and project
based lending, technical assistance and aid co-ordination. The Bank Group's
lending program comprises two components. The larger project-based component
supports specific high priority investments in productive sectors and physi-
cal and social infrastructure. The smaLler but strategic component focusses
on policy reforms in the key sectors of agriculture, industry and energy,
relying heavily on high quality economic and sector work. The strategy
includes a series of technical assistance credits to finance studies and
formulate action programs for policy reform. The experience with the first
of these has been extremely positive. Through the annual Country Economic
Memorandum, we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium mt.._ers
of the Government's structural adjustment program and aid requirements, which
coupled with increased co-financing should enhance the policy relevance and
effectiveness of other official aid and help attract additional resources to
Pakistan from non-concessional sources.
17.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy.  The Bank and
the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a strategy which
underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the objective has been to
increase agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of
the irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and longer
term expenditures, rationalization of input and output prices, marketing,



-7-
improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role
for the private sector.  Projects in the sector have ranged from
irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research and extension and have
included institution building components. Overall, progress in agriculture
has been satisfactory.
18.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment ir Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the
private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The industrial
reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector in
ozder to promote export expansion and import substitution. Issues being
addressed include trade and industrial incentives; deregulation; efficiency
of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and improvements in the credit
delivery system. Projects have included lines of credits to DFCs and other
financial intermediaries which has been mainly for the private sector, total-
ing US$488.5 million. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan. As
of March 31, 1985, IFC has made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises total-
ing US$191.24 million of which US$179.91 million was by way of loans and
US$11.33 million by equity participation (these are shown in Annex II).
While individual operations have generally achieved their objectives, the
agenda for overall reform in industry remains formidable.
19.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to expand
domestic supply from all energy subsectors while simultaneously increasing
the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation and
other demand management measures. No less central have been efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the Bank has assisted
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC  and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation and transmission; the
sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin
Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In oil and gas, the Bank
has financed operations which support a sound exploration and development
program and has assisted in the development of the extensive gas transmission
system. Smaller operations, mostly of an engineering and technical assis-
tance nature, have supported coal exploration, energy audits and oil
refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to continue its
participation in institution building in concert with efforts to assist the
Government mobilize adequate funds for energy investments through tariffs,
co-financing, and greater private sector participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and cowmunications has focussed both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assests. Operations have also focussed on strengthening the ins:i itions
responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan
Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial



-8-
highways agencies. However, recent analysis has identified transport
infrastructure as a critical constraint to over-alL growth, due in large
measure to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future the balance
between new investments and operation and maintenance and among various modes
will need to receive greater attention.
21.     With an over-all literacy rate of only 25%, a population growth rate
of about 3%, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable development
agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has supported the Government's
programs in education through five credits totaling some US$62.5 million
designed to upgrade primary, post secondary and higher technical and agricul-
tural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural
extension agents. The focus has and will continue to be on the lower end of
the education system (primary, secondary, technical and non-formal education
including literacy) A first population project designed to expand demand for
population control services was approved in FY83. In the urban and water
supply sector, the Bank has financed four projects. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are addressing, among other issues, improved local
resource mobilization and cost recovery, improved planning and efficiency of
resource utilization; and urban management especially at the Provincial and
Municipal levels.
22.     With respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved in
June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant reforms in
government development planning and in policies and programs in the
agriculture, energy and industrial sectors. The loan was fully disbursed at
the end of FY83 and achieved significant progress in the above areas. In the
next fe-e years, continuing support to the structural adjustment process is
envisioned under sector loans.
23.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of March 31, 1985. Credit and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to
protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness iL the pro:urement of goods and services. Rapid
turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the
Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some
projects.
24.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are being
appraised. These include projects for power transmission and generation;
coal development; lines of credit for industrial finance for the private
sector, industrial subsector restructuring, balancing and modernization;
irrigation/drainage, agricultural inputs and services; primary and informal
education; telecommun-cations; urban development and water supply. In addi-
tion to a recently approved energy sector loan, sectoral loans which would
support further structural adjustment in industry and agriculture are being
discussed with the Gnvernment. Where successful, these sector loans would
provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To assist the
Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which



w -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~9
have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures
in specific cases is justified.
25.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and for the
co-ordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The
work program emphasi=es resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the
three key sectors, and physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE ACRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.     Despite its declining relative importance, agriculture continues to
dominate Pakistan's economy. It contributes about 30% of gross domestic
product, provides about two-thirds of total exports, and employs
approximately 55Z of the country's labor force. The agriculture sector's
growth rate decreased from an annual average of 6% in the Sixties to 2% in
the Seventies, in large part because of inappropriate policies. Following
the change of Government in 1977, agricultural policies improved and growth
rates rose to an average of 4.4% during FY79-83. While untimely rains and
severe insect damage to the cotton crop caused a temporary setback in FY84,
indications are that agricultural production will increase substantially in
FY85.
Irrigation Agriculture and Water Management
27.     Over 90X of the value of Pakistan's agricultural production comes
from irrigated land. Irrigation in the Indus Plain began more than 5,000
years ago under the Mohenjodaro civilization, at which time sunmmer floods
were diverted to adjacent lands for agriculture. The present system was
initiated by the British government in the late 1800s. Today it comprises
the Indus river and its major tributaries, three major reservoirs (Tarbela,
Mangla, and Chasma), 19 barrages/headworks, 43 canal commands, and some
89,000 chaksl/. Additional irrigation water is obtained from about 12,500
public tubewells and about 190,000 private tubewells. Altogether, the system
commands about 14.0 million ha and is the largest contiguous irrigation
system in the world.
28.     Through the years, the greatly expanded use of irrigation has sig-
nificantly altered the hydrological balance in the Indus Plain. A rising
water table has caused serious waterlogging and salinization in large areas,
causing land abandonment and reduced production. Over the same period, major
issues have emerged in the management of the delivery of irrigation water as
well as its use at the farm level. Water supplies in excess of design
capacities have placed great stress on the irrigation system. This, coupled
l/ A chak is the lowest order irrigation command covering an average of
162 ha and 35 farm units. A watercourse is the communal irrigation
delivery system within each chak.



-10-
with inadequate maintenance, has resulted in frequent canal bank breaches and
interruptions in service. As a result, overall delivery efficiencies are
low. Various studies have indicated that about 251 of diverted surface
supplies are lost prior to reaching the chaks. Within the chaks, operation
and maintenance (O&K) of the watercourses, which is the responsibility of the
farmers, is poor, causing further water losses averaging over 50%. In
particular, the farmers in the mid and tail reaches generally receive con-
siderably less water than their intended share. What water is received often
fails to produce the potential crop yields because of improper farm
practices. In sum, if not corrected, the increasingly serious salinity and
water management problems would undermine achievement of Pakistan's goal of
raising agricultural production through increased cropping intensities and
yields.
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance and Strategy
29.     The GOP fully recognizes that the huge investments made thus far in
irrigation infrastructure will be wasted if they are not properly maintained
and rehabilitated, if the efficiency of water delivery and use is not
improved, and if drainage is not provided to check salinity and water
logging. The agriculture sector policies pursued under the Fifth Five Year
Plan (FY79-83) and now being continued under the Sixth Five Year Plan
(FY84-88) address these issues. The policies grew out of a UNDP-financed
Indus Basin Study in the 1970s for which the Bank acted as executing agency.
The study report, Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP),
placed priority on drainage, irrigation rehabilitation, and water management
projects. In recent years, the Bank Group has supported a wide range of
projects in these areas including the ongoing On-farm Water Management (OFWM)
Project (Credit 1163-PAK).
30.     Pakistan's development plans also acknowledge that in order to
increase yields and production, investments in drainage, rehabilitation, and
water management must be accompanied by measures to address other aspects of
agriculture. There is a need to strengthen agricultural support services, to
maintain appropriate input and output prices, to strengthen irrigation and
agricultural institutions, and to widen the role of the private sector. The
Bank Group is supporting GOP efforts to address these needs by financing
projects in extension, research, and credit. In addition, through the
Fertilizer Import Credit (Credit 1066-PAK, fully disbursed) and Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2166/Credit 1255-PAK, fully disbursed) significant
progress has been made in rationalizing agricultural pricing and reducing
input subsidies on pesticides and fertilizer.
31.     Despite the policy reforms of recent years and the GOP's essentially
correct priorities, a great deal more remains to be done if the potential of
the agriculture sector is to be realized and its contribution to exports
maRimized. More attention needs to be given to the link between extension
and research, and to the coordinated availability of agricultural
information, inputs, marketing, and credit. Of particular importance will be



-11-
the achievement of a balance between further investments in physical
infrastructure and programs to improve the delivery of inputs and services to
the farmers. The Bank and the Government are in general agreement on these
priorities, and initial discussions have been held regarding a possible
agriculture sector loan which would assist the Government in accelerating the
pace of reform. In the meantime, we also agree that many aspects of the
sector strategy can best be addressed through additional projects designed to
alleviate critical bottlenecks to increased agricultural production. The
proposed second OFWM Project would address one of the most important of these
problem areas, namely the management of a key input (water) at the farm
level. It builds up on extensive research and investigation in water manage-
ment and the experience from a USAID-financed pilot project in the Seventies.
The lessons from the first IDA-financed project, as well as OFWM components
under other IDA-financed irrigation and drainage projects, have also
influenced the design of the proposed follow-up operation.
Previous Water Management Efforts
32.     Studies started in 1973 by Pakistan's Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with USAID funding, and further verified by the RAP studies
(paragraph 29), have documented high watercourse conveyance loss rates
resulting in water delivery efficiencies ranging from only 37% in Sind to 51Z
in Punjab (the two provinces accounting for the bulk of irrigated
agriculture). Moreover, the studies concluded that the cost per acre foot of
water saved through watercourse improvement would be about 25Z of that to
develop new water supplies. Based on these findings and encouraged by ini-
tial farmer response to watercourse improvement technologies developed under
the research projects, the Government undertook a small five-year (1976-80)
nationwide OFWM pilot project with USAID funding. This project established
the basic concept and institutional arrangements which have been adopted and
modified under subsequent projects financed by IDA and other donors. The
OFWN projects all feature a civil works program of watercourse renovation and
precision land levelling. Farmers supply all the unskilled labor for civil
works construction, while the government provides technical assistance and
varying shares of the costs of materials and land levelling. Principal
responsibility for implementation rests with field teams assigned to OFWM
Directorates in the Departments of Agriculture of the four provinces.
Overall coordination is provided by a Water Management Cell in the Federal
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives. Training is provided at
three institutes established under the USAID pilot project.
33.     The first IDA-financed OFWM project was approved in FY82 and received
cofinancing from the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
Originally intended to last three years (FY82-84), the project was extended
one year in view of its encouraging progress and a desire to maintain momen-
tum during preparation of a proposed second project. Funding of the addi-
tional year was made possible largely through lower than expected cost
increases and foreign exchange savings resulting from devaluation of the
rupee.



-12-
34.     OPWM I has been quite successful as measured by completion of civil
works targets, acceptance by farmers, and Government support. Civil works
completed by June 30, 1984 generally met or exceeded the project targets,
and OFWM components have now been included in some ten other water subsector
projects, six of them assisted by IDA. As of June 30, 1984, about 4,600
watercourses or about 5Z of those requiring improvement had been renovated.
35.     OFWM I added a number of innovations to the original pilot concept.
Important among these was the creation of Water Users Associations (WUAs) as
a prerequisite for assistance under the project. Formally established under
provincial ordinances, the WUAs provide a means to ensure participation by
all farmers served by a given watercourse. This cooperative structure,
grounded in traditional institutional arrangements, provides a vehicle to
promote more equitable sharing of water supplies and improved O&M. OFWM I
also established principles of cost recovery for construction materials (see
paragraph 61) and abolished the government suibsidy for land levelling except
in the very poor province of Baluchistan.
Rationale for IDA Support for OFWM II Project
36.     Despite the achievements under OFWM I and the conscious attempt made
to improve upon the USAID pilot project, a number of weaknesses have been
identified under OFWM I and the other ongoing projects which need to be
addressed before the full potential benefits in agricultural production can
be realized. While the ongoing projects have successfully engaged the
cooperation of the WUAs in renovation of the watercourses, they have been
less successful in promoting a commitment to proper O&E  amongst the farmers.
Second, assistance to farmers in management of the saved water has been less
than satisfactory owing to inadequate training, compensation, and mobiLity of
the OFWM Directorate field workers. Third, complementary agricultural exten-
sion services have generally been inadequate because of the inherent weakness
of these services and the lack of coordination between the Extension and OFWM
Directorates within the provincial Departments of Agriculture. The proposed
OFWM II project would address these problems in an intensive manner and
thereby seek to consolidate the gains achieved under the earlier projects.
While additional OFWM components might continue to receive funding under
other projects in any case, it is unlikely that they would correct the iden-
tified weaknesses in the program in the absence of another separate OFWM
project. Thus a second IDA-financed project is required to help the provin-
ces establish strong sustainable OFWM programs capable of widespread replica-
tion which permit farmers to realize their potential in agricultural
production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The ongoing IDA-financed OFWM Project is scheduled to be completed by
June 30, 1985, and the Government included a second project in its Sixth
Five-Year Plan (FY84-88). Preparation of the proposed OFWH II Project was



-13-
carried out by National Engineering Services, Pakistan, Ltd. financed by the
UNOP with the Bank as executing agency. The project was appraised in
October 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 11 to
17, 1985. The Pakistan delegation was led by A.M.H. Kango, Coordinator,
Water Management Cell, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Pakistan: Second On-farm Water Management Project" (Report
No. 5459-PAK) dated May 1C, 1985 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
38.     The proposed project would seek to consolidate the gains under the
OFWM I Project and other OFWM component projects and make improvements in the
provincial OFWM programs to enable them to realize their potential. Specific
project objectives would be to: (a) increase agricultural production by
saving and making more effective use of irrigation water through improved
OFWM practices; (b) improve the capability of the provincial OFWM
Directorates to plan and execute an expanding OFWM program; (c) strengthen
coordination and cooperation between the provincial OFWM Directorates and
Extension Services within the provincial Departments of Agriculture, and
strengthen the water management advisory capability of the extension
services; and (d) increase farmer participation in WUAs in order to improve
management of water and non-water farm inputs as well as ensure adequate
maintenance of civil works.
39.     The proposed three-year (FY86-88) project would be implemented in all
four provinces. It would cover most of the irrigated districts in Pakistan,
except those areas which are included under another project with an OFWM
component.
Project Description
40.    The project would provide: (a) civil works for watercourse renovation
(with and without lining), water storage tanks, demonstration plots, and
precision land levelling, as well as limited office space and staff housing
in Baluchistan and rehabilitation of training facilities in Sind and North
West Frontier Province (NWFP); (b) technical assistance; (c) training; and
(d) supervision and administration.
Civil Works
41.     As under OFWM I, the project would provide the materials, precast
structures, additional personnel, and equipment for construction of required
civil works. Farmers would provide all unskilled labor. The project would
also provide skilled masons in all provinces except Punjab where farmers
would employ the masons.



-14-
42.     Watercourse Renovation.  About 2,400 communal watercourses would be
renovated by applying the technology employed under OFWM I. This would
involve reconstruction and compaction of earthen sections and masonry or
cement lining of portions of the communal watercourses. In addition, a
limited number of watercourses would be rebuilt on a pilot basis without
lining. In selecting watercourses for renovation, preference would be given
to commands with a high potential for increased agricultural productivity -
i.e. chaks located in saline groundwater areas - and to chaks cultivated by
low income farmers. The Government has agreed that the criteria for deter-
mining the length of watercourses to be lined and for selection of watercour-
ses to be renovated, as well as for siting water storage tanks (see paragraph
44), would be satisfactory to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.04 and Province Project Agreements, Section 2.03).
43.     Precision Land Levelling.  The technology employed under OFWM I for
land levelling would be used again. Farmers would either contract for the
work or do it themselves with rented equipment. In either case, farmers
would bear the full cost, but would receive technical assistance from the
OFWM Directorates in surveying, planning, laying out, and inspecting the
work.
44.     Water Storage Tanks.  In Baluchistan and NWFP, where water supplies
are limited, a total of about 70 storage tanks would be constructed to con-
serve water and increase volumetric flows through intermittent and timely
release of water.
45.     Demonstration Plots.  One or more demonstration plots would be estab-
lished on each renovated watercourse to show farmers how to use the increased
water supply resulting from project investments. Demonstrations would be
carried out on a farmer's land, with technical assistance from the OFWM
Directorate, and would cover land levelling, proper field layout, land
preparation, and irrigation scheduling to better meet crop water
requirements. The plots would also highlight the effectiveness of improved
cultural practices and non-water inputs in conjunction with proper water
management.
Institutional Arrangements
46.     While the project's institutional arrangements (described in detail
in the draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, Part A) would
generally replicate those for OFWM I, they would be strengthened to improve
O&M of civil works and increase agricultural production by making more effec-
tive use of the saved water. The Federal Hater Management Cell would coor-
dinate the project and assure consistency with agreed specifications,
standards, criteria, and procedures. Headed by a Director General reporting
to the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives, the Cell would develop annual work plans for submission to IDA



-15-
by April 1 each year, prepare periodic progress reports, maintain con-
solidated accounts, and arrange for international procurement and technical
assistance, including monitoring and evaluation.
47.     The OFWM Directorates in the provincial Departments of Agriculture
would be responsible for (a) project implementation; (b) supervision of O&M
of renovated watercourses; (c) organizing, registering, assisting, and main-
taining liaisor with the WUAs; td) maintaining accounts; (e) supervising,
with the assistance of consultants, civil works construction; and (f) local
procurement of equipment and materials. While under OFWM I the incremental
staff to carry out this work was funded by the project and included in the
provincial development budgets, for the purposes of OFWM II the provinces
have decided to regularize most of the headquarters staff and give them
permanent positions funded out of the current budget. This welcome change
should help ensure sustainability of the OFWM programs.
48.     As under OFWM I, about 80 field teams comprised of 5-10 specialists
in OFWM engineering and agricultural techniques wouLd be responsible for
execution of the engineering works. However, a number of changes would be
made to improve the performance of these teams, particularly in respect to
O&M, and address the weaknesses of the ongoing programs (see paragraph 35).
The teams would continue to include one Water Management Specialist, two or
three Water Maragement Officers (UMOs) qualified in engineering or
agriculture, and a number of Sub-engineers and Field Assistants (FAs). To
improve the use of water and maintenance of watercourses, the WMO
(Agriculture) would be given specific responsibility to organize WUAs,
provide liaison between the OFWM Directorate and the Extension Service,
monitor maintenance, and assist farmers in adopting appropriate irrigation
practices. In addition, the provinces have agreed to provide additional
training to the FAs - OFWM junior staff - in an effort to upgrade their
qualifications and acceptance by the farmers.
49.     The continuing responsibility for all non-structural water management
services and other non-water inputs and services would rest with the
Extension Directorates in the provincial Departments of Agriculture. While
separate efforts are underway or planned under other projects in much of the
proposed OFWM II project area to strengthen these services, a number of
measures would be introduced under OFWH II to increase their contribution to
water management and utilization.  Following completion of watercourse
renovation and major OFWM activities in each chak, Extension Directorate
Agricultural Officers and FAs would gradually assume the primary role of
working directly with the WUAs and farmers on maintenance, operation of
demonstration plots, and OFWM practices. To develop the capability of the
Extension Directorate to carry out this expanded role in the project area,
the project would (a) provide training at the OFWN institutes for extension
service personnel; (b) assign a subject matter specialist trained in OFWM to
each extension district; and (c) designatu specific FAs to renovated
watercourses. In addition, coordination between the OFWM and Extension
Directorates wouild be strengthened by (a) establishment of an OFWM



-16-
Coordination Committee chaired by the Provincial Secretary of Agriculture to
meet at least quarterly; and (b) representation of the OFWM Directorate on
each District's Agricultural Extension Technical Committee. Assurances have
been received from the Provincial Governments that they would undertake a
program satisfactory to IDA to strengthen the OFWM related capability of the
Extension Services in the project area as well as, coordination between the
OFWM Directorates and Extension Services (draft Province Project Agreements,
Sections 3.03 and 3.04).
50.     As under OFWM I, as a condition of obtaining assistance for water-
course renovation, farmers would be required to form Water Users Associations
(WUAs) (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph 4).  The
WUAs would be responsible for the provision of farmer labor for watercourse
renovation and for maintenance of the renovated watercourses. The WUA
ordinances provide for sanctions against farmers who fail to participate in
the maintenance program. As agreed in connection with the Command Water
Management Project (Credit 1487-PAK), the WUAs would be encouraged to assume
a number of other responsibilities including distribution of non-water inputs
and information, allocation of water, and installation of surface drains.
51.     The project would provide additional personnel, equipment, and sup-
plies to complement the ongoing USAID-financed OFWM training program and
strengthen the curriculum at the provincial OFWM-institutes. Details of the
training program 'or all project staff would be furnished to IDA by December
31, 1985 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph 6). To
improve the implementation capability of the federal and provincial
governments, the project would provide about 504 man-months of local super-
visory consultants and about 54 man-months of internationally recruited
experts. Assurances have been obtained that a contract would be signed with
the local supervisory consultants by December 31, 1985 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph 5).
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.     While the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) programs for the pilot and
ongoing projects have yielded useful information, there is a need to refine
the data collection methodology and improve the manpower and computer
analytical capacity. Under the proposed project, monitoring of physical and
financial activity would continue to be executed by the OFWM Directorates
which have performed this function satisfactorily. Evaluation would be
carried out by a qualified independent local institution acceptable to IDA.
The Federal Water Management Cell would enter into a contract by March 31,
1986 with such an institution to carry out the evaluation under terms and
conditions, and in accordance with terms of reference and procedures, satis-
factory to IDA. Preparation of the M&E program is already underway, and the
GOP has agreed to submit it by October 31, 1985 for review by IDA (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraphs 8, 9, and 10).



-17-
Project Costs
53.     Total project costs are estimated at US$57.8 million with a foreign
exchange component of about US$8.5 million or 15X of total costs. Estimates
are based on April 1985 prices and include about US$4.7 million in taxes and
duties. Project cash costs are estimated at US$48.5 million and farmer
donated labor for civil works at US$9.3 million. Civil works costs are based
on the most recent unit costs for OFWM I. Since the requirements for
equipment, technical assistance, training, and supervision and administration
are known from the ongoing projects, no physical contingencies have been
included. Price contingencies are about 7% of base costs in US$ terms,
reflecting projected local inflation rates of FY86:6.5X; FY87:6.5X; and
FY88:6.0Z and foreign inflation rates of FY86:6.25%; FY87:7.752; and
FY88:8.0%.
Financing
54.     The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 34.8 (US$34.5 million) would finance
100Z of foreign exchange costs and about 74% of local cash costs or about 79%
of total cash costs net of taxes, duties and the cost of vehicles to be
procured under reserved procurement. The farmers would contribute about
US$4.5 million or 10% of total cash costs net of taxes and dxties. The GOP
and the Provinces would finance the remaining US$9.5 million equivalent or
about 22% of total project cash costs net of taxes and duties. In addition,
farmers' donated labor would be equivalent to about US$9.3 million or about
16% of total project costs. As is the case for all projects in Pakistan,
approval of the PC-1 (the COP's project document) by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01). To
facilitate project financing, the COP would establish a Special Account in
the National Bank of Pakistan (a commercial bank) into which IDA would
advance funds according to standard IDA procedures for such accounts. All
IDA-financed expenditures would be made through the Special Account. The
initial deposit into the Special Account would be US$3.75 million repre-
senting IDA's share of expenditures for about four months. Replenishment
would be made on the basis of withdrawal statements submitted by the four
Provinces and the Federal Cell.
Disbursements
55.     The IDA credit would be disbursed for:  (a) 70% of the cost of
cement; (b) 85% of the cost of other materials and skilLed labor for civil
works; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-
factory, and 75% of other local expenditures for equipment; (d) 100Z of the
cost of internationally recruited experts and 90X of the cost of local super-
visory consultants and consultants for M&E; (e) 70% of the cost of training;
and (f) 60% of the salaries and related costs of incremental Federal Cell
staff and provincial 0FWM field teams and support staff. Disbursements for
(a), (b), {e), and (f) would be made against statements of expenditure;



-18-
aupporting documents would be retained by the implementing agencies for
review by IDA. Within six months of submission of each reimbursement
application for civil works items, the GOP and the Provinces assisted by the
supervisory consultants would verify that the improvements on watercourses
for which the materials were procured met agreed standards, specifications,
and criteria and that the materials for which IDA reimbursement had been made
were used for such improvements. Any deviations in quantity or inadequacy in
construction of renovated watercourses would be adjusted against subsequent
requests for IDA reimbursement. Disbursements for (c) and (d) would be made
against full documentation. The disbursement schedule in the Project Summary
reflects experience under OFWM I.
ProcuremenL
56.     Procurement methods are summarized below:
Procurement Method (US$ million)
Total
Expenditure Category    ICB        LCB          Other        Cost
Civil Works               -        16.7         25.5a/      42.2
-       (14.3)        (9.9)      (24.2)
Equipment                0.6        0.1          0.8b/        1.5
(0.4)      (0.1)        (0.2)       (0.7)
Technical Assistance      -         -            3.3          3.3
(3.1)       (3.1)
Training                            -            0.4          0.4
(0.3)       (0.3)
Supervision &             -         -           10.4         10.4
Administration
_____      _______      (6.2)        (6.2)
Total                    0.6       16.8         40.4        57.8
(0.4)     (14.4)       (19.7)      (34.5)
a/ Includes about US$13.8 million of rarmers' cash and labor contributions
and about US$10.7 million for cement.
b/ Includes about US$0.4 for vehicles to be procured by GOP under reserved
procurement.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
57.     Because project civil works materials would be used in small quan-
tities throughout an extremely wide area, procurement through international
competitive bidding (ICB) would not be practicable. Procurement of brick,
sand, gravel, and prefabricated panels would be carried out by local competi-



-19-
tive bidding (LCB) satisfactory to IDA in Punjab, Sind, and NWFP. Because
civil works in Baluchistan would be particularly isolated, widely scattered,
and largely located in tribal areas which have unique transportation and
storage problems, procurement of brick, sand, gravel, and panels would be
carried out by the shopping method. Similarly, in all four provinces to
procure the extremely small quantities of reinforcement bars, concrete and
PVC pipes, and plastic sheets, the shopping method would also be used, com-
paring at least three independent sources. Skilled labor would be procured
through direct hire. LCB contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be sent to IDA
for prior review.
58.     Cement would be procured in accordance with Federal and Provincial
Government procedures, which have been followed under OFWM I and are satis-
factory to IDA. Under these procedures each Provincial OFWM Directorate is
allocated a cement quota from government-owned cement plants to meet the
project's requirements. The price is set by the Government for all public
projects. The OFWM Directorates pick up the cement at the factories and
deliver it to the construction sites.
59.     Laser control equipment for land levelling would be procured by ICB
in accordance with IDA guidelines. The Federal Water Management Cell would
coordinate the procurement of such equipment. Because land levelling
equipment, other than laser controls, is manufactured in each province and
would not attract international suppliers, these items would be procured
separateLy by each province using LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA. The
aggregate amount of such items would not exceed US$100,000. Because of the
relatively small amount of office and survey equipment required, these items
would be procured following provincial procedures whereby the concerned
agency could compare the prices from at least three independent suppliers.
The aggregate amount of such items would not exceed US$400,000. Employment
of supervisory consultants, internationally recruited advisors, and consult-
ants for M&E would be in accordance with IDA guidelines. Project vehicles
would be provided by the Government from its own resources by March 31, 1986
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph 7).
Cost Recovery
60.     Cost recovery for irrigation and drainage is a central issue in the
Bank's dialogue in agriculture with the federal and provincial governments.
Under the Command Water Management Project (CWH - Credit 1487-PAK) the four
provinces reaffirmed their commitment to move progressively toward full
recovery of the cost of O&M of the irrigation system by various agreed dates;
and Sind Province agreed under the Left Bank Outfall Drain Project (LBOD -
Credit 1532-PAK) on a schedule to recover the full costs of drainage O&M in
the project area.
61.     In addition to paying irrigation water charges, farmers benefitting
from OFWM works provide their unskilled labor and farmers in Punjab employ
the masons. Also, all the provinces except NWFP currently require the



-20-
farmers to repay some share of the cost of the construction materials over
seven years, including two years grace, with no interest. Government policy
is to move towards greater farmer financing of materials for OFWH works.
Accordingly, further steps would be taken under this project to increase
recovery of the cost of construction materials for watercourse renovation.
Punjab Province, which requires repayment of 20% of the cost of materials by
the beneficiaries under OFWM I and oWM, would recover 25% under OFWM II.
Sind Province, which under OFWM I, CWM, and LBOD, recovers 25%, would under
OFWM II recover 30%. Baluchistan Province, which requires no repayment under
OFWM I and agreed to recover 25% under CWM, would recover 25% under OFWK 1I.
NWFP does not recover any cost of materials under OFWM I but agreed under CWM 
to implement a recovery program satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have been
received from NWFP that effective July 1, 1985 it will recover under all
IDA-financed OFWM projects and project components, including the proposed
project, 10% of the cost of materials; the repayment terms would be the same
as in the other provinces (draft Province Project Agreements, Section 3.02).
Benefits and Risks
62.     Cropping intensities and yields would increase as a result of addi-
tional irrigation water from reduced conveyance losses in some 2,500
renovated watercourses combined with other project improvements, including
precision land levelling, operation of demonstration plots, and adoption of
better water management practices. At full development, over the project
area of 400,000 ha, incremental production, primarily of wheat, cotton, and
paddy rice, would be valued at US$18 million (in constant FY85 prices).
This, in turn, would raise farm incomes by an estimated 7% to 17% in the
project area. NearLy 90,000 farm families or about 540,000 people, whose
average per capita income is US$130-240 compared to US$390 for Pakistan as a
whole, would benefit directly. In addition, the project would provide farm
employment of about 30 million man-days per year at full development and the
demand for hired labor would more than double to about 2.5 million man-days.
The project's overall economic rate of return is 22%.
63.     As a follow-on project, for which the basic techniques are well
established, OFWM II would not involve any unusual risks. While the results
from N&E of the ongoing projects are not sufficient to draw firm conclusions
about their benefits, the data which do exist suggest that with the planned
improvements in input management and maintenance of works, the relatively
modest projected production increases should be achieved within the estimated
time. Those weaknesses which have been identified in the ongoing project
have been specifically addressed in design of the proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the provinces of Punjab, Sind, NWFP, and Baluchistan and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of



-21-
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. An additional condition of effectiveness vould be approval by
ECNEC of the PC-1 documents (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01).
65.     Other special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VT - RECOMMENDATION
67.     I recommnd that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 10, 1985



-22-
ANN  1
T A B L F  3A                                  Page  1  of 5
PAKISTAN              - NOIAL INDICATRB DATA  H3
PAKISTANI                           RPBUZ C0117S9 (N N   AIIKRA  p8
MOST                (Mm RtmC= !ITZfA
nsa  lno&   zsLk    AAr6LOW=ICOM                   XORA
196011    19TO&      ZS= Lb         ASTA & PACVIC          ASIA & PACIIC
ToTAL                              803.9       s03.9       603.9
ACRICULTURAL                       227.5       243.3       253.3
CUW  a CAPITA U1S5)                    70.0      130.         380.0            27L6                   1091.2
(ILOGRAS OF OIL EqUIVALENT)         9L0        139.0       179.0            27LO                    567.3
rOsunTmn AM   mL STASTICS
POPUMATIOI.HID-TEAIL (THOUADS)   45851.0    60669.0      67125.0
URBAN POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)       22.1       24.9         29.1             21.7                    34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YLAk 2000 (HILL)                           139.6
SrATIONATr POPUATI  (nILL)                               377.3
POPULATION HWENI                                           1.9
POPULATION DEHsT
PER SQ. KM.                       57.0       75.2        105.1            166.6                   261.9
PER SQ. K. AML LAND              201.5      248.4        333.6            345.5                  I735.1
POPULATILN ACE STRUCURE CE)
0-14 YRS                         43.8        46.3        46.1             35.8                    39.0
15-64 IYR                         51.8      5.5          50.9             59.8                    57.6
65 AND ABOVE                       4.4        3.Z          Z.7              4.3                     3.3
POPULATION CRaU    RATE (2)
TOTAL                              2.3         2 8         3.0              1.9                     2.3
URBAI                              4.6         .o          4.3              4.1                     4.3
CrUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)        48.6       46.6         42.0             27.7                    30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TH0US)        23.4        19.3        15.4             10.1                     9.5
CROSS REPROObMON RATE                3.4        3.4          3.)              1.8                     L.0
FAMILY PLASINC
ACCEPrmRS. ANNUAL (2THUS)            .      1908.1      1244.0 le
USERS (2 OF MAUlED fUEN)            .         6.0 /d        ..               ..                    537
INDEX OF FOOD PROC. PER CAPITA
(196-71-100)                       89.0      10LO         105.0            11L.8                   123.0
PER CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRESENSl)      88.0       106.0       106.0             97.7                   114.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PEU DAT)          58.0       65.0         65.0             56.8                    57.0
OF UHICI ANIMAL AND PULSE       23.0        23.0        20.0 /e          14.9                    14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         25.4       21.0         16.8              9.8                     7.2
HS
LIFE EXPECT. AT 313TH (YEARS)       43.1       46.0         49.8             60.0                    60.4
WFANT ORT.it RATE (PER  D0us)      61.5      143.0        120.9             83.8                    66.3
ACCES TO SFE WATER (2P0P)
TOTAL                               .        21.0         29.0 If          33.9                    37.0
UN                                  ..        7.0         60. 0 f          70.9                    54.8
RURAL                               .         4.0         17.0 If          22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .          3.0         6.0 Ij          18.1                    41.3
URBAN                               .        12.0         21.0 J&          72.8                    47.4
RURAL                               ..         ..           ..              4.6                    33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSLCIAN          5400.0     4300.0/b    3480.0            3434.2                  7749.4
POP. PU NURSINC PERSON           16960.0    0os8o.oiF    S820.0            4793.1                  2460.4
POP. FR HOSPrAL NED
TOAL                            1790.0      1860.0      1560.0 Ie        1066.5                  1044.2
URMBA                            510.0      650.0        710.0 I-         298.0                   651.2
RURAL                          22850.0    12460.0      11860.0 Ie        393.4                   2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPItAL BED                                   ...                                    2.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         s. 3        6.1 /c
URBAN                              5.6        5.5          6.4 /c
RURAL                              5.4        5.2          6.0 Ic
AVERAGE 30. OF PEJtSDHSIROW4
TOTAL                              3.1        2.8 It
URBAN                              3.1        2.7 if        .  
RURAL                              3.1         L.8          ,.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DUELLIS)
TOrTAL                              ..        17.9 !1
URBAN                               ..       54-& 1l-
RURAL                               .           9



-23-                                      ANNEX 1
TAULE 3^                                      Page 2 or 5
PAKIUTAII             - SOCIAL IND1CAS0R8 DATA 5 EK
:MUITAN                            WERE   anCE    rs (WEIHTD  AVAGZ) La
INST              0HOT EcUNT ESTINATE) /b
IISuNT         WA INCOE             M IDDLE INC1E
leL       1t7O        TATb          ASIA G PACIFIC        ASIA  PACIFIC
ADISTD BROU T 3TM0
lIMAYR   TOTAL                    30.0       40.0        56.0             97.4                  102.0
HAIZ                   46.0       37.0        78.0            110.5                   105.9
FUALZ                  13.0       22.0        31.0             63.7                    98.2
SUCONDAIRT TOTAL                  11.0       13.0        17.0             35.9                   46.0
IULZ                   18.0       20.0        27.0             44.6                   48.7
PKUlZ                   3.0        5.0         7.0             26.8                   43.1
VOCATIONAL (2 0F SECOIAURY)         1.0         1.5         1.0 /c          2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-ThACHER RATIO
PaUlY                             39.0       41.0        48.0             38.5                   31.8
SECOUXN                          24.0        20.0        23.0 Le          13.7                   23.5
AWLT DlTUEACY  ATZ (2)              15.4       20.7 I      24.0 /e          53.4                   72.9
PAJSENItZ CARS/TIUAND POP            1.5        2.6         3.4             0.9                    10.1
RADIO RECIIESINDUU         POP      6.0        17.1        67.0            112.1                  113.6
TV RCEIERS/TIIOSAND POP              ..         1.6         9.7             15.7                   50.1
NUSPAPr (-"DAIL! CENUAL
INTESf') CIRCLATIUS
Pm TIrSAND POPtJLATION            13.2        ..         13.7 le          16.2                   53.9
CDI4I ANNUAL ATTEIDANU/CIAA          1.7        3.0 /.1     2.2 i            3.6                    3.4
TIOTAL ABR FPRCE (T90U3)         14448.0    17364.0     25240.0
PUAL  (PtSwr)                     8.6         9.3        10.5             33.3                   33.5
AORIcLTU   (mOm?)                 61.0       59.0        57.0             69.6                   52.2
Dnu       (PERcENT)               18.0       19.0        20.0             15.8                   17.9
PAXTICIPATRO RATE (PERCDiT)
TOTAL                             31.5       28.7        29.0             42.6                   38.7
HAIU                              55.2       50.4        49.3             54.7                   50.9
WL''uz                             5.7        5.5         6.0             29.8                   26.6
DCONlomC DEUEICY RATIO               1.5        1.7         1.8             1.0                     1.1
PERCEN Or PRIVATE ICmE
PIEVED IT
EICH=ST St O0 3D1S03E0W           20.3 hk    17.8          ..              ..                    22.2
rICUT? 202 Or MUSUWDS            .5.3 h      41.8         ..               ..                    48.0
LOIES" 202 OF 90039D3L1S           6.4 h      8.0          ..              ..                     6.
LWIFST 40K Or IISEHDLDS           17.5 h     20.2         ..               ..                    15.5
ESTW1AZED ABSOLUTE OVEr  INCE
IZVL (US$ PR CAPrTA)
cSiII                              ..        68.0 i     176.0 /c         133.9                  188.6
RURAL                              ..        47.0 j     122.0 IW         111.6                  152.0
ESTDAME RELATIVE POTY 
TEVEL  MSS    CAUA)
URAN                               ..        34.0        88.0 /C            .                   177.9
RURAL                              ..        22.0 j      58.0 k            ..                   164.6
ESTIMED POP. BMW ABSOLUTZ
POa ! NCQmS LZEEL (I)
UR                                 ..        40 /1       32.0 /c         43.8                    23.4
RURAL                              ..        43.0 I      29.0 re          51.7                   37.7
oTr AVAILALE
-         .  RSO APPLIDCAE
NOT E S
/a  7be grap averages for each Indicator are population-weigbted arltletic menus. Coverage of countries among the
indAcktors depeds on avidlAbLity of data an ls not unifon
jh  Unleas otherwise noted, "Dta for 1960" refer to any yar hetween 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' betwee  1969 and
1971: and data for "Hbet Rlea  etimatee between 1980 and 1982.
/e  1979; Ad, 1968:1. 1977; If 1976 /,L 1915;     eiasted, not all practicing la the couotry; i1 1973; Ij 1972; /
1964.192
JUNE. 1984



-24-
ANNEX I:
If OtiS eec-ms                                    ~Page 3 of 5
incmce  heeeee.ei ae mpcfi *eaeee es eceeutce  jasw es,ecepe.  ned yesrtEemae   eneRhee is niieeuee  e- due. ob5w .1ki. Mem -seeflein.  easEd ccit
a. raetobe.eS= mep     IIe ii . * c   de-elry msee ci em eebj.eimee - .5  651 ea inner shn, Rish ee        a Sut  .ee    i-   sin em easyP gree  or lhe
sehint gmeeese   mogeinem   111b eiu  ftme  se tgeeeene  oft" amr  1s1d4t. teemki mvii 111rte1e as1 ein"   serSc.=     bees .6  moeelr. eeeec-eshecee
fltee6lemset1.. seem  ! e.ce. met de. she esefle  em pemeesuce ninesd etofeelee nee  ice neth Widowe  adi %-s ey di.  ins11e  di she meehrlaee ii
amp hedee, fgr ekeL Liflesese'. eflmick neesOte .1 easeerme  oes she iseeeee  Cign  - em. s.e.hier     dee. ces se -  nbilc.k,.-eec bad De.m
mI."et=  em measure eceep  ad en esliceet  ceeihr. ie. .mmP.ee              -IF nip nea  ke whln s  tse em ete  et -  uste..e ste..      .. Bk seeciy a
M!nU5l -ites114.   Sctrierte    .   eimcy-meei e. ftMt5 Iceeecesest.nrsn   e.tstee 41e4sd.b e-.:ieei mrs.R.e
11WbliiTpesteic. eec      aeeeee    s. us. i~lkk.liee  iee                      s.tblaar.e .eu asne..kka                                  -oe 
eel.S as se  dee..                                                                PeeeLWOi%J e.lIuP., i~ 9   4- eq   :ek.'. pee J.%    . feeteee t  e-e'I .
CWAheMrEtie     - ow Ig  eottee setitee at citingt es~  preena.                         .1me  hi is gate. ne Waint. em-Ikaa  ad -e.eejiee  heP,ee ted
emN. 19.s-1e as ussc                                                                   I cc iee enPhp"s.;-. sesestiema. placits" pei"Speity musics
e.M  en s    fteunled. brel keopleie. la-W. tees.. "'I'c:e
cm....c.a.ue -bsIo obSUeie                             madts seMen' in gsce.eipns iteiald he shelis  teebyc  im
M"t  t-.. mbfeceue pee -A hidea-. mica                          asitee  .nesd. eti.M. set. I such .17ee t-e.ee ist   c.e"     ei   e
a    "eevae .aoteesees) is k Itieteve  ci ci1 cielceiset Per sepeLas ie.          fles.. flets- .cWme 1 eedtnt iceltitie
ass      eidclc.                                                              a1744m.lm    C.1 .ies be cleu-ec. -- celrce
-      iJeir II ieee. sefl, a  semiete
etiO    -Ig    erm ft c futewa poetitaso.sN MiiZieeiseie.i J~. -eeee                                               qe-le
I1   -  ,  -te. eeeormeicsly .1' disc                       Cair aS. enI.. ah. hcde- 1 edmer -, fleer  ae he teeled te
-aa emerecci ieee. isle,4 ags i    da-.                                             ih  secei   e  Steetcein  Ppwcne.
Ssceen efler .4 enn].-nsceew
ae.   np     o    cw  as ein    a  aML. besteier as tnItee149                         sseemep. e-pecs9teei. -Mvlsee.clde.e-re.eceeecca
haidd.   enecptne      ees tsrP-   ercelieg tee   mr- eithoo ohe-                 s.seepecd perec.
ten2. --ac. Lit  m ..       te  te-enic  etch ieee.  e..An.i  tlct  cen   elstel-eei  re.c   ec 
.epfe. Inin.atntit   epcnrceiuecc  11.1 Men                                      "Meetceeeeihii  cis eLctrieser ue1. ieee'.Mqeer .  pcse
L. cbI nmes   ice tesitee  ten eec, m.10ehee,a ant                        ettc.e5e              cl  ntq e9eiee
beecise0mUdeet,i   te.rtisc, .esdLce ec teem tent ase pce tadir
p5.eicipereem  .ech mecey L. ten ni.Ls en si thee -de
obbbatetec     S enecite  .d re..teicee  tefl ra p-ejeette  neT-..
SniainlMhs * 5. en Ce iSfi  a  eec-spectre. c   LIt                                                                              -p-ee   n        s.  ci.ci .  t
nreese he  See.icmee P.    esS-.     -   cetfavasne. C* inekk,t m -                 eclee?? eehe-di-a"se  MMe e.ctci.ez  isii   e..ia.  hidrce . n    -i
ad ie-c  ee th -dss ec. Ithe en sercer i. I-. cet... _d c                           c         ev. .&th -icr-L e.iseel  _esIi.. eeF c_eS in  _ --
iheel, Mas tn.   1k etctmr  s at..  Le en ceticic  ask-ie  em  pp. ce  See- eq.cc. t stele  c-ee ce..
S M u lMb-tr,    mec5e.ey icroeft"'    cese.-ereeeh    -4- enengutle  nl. ec  ten.e eserieer   eeeiesc  Per
g.. e    te         regedetinree%m  re"%'d ".t". 1%.                                seri, 555
etiis   eaicc  ee1-eSce. cce  psti in ie cm scs.   ieetCshr..cecte.cereercns -cr
reeceasin beset.                      alesacncr   ec _s.te                                                                 s nc  ccceet  e
rer  . -   - te-cr ceece .e  q eccr*. ..see  illse.cr.i c  scre-c.-en   nea
etee re.; 5540. S C,ate  cc                                                       ec icesye  rseci-Lcrs   heee.i -Ts        sete
-.ty       Ideea. ieee . adee In.1   a.                                           t       I-      5      t     11-         1.CM   S
-.eue  .ei   -1tr ie-Ien - C te-r.  Ct-it.eecel nIsiecmad
stains- Ieee. tees, as ieee dci.                                                          -aeeeirete m    cuItere,   ee5e t   .ss-. h..-ec. a
jbqact afieiseec iee ligene)-  tg    b-!R- Aei.eee   c.     c.                     ciecc  M-Iehies--ee.
pm pcejecsd..sht.s5.salsi,as  55.2.                                      SdebeneI     i.ee  e.sc..  p- i   cye  m --c eecr   cc. r
rentl..secth te eernel -eri. -debin trnst ra    .icmhede.c-een  inis per ebeSecs--- ci ee.tsse
emletee  cr sds-eLiee-IS,a s9.tZ                                                cttnSreteerc~ issere   cc.yer    e  cetne.sirt
Ced Mic asefe. emet -ded tnhun Per snecese ci e_i-                           m -tecice.  tTem    te    yt  eceeat 
~h au       4    5~    fet  eaepe   he    t  dyet                                 esn  se seeS             tan  -I rctee  en hr.seee
staaeiee.  iC5.        --F               0"  .oa.bel..i.                          de. - 0    e  er  hece  rerinee  -c.eicde.- seicecent we recne
tees.                                                          pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~taltsetee dented ert-ati  ee rece.  seeresq-   ee  . t  nee
vee rcc.ea- isees  sed  (c -bcede  - A             as-   . -- , r.ce               ce he dett, It Li snecp-   tin  fe-   e cee  c -
.1cce-nsesdes.  a  ceete  ai eceein  Ta!, Ptaes                                    tn.bec   sedcnerese.e-  er. esic                            .
FeR---:                                                                           eLee.nedetmseyc.icetseene.In-c5c    e
Tet     f eese- ser  eeec .1_kt Sfl-  .c.I -ersecec  oerrec. ee
fltt-hee   5   nnere. a             .ted it-. - theg W e c                                    -ij t7ti.eentl     -iue.el .u.ainee   e.trs..e..
UrL  4-M   - tollb. 0 ~      ~       ~       ee-eeic eNe5  e tts- tn    ne-ima reere c-I   ee 
ems  "'ene -   cel  as. "     csc". ""I"eces- c d.1 eadd  9-tse tWeps is FncesceI.Pcreeers.lesi                                                  lopA
ccscr -  lee.   --- eflc)cs  enl  -itec        Jecie ertaa 5e.e                         In,42.-tiereiecic.ttecen    eee.rsa
ecite a  ee -eeeeded.  serceee easci. cieec  ene  It                   esesese.  et  scm-   r-c    i tec "lihec    f -Te   n    T
Sees -netenscars   ress-sersee..teeec iee -rn   es.aie                as sec dCcc.=iIaWa,d
Uq sets         ap'--ft              - l'Pd*_.                                     seINr.teccin ic- teerceet - cse ani Mad        atL. -'icestete   -ebtee
1stsctt mcI ci ~ nUre icene ci eeta m               - tnbl  mccityrnenc.e    tcc.t. a=ss, as tee  teSt ter C."
emee   .acaeea Mi and       n.rtcee esicci  tecer  Tee eei._ pe                       eerSese.aecdtneTeeccescia-   emetey
net.ee  tetle  hy rce hend n  hpetealiccsec    M. tee esec                     is L u              bfe. - F.ete or wesete- -ace es ad ai se re
em. asen diccemete  ci ee rleeca  a  lciea.s,i peceeps tee..cSo                                                                                   V
P.- "esehet ee      " tetoS-le.15.   g~In .-J-. wtMEI
-be set.- c Isis ci eseee src eer den-   - rns   ne   iptrpc                        en.ee Print. l-e.es1hech i-ree  .S ee               - cc.  1- ree.s -
en  mci et lie  pe "  ey  se  cety S las .    e= ca 1 Paece.  he-                   peTcs. etebvt Rd e.r.nt pee-eec. S  eeel  dpeee  5pee
ctt  ci . cem          -cel -e.t abd    de-  as Sum.t   awa  ste  as
stasL-d  c.c.esethnSt               mr   iceet"  ereet-e1 asM -1 Leoe                -SSle-ie4e aesWne    cL. sTy     -Lrctec  e-rcc cipnsc    tnt.
cieelpcee .e   ee-te  h   eu.ec                      ie   se                        a abamchie.iye   theeist   etn
lets  Z.dv    eb   ees.ie   ses   n.iealand Secict  eeste     in   ieersecl    rce  ec
%-),tcSts        - eetlti   --  eeiah. i.s ft-b-  L.n                           ecenet    "nse ,ce  "c.pneetcte-esTeItec.
d    _c- Lc-c.b    -aneiic-ee-ft-eMh7t M. 
.-id ice. d-i eccec4 bte ic. chenL.  -90 a IM bdec  peeehna  5 d-                      e     RIn Pence. Reta saeie  ef0ecl-  erkteft9-          AS rere 
~~4~~s.aette 4cecof.                                                                eec.d.a.
knec It  e-r teree ceW ceesacee   - sec -.ssh.ai  r. re5 -                                                                             J- D_
emr e.cp  Centesa   eme hais- nPr  ceene                    -1ts5scesee                                                             cnescnkmcce
ten e  a  -i he eneaee  a  Ulm etcsee feahIc-b  .1              .1' the
m . 1CM s.d           badmi  men MIPd tete enwta-bt mte er 
am 4   L. Cb09b ftmalt le i      -e use c  spsedcee  Te
scee         bye.t    .c  c    -eeecmn -  ceep t.ala.Sr_ ret



-25-
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DVVELOPINET DATA
CGN PER CAPITA      19B2:  WS340 L/
GROSS NATIONL PRODUCT IN 1983/84 /b                                    AINIIL RATE OF GROMII  (Z. constant Driced)
U5S Billion        2              1969/70-1974/75  1975176-19B81  1981182  1911283  1983184
CNP at market prices            33.68         100.0                  3.5              7.1           4.3      7.4      4.2
Gross dnmeutic ixvestumet        5.23          15.5                 -5.5              4.1          10.5      9.6      3.4
Crss national maving             4.20          12.5                 -2.1              6.7           6.9    24.9    -6.5
Current account balance         -1.00          -3.0
Exports of goods. NFS            3.44          10.2       *         -3.5              7.3          -5.6     27.5    -3.2
Imports of goods. NFS            7.06          21.0                 -7.1              5.5           0.7      1.1    22.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTrIVIrT IN 1933/84
Value Added                 Labor Force /c               V. A. Per Vorker
$ million   7                Million    Z                    USS     Z
Agriculture                     6.652     24               14.1      51                    472    47
Industry /d                     B.096     29                5.2      19                  1.557   155
Service.                       12.931    47                8.3       30                  1.55N   j5.
TotallAverage                27.679    100               27.6    100                   1,003   100
GOVERtNHET FINAICE
Central Government le                           Federal Govern eet
(Re billion)           Z of GOP              (Re billion)         Z of GDP
1983/84 Lf    1983184  1978/79-1983/84        19U3/84 Lf  19831/4  1978179-19B3/84
Current receipts                      73.2         17.4         16.6               58.2        13.9         12.4
Current expenditures                 80.3          19.1         23.5               62.8        15.0         13.2
Current surplus                       -7.2        -1.7          -6.3               -4.6       -1.1         -0.4
Capital expenditures L&              34.2           8.1          9.4               34.2         7.0          8.0
External aseistance (net)              6.0          1.4          2.1                6.0         1.4          2.1
NOMEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1974175   1975176   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979180  19B0/81   1981/S2  1982183  1983184 lb
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money Li                 33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6   146.0    162.5
Bank credit to public sector            21.2       28.1      36.6      43.5      54.9      61.8      70.9      79.7    95.5   105.6
Bank credit to private sector            16.0      17.8      23.0      26.5      30.9      36.9      41.9      51.3    62.8    77.8
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as 2 of GDP        29.5      31.5      34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)      211.3     229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1           462.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price indez                     23.6       8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3      13.1       7.6       3.5      10.5
r     Bank credit to public sector                       32.5      30.2      18.8      26.2      12.6      14.7      12.4      19.8      10.6
BAnk credit to private sector                      11.2      29.2      15.2      16.6      19.4      13.5      22.4     22.4       23.9
la Based on World Bank Atlas methodology and calculated at an average of 1980-82 prices and excbange ratee. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average excbange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Ib Provisional.
Ie  Projection for 1983184. Does not include unemployed labor force.
Id  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction end electricity and gas.
Ie  Conolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial Government
t-anafers).
If Revised budget data.
L& Excluding principal repayments of foreign loans. Capital expenditures as defined in goverment budget include
certain current expenditures also.
Ih  Provisional.
Ii Monetary statistics of Pakistan bave been fully adjusted for demonetized notes. devaluation and revaluation of the
rupee. etc. as from June 30, 1975. Data for 1974/75 from State Bank sources are not strictly comparable with IMP
estimates for earlier years.
Not applicable.
Not available.
..rch 1985



-26-
Pag 5 of 5
IAUCR 0  PAYNfTS                                                                            SIU  fmo   R    19791 8-1983/84)
1L79/00  1980/U   ISBI/82  198283   19813/14                                  IILUIL -llen 
cueS miilon)
Exports of good, 1.               2,955    3,461    3.052    3,416      3,439    e a  cottan                        315.3        11.9
Import. of goode., Mg8            5709    6 UM      6679  6S5U8         7f058         Ctton yarn                    214.7         3.1
Rasoure gap (deficit - -)       -2,754   -3,005   -3.627   -3,172    -3,619          cotton cloth                  281.1        10.6
Rice                         417.9        15.8
Istr*eat paymenta                  -285     -357      -453    -421       -477         All other coeditiea        1J4224         53 6
Votter.t ramLtt.neaa              1,74     2,097    2,224    2,867      2,737           Total                     2,651.4       100.0
Other factor paymt. (nat)           151       274      321      195       359
NUt traumfra                             ..... &A.
Balance on current account       -1,140     -991   -1,535      -511    -1,000                  UTENIAIL DOT. ion 1984
Direct foraip invet t
Eaot  LT borwin                                                                                                             m#auzaa
Diabur    at                    1,134      956    1.102    1.301      1.248
Amortization                     -310   __16J    -492    -3J6          --569        Public debt, incLuding gurantaed        9,890.4
Sub-total                         824      440      610       915       679         Nan-guarataad private debt Ie
Trmnaactios with IW la              78       315      358      413        -1           Total outatndin  ad diuborsed         9,390.4
Other itema .e.i. Lk                600      546       318      285       142
increase in reaerve s-)            -362     -310       249   -1,102       180           DIET SERICE RATrO FMO 1983184 L
Croea racervam (end year) IS        748    1.058       809    1.911     1,731
Petrolemu imports Ia              1,079    1.535    1,710    1,610      1,423         Public debt, including guaranteed          15.6
Petrolema  exports It               178       126      194       77        40         Non-guarateed private debt
Total                                -15.6
RATE OF ZXCEAUGE                                                                         INUIIDA LSUIEnC (December 1983) (CSS million)
Throubh Nov 11. 1972               From Ma  12. 1972-feb. 15  1973                                                       TMz        a
uSS1 - Re 4.7619                          USS1 - Re 11.00                          Outatanding and diAburaed            350.7  1.14.7
Re 1 - VSSO.21                            Is 1 - USSO.09 Ondiaberaed                                                    197.0    617.2
Outatanding including undiaburted   547.7  1,761.9
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982   F7- July 1981-June 1982 Ia         From July 1982-June 1983 LL      From July 1983-June 1984 IL
US$ 1 - Rs 9.90                      US$1 - Ra 10.55                 USSI - Rs 12.75                  USS1 - Rs 13.50
in  I 2  SS  10                      R 1- 0SSO-095                  Rs 1 - VS0.078                   Re 1  -USSO.074
/a  Including Truet Fund.
Lk Including net abort-term borrowing and errors and o.iaiona.
fe  Excluding gold reaervea of about 1.8 million tray ounces.
at  Crude ad derivatives.
fe Eon-guaranteed private debt amrvice i neuligible.
/f Ratio of actual debt aervice to ezpart. of goods, factor and non-factor serrices; debt aervice includes YFl charges.
1ft Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is to hc managed with reference to a weighted baeket of currenciea. The average
exchage rate aboun in via-a-via US$ for the period abown.
Not available.
Marcb 1985



-27-
ANNDEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF LUXt1  LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (so of March 3;. 1985) L&
CUSS million)
Loan/                                                  (Amount nec of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                               Undis-
Number    Year    Purpose                              Bank   TW      IDA      burned
Ninety-eight loans end credits fully disbursed 1b    781.4  32.0  1.001.6LL
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khsirpur)    -                14.0      3.5
1366T     1977   Punjab Liveetock Development          -     10.0     -         3.5
754       1978   Salinity Control A RBclamation        -              70.0    66.8
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.             -              12.5      4.2
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Nardan)   -                60.0     53.6
892       1979   Primary Education                     -              10.0      3.9
9Z2       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension           -               9.0      4.6
968       1980   Third WAPDA Power                     -              45.0      6.4
974       1980   Third Highway                         -              50.0     20.7
1019      1980   PICIC Industrial Development          -              40.0      3.7
llO9le    1981   Vocational Training                   -              25.0      8.4
11131e    1981   Smell Induatries                      -              30.0      0.4
11571e    1981   Crain Storage                         -              32.0     16.7
11581e    1981   Agricultural Research                 -              24.0     15.1
1163/e   1981   On-Farm Water Management               -              41.0     13.0
il861e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)      -              30.0      4.8
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication               40.0           -        13.8
2172      1902   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5            -        26.5
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities      10.2           -        10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)            10.0           -         5.9
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines    43.0             -        42.2
12391e_   1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -               40.0     25.2
12431e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig.  Agr.       -              14.0     10.6
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                  -               7.0      4.7
12781e    1982   Eleventb Railway Project              -              50.0     39.5
1348te    1983   Labore Urban Development              -              16.0     14.0
1350ft    1983   Populatiou                            -              18.0    14.1
l3551e    1983   Coal Engineering                     -                7.0      6.3
1374Le    1983   Karachi Water Supply                  -              25.0     22.0
1375ft    1983   Fourtb Drainage                       -              65.0    58.8
1380/e   1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)   -                 47.8     17.2
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project          12.0           -         9.0
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                 51.5           -        48.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development 30.0             -        24.2
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit          50.0           -        49.9
1439te   1984   Industrial Investment Credit           -              50.0     44.6
14611e    1984   Integrated Hill Farming Development -                21.0    19.9
1480_e  1984   Second Technical Assistance             -               7.0      6.5
1487      1984   Command Water Management              -              46.5     43.3
1499      1984   Second Small Industries               -              50.0     44.0
1532fc    1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage I   -               150.0    150.0
15331c    1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                8.3      8.3
2499tc   1985   Fourth WAPDA Power                    100.0   _       -       100.0
Total                                               1.166.6  42.0  2,115.9  1,088.3
of which bas been repaid                            490.2   3.8     39.8
Total now outstanding                                 676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Amount sold                 23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                     -
Total now held by Bank and IDALd                      676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Total undisbureed                                     330.0   3.5    754.8  1.088.3
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all laukIDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors oan April 30 and October 31.
tb  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan whicb have now been taken over by Bangladesb.
tc Not yet effective.
td  Prior to exchange adjustment.
fte  DA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. The principal
is shown in USS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursemnts.
/f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAZ (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63      -         0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing               -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92        3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78     -         1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       99.32    1.56    100.88
1985     National Dev.         Money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.       3.44    0.38       3.82
Total Gross Commitments                   179.91   11.33    191.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               131.59    0.38    131.97
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          48.32   10.95       59.27
Undisbursed (including participants)       6B.70    0.70      69.40



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project:
Seven months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Federal and provincial governments assisted by consultants.
Cc) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project:
June 1984
Id) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1984
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 17, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Approval of project PC-1 documents by ECNEC (condition
of effectiveness, para. 54);
(b) Criteria for determining length of watercourses to be
lined, selecting watercourses to be renovated, and
siting water storage tanks to be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 42);



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) COP to sign contract with supervisory consultants by
December 31, 1955 (para. 51);
(d) COP to submit M&E program by October 31, 1985 for IDA
review and sign contract for evaluation by Karch 31,
1986 (para. 52); and
Ce) Provinces to recover agreed percentage of cost of
construction materials (para. 61).



PAK ISTAN
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
balisddoian Ptvinw Profs Ama                                                              y
-           w'~~~o  comWnivAmoruwg.u.edbow
;                O<V_h*sUI                                           ;             _       Z~~ H O |-S>A
It.                                                                                                                                              Sp.
AI                                                                                                             N
KNARAN~~~~~~~~~~~
I SL AM IC                                                                 e
R E P U B L I C~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iuAvt



PA KISTAN KLS   .e
SECONDON-AMWATERMANAGEMENT PROJECa                      . U. .S
N"Wefod - h_A?* -o                                    *)A           t
- D             '                    /.i  ' mq._.g.vg
t                 ./            CHIpAt       l I~~C
1-~~ ,                                           -_ 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o \K ,t;A NDe
A    GH    N I S T ANMHM   D
2i.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
/    souZIIS AN                                                           P       U N J A B
1~~~~ ~~ -                                                                  II/  /         ,                  -I
.r 8HA
an,  ,,                  AP. .                                      ,- ,,,...              --- '-             ..   _



PA K 1ST A N                                              -
SECOND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
_p C--_ g t < W  *---                                                                         KA  S H M  I R
////  ff | /-_ _'tA*>PRA                                INDI
KCAWVIArT
-3P        F-LI 1 WWI                                                                                   .gp.w.ubLC.",u
v _ _ -                ~~/     R A       ') *fi, u~ N- D\I 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
-  ~TA
I-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
-   -   .



PAK I S TA N
SECOND ONFARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT
. mw,% X,    h,*d,
g            ~~~P U N J A 0
-    /
_'~ fumsp1bu.
*                                                                        PUNJ   AlA2K  NA    KK  
-^~~~~.                              XHAfF R
o  M.bh.. .i_
-U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
3.             U/~dd                          *,         PH R U   -'            -<                             _
(           tKARACA .  HY  E
obfer~~~~~ IS S U                       *  3 UR
@            i   ?                          ,         , NA THAR   PA|
3.
ALUC                      H                                                      .      AGA  
im~~~
i-                                          l8 A. D. I NS or



