Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H301-KH  
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Greater Mekong Subregion Power Trade (Cambodia) Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
ELECTRICITE du CAMBODGE 
 
Dated August 14, 2007 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and ELECTRICITE du 
CAMBODGE (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with 
the Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the Kingdom 
of Cambodia (“Recipient”) and the Association.  The Association and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II – PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Parts A, B, 
C, and D(a) and (b) of  the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is Managing Director, 
Electricité du Cambodge
.
Page  3
2
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
St. 19 Wat Phnom 
Daun Penh District,  
Phnom Penh 12200 
Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
+855-23-426938 
 
AGREED at Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
ELECTRICITE DU CAMBODGE 
 
By: /s/ HE YIM NOLSON  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, throughout the period of implementation 
of the Project, maintain the EdC-PMU with terms of reference, staffing and other 
resources acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the overall coordination and 
supervision of the execution of the Project, including undertaking to procure, through the 
services of the procurement agent unless otherwise agreed, and carrying out financial 
management, and the associated environmental and resettlement activities; with reference 
to staff, in addition to the Project Manager: (a) professional staff will be assigned for 
coordinating inter alia, resettlement and environmental management (social and 
environment specialists); and (b) a project implementation consultant will be engaged to 
assist in review of detailed design and technical specifications, supervise construction, 
testing and commissioning; and to provide on-the-job training in project management. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall enter into the Subsidiary Agreement with 
the Recipient, which shall include the provisions set out in Section I.B of the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall enter into by June 30, 2008 power 
purchase agreements acceptable to the Association with: (a) Power Company (PC-2) of 
Vietnam for Part A of the Project; and (b) 
Electricité du Laos
 for Part B of the Project. 
 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights and carrying out its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall coordinate with the relevant power 
utilities of the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
to achieve the objectives of the Project. 
 
6.  
The EdC-PMU shall, for Part A of the Project, coordinate technical design, 
construction scheduling and progress, and commissioning of the 115 kV transmission line 
through regular meetings with MIME, and Power Company (PC-2) of Vietnam, and for 
Part B of the Project with MIME, and 
Electricité du Laos
 of Lao P
eople’s Democratic 
Republic. 
 
Page  5
4
B. Safeguards.
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the Initial 
Environmental Examination and Environmental Management Plan designed to ensure 
that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound environmental practices and 
standards;  
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for 
the Association’s prior approval any 
revision proposed to be introduced into said Initial Environmental Examination and 
Environmental Management Plan, in order to achieve its respective objectives, and, 
thereafter, only introduce such revision into said plan as shall have been agreed with the 
Association; and 
 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Management Plan, and the 
achievement of its objectives. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:   
 
(a) 
take and cause to be taken all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
 
(b) 
to this end, implement the Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
provide to the Association for their prior approval any revision proposed 
to be introduced into said Resettlement Action Plan, in order to achieve its respective 
objectives, and, thereafter, only introduce such revision into said plan as shall have been 
agreed with the Association; and 
 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Resettlement Action Plan, and the achievement of its objectives. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  
Page  6
5
Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Recipient not later two (2) weeks after the end of the period covered by 
such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the Association of the 
overall Project Report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these 
financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Association) of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements 
for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of the period.
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
4. 
(a) 
Except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall promptly take any and all 
measures necessary to ensure, for each of its Fiscal years commencing in its Fiscal Year 
2008 that its estimated net revenues for each of such Fiscal Year shall be at least 1.3 
times the estimated debt service requirements of the Project Implementing Entity in such 
year on all of its debts. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Paragraph: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Project 
Implementing Entity maturing by its terms more than one (1) 
year after the date on which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:   
 
(A) 
under a loan contract or agreement (including, but 
without limitation, this Agreement), or other instrument 
providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
Page  7
6
terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and  
 
(B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into, and 
such incidence of debt shall include the assumption and 
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension or 
modification of the terms of the debt or of the 
assumption or guarantee thereof. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income, after making 
adequate provisions for doubtful debts; and  
 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.  
 
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between:   
(A)  
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and  
 
(B)  
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vi) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Recipient, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
 
5. 
(a) 
Except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not incur any debt if, after the 
Page  8
7
incidence of such debt, the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than one and one-half to 
one (1.5:1), except in the Fiscal Year 2009 when it shall not be greater than 1.7:1. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Paragraph: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means the same as provided therefore in Sub-
paragraph 4(b)(i) of Section II.B, and it shall be deemed to be 
incurred in the same manner as provided therefore in Sub-
paragraph 4(b)(ii) of Section II.B. 
 
(ii) 
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings, surplus and reserves of the Project 
Implementing Entity not allocated to cover specific liabilities. 
 
(iii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Recipient, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the same 
basis as provided therefore in Sub-paragraphs 4(v) and (vi) of 
Section II.B. 
 
6. 
(a) 
Except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall produce for each of its Fiscal 
Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 2007, total revenues equivalent to not 
less than the sum of its: (i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt 
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Paragraph: 
 
(i) 
The term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income. 
 
(ii) 
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the same as 
provided therefore in Sub-paragraph 4(b)(iv). 
 
(iv) 
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payment in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis, at a rate of not less than four 
percent (4%)  per annum of the average current gross value of 
the Project Implementing Entity’s fixed assets in operation or 
other bases acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt. 
Page  9
8
(v) 
The average current gross value of the Project Implementing 
Entity
’s fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half 
the sum of the gross value of the Project Implementing Entity’s 
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the 
fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
(vi) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the same as 
provided therefore in Sub-paragraph 4(b)(v). 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Recipient, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the same 
basis as provided therefore in sub-paragraph 4(b)(vi). 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
1. 
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
 
2. 
Except as otherwise agreed to between the Recipient and the Association, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall use the services of a procurement agent contracted by 
the MEF under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association for procurement to be 
undertaken under the Project. 
 
