Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H301-KH  
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Greater Mekong Subregion Power Trade (Cambodia) Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   August 14, 2007  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H301-KH 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 14, 2007, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
CAMBODIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twelve 
million 
three 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights                      
(SDR 12,300,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
2
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) t
he
Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Financing 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project Implementing Entity will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the Subsidiary Agreement 
being executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms;  
 
(b) 
that the Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental 
Management Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan have been duly 
adopted by the Project Implementing Entity and are consistent with the 
applicable laws of the Kingdom of Cambodia; and 
 
(c) 
that the procurement agent is contracted by MEF. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
Page  5
3
payment obligations) shall terminate twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sang Kat Wat Phnom 
 Phnom 
Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
855-23-427798  
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By: /s/ Keat Chhon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Ian Porter 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to enhance power trade within the Greater Mekong 
Sub-Region with a view to also bringing affordable grid-based electricity to selected 
provinces in Cambodia through import of power from the 
Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
115 kV Transmission system—Vietnam border to Kampong Cham
Construction of a 115 kV double circuit transmission line from Kampong Cham 
substation to the Cambodia-Vietnam border, and construction of associated substations in 
Kampong Cham, Suong, and Kraek. 
 
Part B
:
115 kV Transmission System—Lao border to Stung Treng
Construction of a 115 kV double circuit transmission line from Stung Treng to 
the Cambodia-Laos border (at Veun Kham), and construction of associated substation in 
Stung Treng.  
 
Part C
:
Technical Assistance
For the contracts for supply and installation proposed for Parts A and B of the 
Project, strengthen the capabilities of 
E
lectricité du Cambodge 
in: 
 
(a) bid documents preparation, evaluation, and contract finalization; and  
 
(b) subsequent management of the contracts. 
 
Part D
:
Institutional Development
Strengthen the capabilities of: 
 
(a) 
Electricité du Cambodge
’s internal audit office through the provision of 
advisory services; and 
 
(b) 
Electricité du Cambodge
 for design of high voltage transmission system 
and optimizing system dispatch, through the provision of technical advisory services.  
 
Page  8
6
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements.  
 
1. 
The Recipient shall designate, for the duration of the Project, staff of MIME to 
coordinate the implementation of the overall Project with the EdC-PMU on a regular 
basis.  
 
2. 
 The Recipient shall coordinate with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic to achieve the objectives of the Project, and cause the 
Project Implementing Entity to coordinate with: (a) Power Company (PC-2) of Vietnam; 
and (b) 
Electricité du Laos
.
3. 
The Recipient shall coordinate with and cause the Project Implementing Entity to 
enter into by June 30, 2008 power purchase agreements with: (a) Power Company (PC-2) 
of Vietnam for Part A of the Project; and (b) 
Electricité du Laos
 for Part B of the Project. 
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement.
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the financing available to the Project Implementing Entity through a Loan 
which consists of the amounts of the financing drawn down for the purpose of Parts A, B, 
C(b), and D(a) and (b) of the Project, and through a grant which consists of the amounts 
of the financing drawn for the purpose of Part C(a). 
 
2. 
The Loan will be made available through the Subsidiary Agreement under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The lending terms of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the principal amount shall be made available as a loan in United States 
Dollars and repaid by the Project Implementing Entity in Khmer Riels at the average 
official rate of exchange as determined by the National Bank of Cambodia on the 
respective dates on which the proceeds of the loan are repaid by the Project Implementing 
Entity to MEF; 
 
(b) 
repayment of the proceeds of the Loan over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;  
 
(c)  
payment of interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at the rate four percent (4%) per year; and  
Page  9
7
(d)  
payment of a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn balance at the rate 
payable by the Recipient pursuant to Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
Other terms of the Subsidiary Agreement shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(i)  
undertake to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate management, 
financial, engineering and public utility practices and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Association, and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other 
resources required for the purpose; and  
 
(ii)  
without limitation on the foregoing, take all measures necessary 
to ensure that the Project and related activities shall be 
implemented in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental 
Management Plan; 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to procure, through the 
services of the procurement agent unless otherwise agreed, the goods, works and 
consultants
’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, 
works and consultants’ services exclusively in the carrying out of the Project; 
 
(c) 
the Project Implementing Entity 
shall 
undertake to enable the Recipient 
and the Association to inspect such goods and the sites and works included in the Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to 
be made payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods; 
 
(e) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to: 
 
(i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition; 
 
Page  10
8
(ii) 
retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Project until at least the later of: (A) one (1) 
year after the Recipient and the Association have 
received the audited financial statements covering the 
period during which the last withdrawal from the 
Financing Account was made; and (B) two (2) years 
after the Closing Date;  
 
(iii) enable the Recipient and the 
Association’s 
representatives to examine such records; 
 
(iv) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(v) 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(vi) 
furnish to the Recipient and the Association as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited; an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors in such scope and detail as the 
Recipient and the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and all such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Recipient and the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
(vii) 
prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such 
other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Recipient 
and the Association shall reasonably request; 
 
(f) 
the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake to: 
 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Recipient and the Association the carrying out 
of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
Page  11
9
(ii) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Recipient and the Association for their review, 
consolidation in the Project Reports and submission to the 
Association, semi-annual reports integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (f) on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of each such report; and  
 
(g) 
the Recipient shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
Project Implementing Entity to the use of the proceeds of the Loan made available under 
the Subsidiary Agreement with said Project Implementing Entity upon failure by such 
Project Implementing Entity to perform its obligations under such agreement.    
 
5. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of 
its provisions.
 
C. Safeguards.
 
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
implement and cause to be implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, the Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Management 
Plan designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards;  
 
(b) 
provide to the Association for its prior approval any revision proposed to 
be introduced into said Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental 
Management Plan in order to achieve its respective objectives, and, thereafter, only 
introduce such revision into said plan as shall have been agreed with the Association; and 
 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Management Plan, and the 
achievement of its objectives. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall:   
 
(a) 
take and cause to be taken all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
 
Page  12
10
(b) 
to this end, implement and cause to be implemented the Resettlement 
Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
provide to the Association for its prior approval any revision proposed to 
be introduced into said Resettlement Action Plan, in order to achieve its respective 
objectives, and, thereafter, only introduce such revision into said plan as shall have been 
agreed with the Association; and 
 
(d) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, the implementation 
of said Resettlement Action Plan, and the achievement of its objectives. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
Page  13
11
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the method of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such method may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Shopping. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) 
Quality Based Selection; 
(b) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications; 
(c) 
Single Source Selection; and 
(d) Individual 
Consultants.
 
Page  14
12
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed 
for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1)  Goods and Consultants’ 
Services for the Project 
10,800,000  
100 % excluding  
taxes and duties 
 
(2)  Works 
 
1,300,000  
 
95% including  
taxes and duties 
 
(3)  Incremental Operating Costs 
for the Project Implementing 
Entity 
 
200,000 
 
100 % including  
taxes and duties 
TOTAL AMOUNT
12,300,000
Page  15
13
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
All taxes and duties that may be applicable in implementing the Project will be 
borne by the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Unless otherwise agreed to between the Recipient and the Association for the 
purposes of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall cause the 
Project Implementing Entity to use the services of a procurement agent contracted by the 
MEF under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association for procurement to be 
undertaken under the Project.  
 
C. 
For the purposes of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, guidance for 
implementing the Procurement Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines is provided in 
the Kingdom of Cambodia’s Externally Assisted Project Procurement Manual: Goods, 
Works and Services, issued under Sub-Decree 14 dated February 26, 2007, on 
Promulgating of the Standard Procedure for Implementing the World Bank and the Asian 
Development Bank Assisted Projects.   
Page  16
14
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004.  
 
3. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in (A) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
4. 
’Fiscal Year‘ means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of the 
Recipient’s financial years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year, and the term ’Fiscal Years‘ means, 
collectively, more than one (1) Fiscal Year. 
 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
6. 
“Greater Mekong Subregion Power Trade (Lao PDR) Project” means the Project 
to be agreed to between the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and the 
Association to enhance power trade within the Sub-Region with a view to 
bringing reliable electricity to selected provinces in Lao PDR, and creating the 
conditions for eventual interconnections of Lao PDR with other countries of the 
region. 
 
7. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable and necessary expenditures 
directly related to the implementation and monitoring of the Project, incurred by 
the Project Implementing Entity (which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project), including expenditures for office space, office 
supplies, utilities, communications services (including telephone and internet 
costs), publication services, translation services, maintenance of office 
equipment, and vehicle operation costs, but excluding salaries of officials and 
employees of the Recipient and 
 
Electricité du Cambodge
.
8. 
“Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental and Management Plan” 
and “Plan” mean the Plan dated February 20, 2007, approved by 
Electricité du 
Page  17
15
Cambodge
,
which sets out the environmental protection measures in respect of 
the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of said Plan, as said Plan may be revised from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association.  
 
9. 
“Loan” means the part of the proceeds of the Financing which will be on-lent to 
the Project Implementing Entity to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, 
pursuant to Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
10. 
“MEF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“MIME” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industries, Mines and Energy, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 22, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
14. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association, and the 
Project Implementing Entity, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement.  
 
15. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means 
Electricit
é
du
Cambodge
,
the electricity 
utility of the Recipient established and operating as a limited liability company 
pursuant to the Royal Decree No. NS 0396/10, dated March 9, 1996, for 
generation, transmission and distribution of electric power throughout Cambodia, 
and such term includes any successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“Project  Implementing  Entity’s  Legislation”  means  the  Royal  Decree  No.           
NS 0396/10 dated March 9, 1996, pursuant to which 
Electricité du Cambodge
 
was established, Sub-decree No. 23 dated May 23, 1996, and the Electricity Law 
dated February 2, 2001, and other laws, decrees, sub-decrees, directives, 
resolutions and regulations which may from time to time govern, control or 
regulate the operations of 
Electricité du Cambodge
.
17. 
“Project Management Unit of the Project Implementing Entity” and “EdC-PMU” 
mean the unit within the Project Implementing Entity responsible for the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Page  18
16
18. 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the plan dated April 25, 2007, approved by 
Electricité du Cambodge,
 which sets out the policies and procedures for the 
acquisition of land and other assets, resettlement, compensation and 
rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, as said Plan may be revised from time to 
time with the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
19. 
“
Greater Mekong Sub-Region” means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Kingdom 
of Thailand, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar, Yunan province 
of People’s Republic of China, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. 
 
20. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
