Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/02/2011 
Report No.:  AC6278
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Cambodia 
Project ID:  P105329 
Project Name:  GMS Power Trade (Cambodia) Project 
Task Team Leader:  Jie Tang 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 15, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 5, 2007 
Managing Unit:  EASTS 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Power (100%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (40%);Regional 
integration (40%);Rural services and infrastructure (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
18.50 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1.50
1.50 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Repeater [] 
 
 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Project is to enhance regional power trade within the Greater 
Mekong Sub-Region with a view to also bringing affordable grid-based electricity to 
selected provinces in Cambodia through import of power from Lao PDR.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project consists of the following activities before and after the proposed 
restructuring:  
 
1)
Component C-1 (cancelled). Construction of a 115 kV transmission system from 
Vietnam Border to kampong Cham (to be cancelled through the restructuring);  
 
2)
Component C-2 (restructured). Construction of a 230 kV transmission system from 
Lao PDR Border to Stung Treng (115 kV original, to be upgraded to 230 kV through the 
restructuring);  
 
3)
Component C-3 (restructured). Activities to facilitate implementation of Components 
C-1 and C-2, including: (i) consulting services for project management and design of C-1 
and C-2 (to be reduced to Component C-2 only through the restructuring); (ii) mitigation 
of social and environmental impacts of C-1 and C-2 (to be reduced to Component C-2 
only through the restructuring); (iii) provisions of vehicle, computers and office 
Page  2
equipment;  and (iv) Provision for Independent Procurement Agent (under separate 
financing arrangement, to be cancelled through the restructuring).  
 
The Project also includes Incremental Oper
ating Cost to Electricité Du Cambodge (Ed) 
to cover necessary and reasonable incremental operating expenditures.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project involves construction of a 230 kV transmission line from the Lao PDR 
Border to Stung Treng in the north of Cambodia. Construction of the transmission line 
would require land acquisition of a 50 meters wide transmission corridor along the line 
route, for erection of steel towers and hanging conductors on the towers, and installation 
of a transformer at Stung Treng Substation.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Bunlong Leng (EASTS) 
Mr Jun Zeng (EASCS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The Land acquisition required for the proposed tower sites for the 230 kV transmission 
line from the Laotian Border to Stung Treng will be 2.9025 ha (i.e., 225m2 each tower 
with an  
 
estimated 129 towers). The proposed substation site in Kamphun Village, Kamphun 
Commune, Se San District (14 Km from Stung Treng town) will be 4.0 ha with an 
additional 1.0 ha required for the access road leading to the substation. Therefore, the 
total land acquisition required is estimated to be 7.9025 ha.  
 
Most of the 2.9025 ha required for the project towers is Government owned land and 
forest.  
 
The route of the proposed Transmission Line ROW has been situated 100 - 200 meters 
from the center of NR 7 in order to avoid resettlements. Along this route there are around 
30 small  
Page  3
wooden houses and huts with an average size of (4m x 4m) that will be affected by the 
line. And some 1500 trees will be removed for ROW clearance.  
 
The transmission line route has been chosen to avoid villages, the environmentally 
sensitive areas and important view-scape areas   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No major indirect and/or long term impacts are anticipated.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
For the 230 kV transmission system from Lao PDR Border to Stung Treng in Cambodia, 
the towers in the areas where the birds are to be protected will take a different design, 
with a height not more than 25 meters, to avoid impacts on birds. Special markers and 
signs will also be equipped at the transmission system to alerts birds.  
 
The route of the proposed Transmission Line ROW has been situated 100 - 200 meters 
from the center of NR 7 in order to minimize resettlements.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Resettlement Action Plan and Environment Management Plan (EMP) for the proposed 
transmission lines and the associated sub-stations have been prepared and reviewed by 
the Bank. Implementation of these plans will be monitored as covenants of the proposed 
Grant. EDC has some experience of implementing environmental and social impacts 
mitigation through implementation of previous IDA projects.  
 
As project sponsor, EDC will participate in the process of preparing and approving the 
RAP, reviewing compensation policies, conducting DMS activities, and delivering 
compensations in accordance with the approved RAP. The staff of EDC environment and 
social unit will be directly involved in the process, and they will be supported by Project 
Implementation Consultant in terms of the EMP and resettlement training and internal 
resettlement and EMP monitoring.  
 
In the process of land acquisition and resettlement, to ensure resettlement 
implementation is carried out smoothly and in compliance with the approved RAP, EDC 
will employ an external monitoring and evaluation team to carry out independent 
monitoring and evaluation in accordance with the RAP and EMP.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Continued from the site survey in February 2006 and during the site survey in September 
2010, the study team conducted interviews and consultations with villagers, head of 
villages,  
 
and heads of communes in Ou Svay, Samaki, Sdau, Kamphun communes from the 
Laotian Border to Stung Treng in reference to the Transmission Line Project. The study 
team directly  
Page  4
visited houses of heads of villages, heads of communes, and consulted the affected 
villagers at their home.  
 
During consultations, general information about the villages, specific information of 
affected lands, and villagers# attitudes and comments towards the project#s potential 
impacts were collected.  
 
To meet the disclosure requirement, the RAP and IEE/EMP in English and Khmer 
languages were disclosed locally  on March 7, 2011.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/14/2011 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/07/2011 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/23/2011 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/14/2011 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/07/2011 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/23/2011 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Page  5
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
Yes 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jie Tang 
04/27/2011 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Bunlong Leng 
04/25/2011 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Jun Zeng 
04/25/2011 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex 
05/02/2011 
Comments:   
Page  6
