Report No. PID8625
Project Name                     Niger-Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion (@+)
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Agro-Industry & Marketing
Project ID                       NEPE58730
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF NIGER (GON)
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Cellule Technique de Reflexion, Projet
Promotion des Exportations
Agro-pastorales, Ministere de Developpement
Rural, Niamey, Republique du
Niger
Contact Person: M. Abba Malam Boukar,
coordinator. M. Allachi Boukar,
consultant
Tel: 223-736256
Email: aboukar@hotmail.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 17, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 1, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Key structural and institutional features of the sectorThe countries of
the Sahel are among the poorest in the world, and by most measures Niger
is the poorest of these. Moreover, its economic performance has been
declining, with current per capita GNP less than half of what it was two
decades ago. Four out of five Nigeriens live in rural areas, and two
thirds of these live in absolute poverty. The livelihoods and prospects
for rural households are tightly bound to agriculture, which provides the
vast majority of employment, food, and income. Of the national actively
employed population, 84 percent of men and 97 percent of women are
involved in growing crops or raising livestock. Stagnant agricultural
growth and a fast-growing population has meant an annual decline in per
capita agricultural GDP by about two percent over the last twenty years,
and an alarming increase in the number of households lacking food
security.The staple rainfed crops -- millet and sorghum -- occupy
four-fifths of the cultivated area, and the rural poor spend over 40
percent of their income on cereals. However, unlike other Sahelian
countries which have experienced productivity gains in cereals, Nigerien
yields are much lower than regional averages and declining, and show
little potential for increasing farm incomes. While significant increases
in cereal yields would have a widespread effect of reducing poverty and
food insecurity, there is little evidence that this will happen.However,
there are several crops in which Niger appears to have comparative
advantage. This is suggested by Domestic Resource Cost estimates and by
trade growth in the regional markets. Niger is one of the leading



producers of niebe (cowpeas) and onions in Africa. Other examples are
souchet (ground peas), gum arabic, peppers, garlic, and sesame. Although
only one percent of agricultural land is irrigated, this is where much of
the potential for high-value crops lies, particularly with respect to
horticulture, since irrigated yields largely avoid the frequent occurrence
of drought. IDA and most other donors are active in building capacity in
irrigated agriculture.After crop production, the livestock sector is the
second most important economic activity for the poor, as well as the
dominant form of savings. Much of the country is suitable only for
pastoralism, and Niger has large comparative advantage in the production
of cattle, sheep, goats, and camels. While the arid environment keeps
most diseases at bay, weather fluctuations and water scarcity are constant
threats to the livestock population. Despite these risks, there is scope
for improved husbandry and marketing of livestock. Some believe that a
large reserve of unexploited pasture exists with potential, theoretically,
for 6.3 million head of cattle (there are currently about 4.5 million).
However, data on livestock production and marketing are very poor. Table
1. Value of exports ($000) by product and destination (1998)LivestockHides
& SkinsOnionsNiebeSouchetNigeria$24,607     89W$698    82W$1,254
27W$3,268   91-$1,041   1009C¶te d'Ivoire$99     .5W-$1,914   41-$15
1--B6nin$2,083    8W$14    2W$208   4W--Burkina Faso$76    .3W$10  1-$157
3W--Ghana$75    .3W-$1,123   24W$13   .4W-Togo$23    .1--$56   lW$257
7T-Total$26,963     98W$772   85W$4,712  100W$3,553    99W$1,041  1009A
total exportsl5.0 t0.4 t2.6 t2.0 t0.6 'The principal market for most
products is Nigeria which, with 120 million people, has a population 12
times the size of Niger's. During Nigeria's economic boom in the 1970's,
Niger was able to export large quantities of agro-pastoral products, a
pattern that changed in the recession that followed. Political and
economic stability in Nigeria offers hope for increased demand. The
coastal countries of Togo, Benin, Ghana, and C¶te d'Ivoire constitute a
growing market of more than 45 million inhabitants. Table 1 gives
summarizes Niger's export position with respect to five important
products, and reveals the following. First, that livestock products
account for three-quarters of the sector's exports. Second, that the vast
majority of demand for agro-pastoral products is from nearby countries,
with Nigeria dominating all but the market for onions. Third, that even
the most important agro-pastoral commodities account for only one fifth of
all export. Most of export earnings are derived uranium, from which the
poor do not directly benefit. However, a downward trend in uranium prices
and production underscore the increasing importance of agricultural
exports. Aside from the many problems related to production in an arid
environment, marketing is a major constraint with respect to export growth
in Niger. Recent fieldwork, carried out as part of this project's
preparation, found that ignorance of prices and selling opportunities
placed farmers at the mercy of undependable and often untrustworthy
middlemen. Output marketing is largely informal. The nature of the
informal market means that operators which know, supply, and influence
markets are rare. Producers rarely know the destination of their products,
and therefore respond poorly to the needs of foreign consumers.
Stakeholders are poorly integrated within commodity systems. Because
exporters are unorganized, products are marketed without quality
standards, or identification of origin. While there are some organized
producer organizations (such as cooperatives) there are virtually no
organizations or mechanisms for marketing agricultural products in Niger,
whether they be producer collectives, NGOs, or state-managed
-2 -



organizations.In addition, Niger is relatively isolated from other markets
by poor marketing infrastructure. The country is land-locked, with no rail
system. While the network of main roads is not unusually small compared to
its neighbors, the rural network is much smaller, particularly when
compared to rural population or arable land. This has important
implications for farmers' timely access to markets, as well as the ability
of extension agents and input suppliers to reach clients. Transport
problems and lack of storage facilities are reflected in wide seasonal
price fluctuations and heavy post-harvest losses. Rural roads are
especially important in the wake of liberalization for stimulating
competition, improving information flows, and reducing marketing costs.
Air transport is technically possible, but infrequent and not
cost-effective. In the past, Niger exported horticultural products to
Europe, principally green beans, but these disappeared because of
difficulties with air transport.Finally, access to financing is a major
constraint to development of the export sector. There are no rural
development banks for credit, and private commercial banks are generally
not interested in supplying credit for agriculture, particularly for
periods of more than a year, given that droughts create large covariant
risks. Most producers and exporters have limited capital and no
collateral. Because they are not organized, they are unable to pool
resources to acquire bank loans and make investments for collective
benefit.Government strategy in the agro-pastoral export sectorSince the
1980s, the Government of Niger (GON) has embarked on stabilization and
structural adjustment reforms in addition to agricultural sector and
institutional reforms, many of which, it was hoped, would increase
exports. These hopes did not materialize until the boost given by the 1994
devaluation, when several products from Niger quickly became competitive
on regional markets. External trade restrictions were reduced and
simplified to a tax of five percent of the f.o.b. value, which declined to
one percent as of January 1, 2000 The only non-tariff barrier is the
periodic quantiative restriction on the exports of cereals to promote food
security during times of drought. Public monopolies in agriculture have
largely disappeared. The state thus intervenes very little in agricultural
commodity markets except to replenish cereals stocks managed by the
national cereals board. Marketing and pricing of agricultural products and
inputs have been liberalized and public subsidies of farm inputs and
equipment have been eliminated. Livestock vaccination campaigns now
operate on a partial cost recovery basis, marketing of veterinary inputs
has been liberalized, and privatization of veterinary services has been
initiated. Agricultural export development is a key element of government
economic policy, which gives absolute priority to rural development, and
recognizes the key role played by the private sector. The Government aims
to improve the efficiency and equity of public resources in line with its
macroeconomic framework and development priorities, including promotion of
private sector, improved natural resource management, and organization of
rural producers to actively participate in development activities and
policy definition. The process of achieving this would entail coming to a
clear definition of the roles and functions of stakeholders, a detailed
look at public expenditures and institutions in the sector, and, from the
results of the above, institutional reorganization and reform of the key
ministerial departments to match their new roles and facilitate private
sector growth. The 1999 document "Agricultural Growth and Rural Poverty
Alleviation Strategy", listed five areas targetted for improved policy and
reforms: natural resource management, including water resources;
- 3 -



intensification of production and diversification, including livestock
development; rural finance; poverty alleviation and food security;, and
participatorty rural development, including decentralizing and empowering
farmers' organizations and rural communities. The project proposed in this
document is designed to incorporate and further the aims of this strategy
document.In terms of administrative structure and operations, public
services affecting the rural population continue to be provided from
Niamey. A multitude of ministries and public agencies govern the rural
sector. Agro-pastoral export promotion, to illustrate, requires dealing
with the Ministries of Rural Development, Animal Resources, Commerce,
Finance, Planning, and Small Entreprises. There is little coherence in the
design and implementation of projects, and most operations, even in the
same subsector, do not coordinate approaches or are prepared and
implemented without taking account of the priority public investment
program. Incentives for public servants are poor, since wages are
frequently delayed or skipped entirely. Almost three quarters of
recurrent expenditure is devoted to personnel salaries and allowances,
with much of the remainder to utility costs, leaving very little for
recurrent outlays. In addition, a large share of the investment budget
finances the recurrent costs of government agencies rather than services
for farmers. Execution rates for the sectoral investment are scarcely
fifty percent, due to poor utilization of existing manpower resources and
lack of counterpart funds. Disbursement and procurement procedures are
cumbersome and slow. There is no coherent system for monitoring progress
and evaluating impact of sector programs and projects. In summary, public
interventions in the agricultural sector continue to be ineffective,
centralized, uncoordinated, and underfunded.
2. Objectives
Export promotion is concerned with helping firms, entrepreneurs, and
producers achieve international competitiveness by supporting a strategic
and systematic approach to export marketing. The Agro-pastoral Export
Promotion Project (APEPP) aims to boost Niger's agricultural and livestock
exports by giving private sector enterprises and producers the tools for
increased production and profitability. The project will build technical,
organizational, and institutional capacity in businesses, professional
organizations, and producer groups so that they may take advantage of
opportunities in regional and international markets. The project will also
include business counseling, training, and representational assistance, as
well as applied market and technological research, trade fair
opportunities, and assistance in acquiring financing and in building
savings and credit associations for producer groups. Matching grants will
be made available to assocations of producers and exporters on a
demand-driven basis.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support is valuable in two ways. First, despite the interest
expressed by Government and the export sector, no donors are active in
this way. There are several donors active in the production of export
crops, but few are explicitly involved in post-farm activities and market
development. Second, no current projects in Niger appear to approach
export marketing on a national basis. Third, the Bank has several similar
operations in the sub-region and elsewhere, from which Niger may draw
lessons. The project sponsored trips by project management to Guinea,
Senegal, and C¶te d'Ivoire for this reason.
- 4-



4. Description
a) Trade Promotion and Information ServicesOutput: At the end of this
project, producers, exporters, and importers of Niger's agro-pastoral
products will have a better knowledge of market opportunities and are
provided with quality information and services with which to take
advantage of these opportunities. This component is aimed at addressing
the poor quality, quantity, and availability of data and information on
production, prices, exports, and other market conditions. It will contain
a cluster of activities including product and market identification and
development, trade information services, specialized support services on
procedures, product quality and packaging, applied research, promotional
activities abroad, and a project web site.b) Institutional Support to
Producer and Exporter OrganizationsOutput: At the end of this project,
existing organizations of producers and exporters of Niger's high-value
crops and livestock products will be strengthened and new organizations
created.This component is aimed at organizing producers and exporters and
at improving the ability of stakeholders to have a voice in the direction
of the sector. It will also encourage the formation of savings and credit
services if so desired by the organizations. It will provide a variety of
support to existing and potential organizations, including legal advice,
internal organization, financial and administrative management. Support
will be provided through project specialists, consultants, seminars, and
other training fora.c) Export Promotion Grant Facility Output: At the end
of this project, organizations of producers and exporters address
collective investment needs through the matching grant facility.This
component is aimed at addressing the lack of financing in the sector, and
in creating the incentive to organize. It is a demand-driven matching
grant facility that is made available to the organizations assisted or
formed in the second component. Organizations will be actively encouraged
and assisted in preparing proposals based on the needs of their members.
These proposals will be initially screened by the project's implementation
unit, or Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP), and in some cases a consultant
will be hired to determine technical and economic feasibility. Decisions
on the proposals will made by the Steering Committee. Based on prior
performance, subsequent proposals may be made, although the organizations
would have to assume a larger burden of the cost.d) Project Management
Output: The project implementation unit operates on schedule, within
budget, and is focussed on results.Project management will be carried out
by qualified professionals, recruited competitively, and experienced in
agricultural export and farmer organization. They will operate according
to carefully prepared performance goals and expectations. Monitoring and
evaluation will be a critical role of the management team, and will
include assessments of matching grant investments and environmental
monitoring.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT 0.7
IDA 10.35
BENEFICIARIES 1
Total Project Cost 12.05
6. Implementation
A detailed draft implementation manual is available and was discussed
during negotiations. It is currently under review for finalization by
- 5-



Government. A summary of the implementation arrangements is presented
below:Project financial managementA project implementation unit, or Unite
de Gestion du Projet (UGP), staffed with qualified professional that are
recruited on a competitive basis, would be in charge of the day-to-day
management of the project activities. In addition to the Project
Coordinator, the unit technical staff would include an Administrative and
Financial Management Specialist (AFMS), an AFMS assistant, a Monitoring
and Evaluation specialist, a Financial Comptroller, and support personnel
(see section E 4.1).Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
arrangementsThe UGP will be established for the execution and
implementation of the Project activities. The UGP will be responsible for
project financial management including the preparation and production of
the annual financial statements, in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting principles, as well as making arrangements for their
certification by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The UGP will also monitor all disbursements
under the projects and ensure that they are made in conformity with IDA
requirements. During pre-appraisal, the key areas of the project financial
management were reviewed in compliance with the IDA-established financial
management system assessment guidelines to ensure agreement with Bank
procedures. It was agreed that a computerized financial management system
including the accounting, budgetary, financial, reporting and internal
control systems) will be established in the UGP by a reputable
consultant/consulting firm and it would be operational at the outset of
project implementation. The Manual of budgetary financial and accounting
procedures is already elaborated. The design of the financial management
system will be based on the reporting requirements of the Bank's new Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) or PMR-based disbursement method.
The UGP will be adequately staffed by competent and experienced
professionals, including an AFMS and assistant AFMS. The financial
management system will allow for the proper recording of all
project-related transactions as well as timely monitoring of expenditures
per category, per executing agencies, and components. The financial
reporting will evolve from the traditional basic set of financial
statements during the first 18 months of the project implementation to the
PMR-based method. The PMR-based reporting will start after the Mid-Term
Review and continue till the end of project implementation.The records and
accounts of all the components of the project would be audited annually by
an independent auditor. Regarding the matching grant, the audit firm will
review the performance of random beneficiaries, and provide a specific
opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency of the lending and
distribution procedures. In addition to the audit opinion on the
financial statements, the auditor will be required to express separate
opinions on the SOEs and the management and utilization of the special
account. Finally, the auditor will issue a management report with
practical recommendations for improving the project internal control
system. The establishment within the UGP of a sound financial management
system acceptable to IDA and the recruitment of the project auditors are
conditions of effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
The intention of this project is to provide a catalyst for building
capacity and developing a entrepreneurial mentality in the export sector
in Niger. If successful, the project would have a lasting effect from the
partnerships built during the project. Also, it is expected that the
- 6 -



improvements in quality, knowledge of markets and procedures, and
technological innovations developed would last well beyond the life of the
project.At the end of the project, the role of the UGP should pass to
another structure. This could be the Chamber of Commerce, or the Chamber
of Agriculture (which now only exists on paper). Alternatively, the
project will explore the possibility of a federation of organizations.
This is the model used in the Pilot Private Irrigation Project, which is
managed the Agence Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (ANPIP).
This future agency will not likely be able to command a substantial budget
to continue to offer matching grants. However, if the grant component is
successful in creating the recognition that collective action is
effective, and if the institution support component is successful in
building capacity in self-financing, then associations may be able to
finance themselves. This possibility will investigated at the Mid-Term
Review, 2.5 years into the implementation of the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Much of the completed project work in Niger's agricultural sector has been
disappointing. Project Dosso (Cr.0967-NIR) and Project Maradi II
(Cr.1026-NIR), which closed in the mid-1980s, and the Livestock Project
(Cr. 0885-NIR), which closed in 1991, were aimed at increasing production,
encouraging farmer participation, and building capacity at the local
level. These projects had serious implementation and disbursement problems
and generally failed to improve productivity and empower farmers. Projects
which have recently closed in 1998 include the Agricultural Services
Support Project (Cr.2355-NIR), which aimed at strengthening agricultural,
livestock and environment protection extension to farmers with a view to
increase agricultural production and sustain growth of farmers' incomes.
The National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.2122-NIR) attempted to
improve national planning and implementation capacity in agricultural
research. This included on-farm adaptive research, multiplication and
distribution of improved seeds, and increased focus on soil and water
management technologies. The Small Rural Operations Project (Cr.1890-NIR)
was a pilot undertaken in the context of field-level developmental
activities, such as bottomland development, small irrigated schemes, fruit
tree nurseries, soil conservation, and water harvesting. ICR ratings for
the research and extension projects were unsatisfactory for reason
explained below. The Small Rural Operations Project had a good reputation
for impact on the ground and for achieving decentralized financial
mechanisms, although it was administratively quite expensive compared to
beneficiaries reached.Performance of the closed projects ranged from
highly unsatisfactory to limited success at best. However, they have
produced valuable lessons to consider in planning future work in Niger:
Sustainability of operations remains a key yet unresolved issue. This is
hindered by the project mentality of most government officials and even
farmers, whereby each project is expected to be followed by
another.Government has no clear framework, action plan, or time path for
decentralizing services or getting beneficiaries to take charge of
activities. While the government's long-term objective is desengagement,
this is not reflected either in the structure of the administrative
services or in terms of how these services deal with farmers or the civil
society. Consistency in management, both from the Bank and borrower side,
is critical but often lacking. One project suffered from four Bank
managers and eight Borrower managers over the life of the project.
Monitoring and evaluation systems have been extremely poor or
- 7 -



non-existent. It is essential to define and phase project objectives by
stating clearly at appraisal the objectives of the project and related
performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and be
allocated timely and adequate resources for operation and
training.Decentralized financial management at the local community level
is central to successful implementation of bottom-up approaches to
development and for promoting a culture of financial discipline in
managing community funds.Demonstrated ownership and empowerment are key to
effective participation of farmers in small rural development operations.
Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk
management promotes financial sustainability. Simplified operating
procedures, legal protection, and clarity with respect to benefits of the
established financial mechanisms are central to establishing ownership and
credibility of such mechanisms.Although public administration can be an
effective catalyst in fostering private entrepreneurial development and
participatory grassroots income-generating initiatives, it is generally
less effective than a private self-interested association of the
beneficiaries. Based on these lessons, the design of APEPP will (a) rely
heavily on private sector administration to ensure that beneficiaries set
priorities, (b) ensure extensive participation of stakeholders in project
implementation, (c) contain sufficient resources for an effective
monitoring and evaluation system, and (d) decentralize financial resources
to the producer and exporter level.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        EA was carried out in November 1999. In brief, the
environmental assessment found that the impact of the project on the
environment would be globally positive but would entail risks. However, it
recommended that the project have a person assigned and in charge of the
environmental and social safeguard measures of this project, including an
allocation for training. If the project is to be active in the fresh meat
filiOre, an audit of the abattoirs is recommended. Project activities
should also include active monitoring of the environmental impacts of the
project. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will include language to
this effect and be precise on the procedures which will be followed for
minimizing adverse environmental impacts, once identified.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel M. Sellen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 8 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 12, 2000.
-9-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
- 10 -



