Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20086-NIR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.7 MILLION
(US$10.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
AGRO-PASTORAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
May 4, 2000
Rural Development II
Country Department 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.16
US$ I = 630 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AFMS         Administrative and Financial Management Specialist
AN PIP       Agence Nig6rienne de Promotion de l'lrrigation Prve
APEPP        Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project
AWP          Annual Work Program
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCAIAN       Chambre de Commerce d'Agriculture, d'lndustrie, d'Artisanat du Niger
CGP          Cellule de Gestion du Projet
CIDA         Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CNCE         Centre Nigerien du Commerce Ext6rieur
CNUT         Conseil National des Utilisateurs des Transports
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Review
CSO          Comit6 de Suivi et Orientation
CTR          Cellule Technique de Rdflexion
CQ           Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification
DRF          Demandes de Retraits de Fonds
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
EA           Environmental Assessment
EEC          European Economic Community
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FCFA         Franc CFA (Currency issued by the Central Bank of West African Countries)
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GIS          Geographic Information System
GNP          Gross National Product
GON          Government of Niger
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IBRD         Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Agency
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
INRAN        Institut National de Recherche Agricole du Niger
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS          Least-Cost Selection
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Daniel Sellen



MCI          Ministere du Commerce et de l'industrie(Ministry of Commerce and Industry)
MDR          Ministere du D6veloppement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MREP         Ministdre des Finances et des Rdformes Economiques et de la Pdvatisation
MRE          Ministere de Resources en Eau (Ministry of Water Resources)
MP           Ministere du Plan(Ministry of Plan)
MRA          Ministere des Ressources Animales (Ministry of Animal Resources)
NGO          Non-Govemmental Organization
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NPV          Net Present Value
NRM          Natural Resource Management
PHRD         Special Fund for Policy and Human Resources Development
PIM          Project Implementation Manuel
PMR          Project Management Report
PPEAP        Projet de Promotion des Exportations des produits Agro-Pastoraux
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
QBS          Quality-Based Selection
QCBS         Quality Cost-Based Selecton
RAF          Responsable Administratif et Financier
SFB          Selection under a Fixed Budget
SNV          Social Net Value
SPR          Staff Project Report
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
UEMOA        Union Economique et Mon6taire Ouest Africaine
UNDP         United Nations Development Program






NIGER
AGRO-PASTORAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    8
3. Benefits and target population                                                   9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        12
2. Financial                                                                       13
3. Technical                                                                       13
4. Institutional                                                                   13
5. Environment                                                                     16
6. Social                                                                          17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  19
2. Critical risks                                                                  19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  20



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           20
2. Other                                                                             21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         22
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  33
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      41
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           52
Annex 11: Executive Summary of Environmental Assessment                                 54
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30781



NIGER
Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: May 4, 2000                                 Team Leader: Daniel M. Sellen
Country Manager/Director: Theodore Ahlers         Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P058730                               Sector(s): AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan          Z Credit        El Grant        El Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$10.35 million/SDR 7.7 million
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n/a                                    Service charge: 0.75%
PithXn-tml:        Sorce                      <L                          I7I7        -__._-:
GOVERNMENT                                                      0.00           0.00          0.00
IBRD
IDA                                                             9.69           0.66          10.35
BENEFICIARIES                                                   1.00           0.00           1.00
BORROWER                                                        0.67           0.03           0.70
Total:                                                         11.36           0.69          12.05
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF NIGER (GON)
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Address: Cellule Technique de Reflexion, Projet Promotion des Exportations Agro-pastorales, Ministere de
Developpement Rural, Niamey, Republique du Niger
Contact Person: M. Abba Malam Boukar, coordinator. M. Allachi Boukar, consultant
Tel: 223-736256                 Fax:                 Email: aboukar@hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY           200I                    20          zO          2005
Annual      1.9          1.9          2.3        2.3         2.0
Cumulative     1.9          3.8          6.1         8.4        10.4
Project implementation period: January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 11/01/2000  Expected closing date:  10/31/2005
OCS PAD Fo-m: Rev M.,dv 20D0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Producers and exporters are efficiently supplying the agro-pastoral export market, reacting to market
changes, and seizing opportunities.
Export promotion is concerned with helping firms, entrepreneurs, and producers achieve international
competitiveness by supporting a strategic and systematic approach to export marketing. The Agro-pastoral
Export Promotion Project (APEPP) aims to boost Niger's agricultural and livestock exports by giving
private sector enterprises and producers the tools for increased production and profitability. The project
will build technical, organizational, and institutional capacity in businesses, professional organizations, and
producer groups so that they may take advantage of opportunities in regional and international markets.
The project will also include business counseling, training, and representational assistance, as well as
applied market and technological research, trade fair opportunities, and assistance in acquiring financing
and in building savings and credit associations for producer groups. Matching grants will be made
available to assocations of producers and exporters on a demand-driven basis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   At least 80% of grant investments successfully meet market needs and collective needs of producers
and exporters.
At least 50% of external market trends recognized by project are taken into consideration by producers
and exporters in their decision-making process.
_   At least 20% reduction in marketing costs for project clients.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17114 NIR                Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/11/97
The project would support the CAS objectives of growth, private sector development, empowerment of
rural and professional organizations, increased farm incomes, and improvement of the population's
standard of living. In particular, this project is directly aimed at one of the three principal goals of Bank
assistance to Niger, i.e. "promotion of open economic policies and regional linkages to take advantage of
external growth opportunities."
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key structural and institutionalfeatures of the sector
The countries of the Sahel are among the poorest in the world, and by most measures Niger is the poorest
of these. Moreover, its economic performnance has been declining, with current per capita GNP less than
half of what it was two decades ago. Four out of five Nigeriens live in rural areas, and two thirds of these
live in absolute poverty. The livelihoods and prospects for rural households are tightly bound to agriculture,
which provides the vast majority of employment, food, and income. Of the national actively employed
population, 84 percent of men and 97 percent of women are involved in growing crops or raising livestock.
Stagnant agricultural growth and a fast-growing population has meant an annual decline in per capita
agricultural GDP by about two percent over the last twenty years, and an alarming increase in the number
of households lacking food security.
-2-



The staple rainfed crops -- millet and sorghum -- occupy four-fifths of the cultivated area, and the rural
poor spend over 40 percent of their income on cereals. However, unlike other Sahelian countries which
have experienced productivity gains in cereals, Nigerien yields are much lower than regional averages and
declining, and show little potential for increasing farm incomes. While significant increases in cereal yields
would have a widespread effect of reducing poverty and food insecurity, there is little evidence that this will
happen.
However, there are several crops in which Niger appears to have comparative advantage. This is suggested
by Domestic Resource Cost estimates and by trade growth in the regional markets. Niger is one of the
leading producers of niebe (cowpeas) and onions in Africa. Other examples are souchet (ground peas),
gum arabic, peppers, garlic, and sesame. Although only one percent of agricultural land is irrigated, this is
where much of the potential for high-value crops lies, particularly with respect to horticulture, since
irrigated yields largely avoid the frequent occurrence of drought. IDA and most other donors are active in
building capacity in irrigated agriculture.
After crop production, the livestock sector is the second most important economic activity for the poor, as
well as the dominant form.of savings. Much of the country is suitable only for pastoralism, and Niger has
large comparative advantage in the production of cattle, sheep, goats, and camels. While the arid
environment keeps most diseases at bay, weather fluctuations and water scarcity are constant threats to the
livestock population. Despite these risks, there is scope for improved husbandry and marketing of livestock.
Some believe that a large reserve of unexploited pasture exists with potential, theoretically, for 6.3 million
head of cattle (there are currently about 4.5 million). However, data on livestock production and marketing
are very poor.
Table 1. Value of exports ($000) by product and destination (1998)
Livestock     Hides & Skins       Onions           Niebe           Souchet
Nigeria           $24,607 89%       $698 82%        $1,254 27%       $3,268 91%      $1,041 100%
Cte d'lvoire        $99 .5%                         $1,914 41%        $15 1%
Benin              $2,083 8%         $14 2%          $208 4%             -
Burkina Faso        $76 .3%          $10 1%          $157 3%             -
Ghana               $75 .3%                         $1,123 24%        $13 .4%
Togo                $23 .1%              °            $56 1 %         $257 7%
|Total             $26,963 98%       $772 85%        $4,712 100%     $3,553 99%       $1,041 100%
% total exports      15.0 %           0.4%             2.6 %            2.0%            0.6
The principal market for most products is Nigeria which, with 120 million people, has a population 12
times the size of Niger's. During Nigeria's economic boom in the 1970's, Niger was able to export large
quantities of agro-pastoral products, a pattern that changed in the recession that followed. Political and
economic stability in Nigeria offers hope for increased demand. The coastal countries of Togo, Benin,
Ghana, and C6te d'Ivoire constitute a growing market of more than 45 million inhabitants. Table 1 gives
summarizes Niger's export position with respect to five important products, and reveals the following.
First, that livestock products account for three-quarters of the sector's exports. Second, that the vast
majority of demand for agro-pastoral products is from nearby countries, with Nigeria dominating all but
the market for onions. Third, that even the most important agro-pastoral commodities account for only one
fifth of all export. Most of export earnings are derived uranium, from which the poor do not directly
benefit. However, a downward trend in uranium prices and production underscore the increasing
importance of agricultural exports.
Aside from the many problems related to production in an arid environment, marketing is a major
constraint with respect to export growth in Niger. Recent fieldwork, carried out as part of this project's
preparation, found that ignorance of prices and selling opportunities placed farmers at the mercy of
- 3 -



undependable and often untrustworthy middlemen. Output marketing is largely informal: The nature of the
informal market means that operators which know, supply, and influence markets are rare. Producers
rarely know the destination of their products, and therefore respond poorly to the needs of foreign
consumers. Stakeholders are poorly integrated within commodity systems. Because exporters are
unorganized, products are marketed without quality standards, or identification of origin. While there are
some organized producer organizations (such as cooperatives) there are virtually no organizations or
mechanisms for marketing agricultural products in Niger, whether they be producer collectives, NGOs, or
state-managed organizations.
In addition, Niger is relatively isolated from other markets by poor marketing infrastructure. The country is
land-locked, with no rail system. While the network of main roads is not unusually small compared to its
neighbors, the rural network is much smaller, particularly when compared to rural population or arable
land. This has important implications for farmers' timely access to markets, as well as the ability of
extension agents and input suppliers to reach clients. Transport problems and lack of storage facilities are
reflected in wide seasonal price fluctuations and heavy post-harvest losses. Rural roads are especially
important in the wake of liberalization for stimulating competition, improving information flows, and
reducing marketing costs. Air transport is technically possible, but infrequent and not cost-effective. In the
past, Niger exported horticultural products to Europe, principally green beans, but these disappeared
because of difficulties with air transport.
Finally, access to financing is a major constraint to development of the export sector. There are no rural
development banks for credit, and private commercial banks are generally not interested in supplying credit
for agriculture, particularly for periods of more than a year, given that droughts create large covariant
risks. Most producers and exporters have limited capital and no collateral. Because they are not organized,
they are unable to pool resources to acquire bank loans and make investments for collective benefit.
Government strategy in the agro-pastoral export sector
Since the 1 980s, the Government of Niger (GON) has embarked on stabilization and structural adjustment
reforms in addition to agricultural sector and institutional reforms, many of which, it was hoped, would
increase exports. These hopes did not materialize until the boost given by the 1994 devaluation, when
several products from Niger quickly became competitive on regional markets. External trade restrictions
were reduced and simplified to a tax of five percent of the f.o.b. value, which declined to one percent as of
January 1, 2000 The only non-tariff barrier is the periodic quantiative restriction on the exports of cereals
to promote food security during times of drought. Public monopolies in agriculture have largely
disappeared. The state thus intervenes very little in agricultural commodity markets except to replenish
cereals stocks managed by the national cereals board. Marketing and pricing of agricultural products and
inputs have been liberalized and public subsidies of farm inputs and equipment have been eliminated.
Livestock vaccination campaigns now operate on a partial cost recovery basis, marketing of veterinary
inputs has been liberalized, and privatization of veterinary services has been initiated.
Agricultural export development is a key element of government economic policy, which gives absolute
priority to rural development, and recognizes the key role played by the private sector. The Government
aims to improve the efficiency and equity of public resources in line with its macroeconomic framework
and development priorities, including promotion of private sector, improved natural resource management,
and organization of rural producers to actively participate in development activities and policy definition.
The process of achieving this would entail coming to a clear definition of the roles and functions of
stakeholders, a detailed look at public expenditures and institutions in the sector, and, from the results of
the above, institutional reorganization and reform of the key ministerial departments to match their new
- 4 -



roles and facilitate private sector growth. The 1999 document "Agricultural Growth and Rural Poverty
Alleviation Strategy", listed five areas targetted for improved policy and reforms: natural resource
management, including water resources; intensification of production and diversification, including
livestock development; rural finance; poverty alleviation and food security;, and participatorty rural
development, including decentralizing and empowering farmers' organizations and rural communities. The
project proposed in this document is designed to incorporate and further the aims of this strategy document.
In terms of administrative structure and operations, public services affecting the rural population continue
to be provided from Niamey. A multitude of ministries and public agencies govern the rural sector.
Agro-pastoral export promotion, to illustrate, requires dealing with the Ministries of Rural Development,
Animal Resources, Commerce, Finance, Planning, and Small Entreprises. There is little coherence in the
design and implementation of projects, and most operations, even in the same subsector, do not coordinate
approaches or are prepared and implemented without taking account of the priority public investment
program. Incentives for public servants are poor, since wages are frequently delayed or skipped entirely.
Almost three quarters of recurrent expenditure is devoted to personnel salaries and allowances, with much
of the remainder to utility costs, leaving very little for recurrent outlays. In addition, a large share of the
investment budget finances the recurrent costs of government agencies rather than services for farmers.
Execution rates for the sectoral investment are scarcely fifty percent, due to poor utilization of existing
manpower resources and lack of counterpart funds. Disbursement and procurement procedures are
cumbersome and slow. There is no coherent system for monitoring progress and evaluating impact of sector
programs and projects. In summary, public interventions in the agricultural sector continue to be
ineffective, centralized, uncoordinated, and underfunded.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The previous section has described the need to increase rural incomes, the relative stagnation of cereal
crops, the high potential for certain non-traditional exports, the dominance of Nigeria and the informal
sector, the inability of farmers to discover and respond to market opportunities, and the limitations of the
public sector to successfully tackle problems in agricultural and export promotion.
In this context, the APEPP plans to capitalize on these opportunities, while attempting to overcome certain
constraints. The project will target a subset of the priorities articulated by GON, namely (i) private sector
development and empowerment of farmers' and professional organizations, and (ii) intensification of
production and diversification, including livestock development. To achieve these goals, the following
strategic choices were made:
1.    Private sector vs. public sector intervention. The project will place emphasis on private sector
development rather than building capacity in central government and supporting public expenditure in the
sector. As explained above, the public sector has not been effective in agricultural production and
marketing, nor does it have the natural comparative advantage or incentives to do so. Indeed, GON is
starting to explore ways to promote private sector development and disengage from functions it has
traditionally claimed within its mandate. This does not mean that the public sector has no role to play in
export development and this project. On the contrary, GON will be closely involved in initiating the project,
acquiring project financing, and ensuring that the project follows certain principles and moves toward its
objectives.
2.     Choice of high-potential commodities: A second strategic choice concerns which commodities to
focus on with the project in terms of providing support for increasing exports (section C. I describes this
support). In selecting commodities with potential, the following criteria were used:
-5-



*   The commodities must be well suited to Sahelian agro-climatic conditions
*   Niger must be able to produce exportable surpluses
* Production techniques must already be known to Nigerien farmers
*   There must exist an international market for these products, which has already been tapped to some
extent.
*   The product demonstrates comparative advantage, at least with respect to the sub-region
*   The product demonstrates the ability to contribute to poverty reduction and income generation
Based on these criteria, the following crops will receive special attention in the project: niebe (cowpeas),
sesame, souchet (ground peas), onion, gum arabic, livestock, fresh and dried meat, and hides/skins.
However, the project will remain open to investigating potential for other products over the course of the
project if they are shown to satisfy these criteria. Possible candidates are garlic, peppers, neem (for organic
pesticides), tomatoes, cabbages, green beans, henna, and ground nuts.
3.     Export vs. domestic production: The project is primarily aimed at enhancing exports. However,
the bulk of most exportable products are in fact consumed within Niger, and share the production and
marketing infrastructure of the export system. Hence, the project will not attempt to draw a superficial line
between the two markets, and will instead promote production and marketing of any of the exportable
commodities mentioned above, regardless of where they are consumed.
4.     Farm vs. post-farm interventions: Thefiliere, or commodity system approach, considers the entire
set of activities within the production to consumption chain, and the linkages between them. This holistic
approach facilitates identification of bottlenecks throughout the system, and suggests ways of better
integrating the activities. A fourth strategic choice, therefore, was to balance interventions at the farm and
post-farm levels. In doing so, certain synergies are possible, such as passing on information on consumer
needs to producers and exporters for purposes of improving quality. Another reason for combining farm
and post-farm interventions is to spread benefits between the two groups, thus avoiding an imbalance in
market power. APEPP will therefore work with both producer and exporter organizations.
5.     Transport infrastructure. The discussion above highlighted road and air transport difficulties as
an obstacle to marketing of export commodities. Road maintenance and construction will require
substantial and complex financial and human resources, with few synergies with other project components.
Moreover, other donors (including IDA) are working in this sector. The project, however, may be in a good
position to influence a prioritization of road projects where critical transport bottlenecks are concerned.
Also, small investments aimed at overcoming specific road bottlenecks may be considered under the
matching grant component of this project. Airport infrastructure is a key element of many export promotion
projects. A preparation study completed has determined that, for most Nigerien commodities and most
destinations, use of air freight is uneconomic. However, these economic thresholds are now well
documented, and if particularly high-value products become available in sufficient quantities, there may be
cause to consider air freight in the future.
6.     Financial assistance: An important strategic choice concerns financial assistance mechanisms for
exporters and producers, given the lack of credit available in the commercial banking system. The project
considered several financial options. A three-pronged approach will be used. First, the project will provide
assistance to producers and exporters in approaching the commerical banking system, such as in filling out
applications and writing proposals. Second, the project will assist organizations in setting up and managing
their own savings and credit associations, which would be linked to existing licensed financial
intermediaries. Third, the project will provide matching grants to eligible organizations of producers and
- 6 -



exporters upon approval of an acceptable investment proposal that will confer benefits on a large
proportion of their membership (see Annex 2).
7.     Public goods vs. income-generating activities: Related to the question of financing assistance is
the choice of whether to limit project financing to public goods, such as trade information, standards, and
capacity-building, or whether to actively invest in productive activities that will increase incomes of
individuals or groups. APEPP will do both. Certain components will focus on reinforcing capacity within
producer and exporter organizations, information gathering and dissemination, and proactively exploring
new markets and marketing approaches. On the other hand, a matching grant facility will accept proposals
for income-generating activities from such organizations. These demand-driven proposals must meet strict
criteria to ensure that (a) formal sector financing is not available, (b) the benefits of the investment are
widespread, (c) the organization's contribution is in cash, (d) there are no adverse environmental
implications, (e) and that the activity does not directly compete with existing private investment.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
a)     Trade Promotion and Information Services
Output: At the end of this project, producers, exporters, and importers of Niger's agro-pastoral products
will have a better knowledge of market opportunities and are provided with quality information and
services with which to take advantage of these opportunities.
This component is aimed at addressing the poor quality, quantity, and availability of data and information
on production, prices, exports, and other market conditions. It will contain a cluster of activities including
product and market identification and development, trade information services, specialized support services
on procedures, product quality and packaging, applied research, promotional activities abroad, and a
project web site.
b)    Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter Organizations
Output: At the end of this project, existing organizations of producers and exporters of Niger's high-value
crops and livestock products will be strengthened and new organizations created.
This component is aimed at organizing producers and exporters and at improving the ability of stakeholders
to have a voice in the direction of the sector. It will also encourage the formation of savings and credit
services if so desired by the organizations. It will provide a variety of support to existing and potential
organizations, including legal advice, internal organization, financial and administrative management.
Support will be provided through project specialists, consultants, seminars, and other training fora.
c)     Export Promotion Grant Facility
Output: At the end of this project, organizations of producers and exporters address collective investment
needs through the matching grant facility.
This component is aimed at addressing the lack of financing in the sector, and in creating the incentive to
organize. It is a demand-driven matching grant facility that is made available to the organizations assisted
or formed in the second component. Organizations will be actively encouraged and assisted in preparing
proposals based on the needs of their members. These proposals will be initially screened by the project's
implementation unit, or Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP), and in some cases a consultant will be hired to
determine technical and economic feasibility. Decisions on the proposals will made by the Steering
Committee. Based on prior performance, subsequent proposals may be made, although the organizations
- 7 -



would have to assume a larger burden of the cost.
d)    Project Management
Output: The project implementation unit operates on schedule, within budget, and is focussed on results.
Project management will be carried out by qualified professionals, recruited competitively, and experienced
in agricultural export and farmer organization. They will operate according to carefully prepared
performance goals and expectations. Monitoring and evaluation will be a critical role of the management
team, and will include assessments of matching grant investments and environmental monitoring.
a) Trade Promotion and Information  Agro-Industry &     2.10      17.4       2.10      20.3
Services                           Marketing
b) Institutional Support to Producer    Institutional   1.30      10.8       1.30      12.6
and Exporter Organizations         Development
c) Export Promotion Grant Facility  Agro-Industry &     6.00      49.8       5.00      48.3
Marketing
d) Project Management                                   1.52       12.6      1.20      11.6
PPF                                                     0.50       4.1       0.50       4.8
Vehicles and equipment                                 0.25        2.1       0.25       2.4
Price contingencies                                     0.38       3.2       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                    12.05     100.0      10.35     100.0
Total Financing Required                    12.05      100.0     10.35      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Successful export promotion does not require a perfect policy regime or the most efficient transaction
environment, but it does require an environment in which project interventions have a good probability of
succeeding. As described above in section B.2, many of the public interventions in agricultural marketing
have been removed in the wake of liberalization. Preparation and appraisal missions were unable to identify
important areas in which policy and insitutional reforms should take place to further the goals of the
project. The 5 percent export tax which existed during preparation was reduced to 1 percent on January 1,
2000. The newly elected govemment greatly reduced commercial road blocks in February (from 27 to
down to 3 on the Maradi - Burkina Faso road, for example). Furthermore, the formalities demanded by the
Guichet Unique (the export licensing bureau) have been greatly simplified. There are likely to be
recommendations on policy and institutional reforms that arise future dialogue in the project. In particular,
the seminars that bring together the stakeholders in particularfilieres will be specifically designed to elicit
such recommendations.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The APEPP is intended to produce the following benefits. First, it will increase rural employment, farm
income, and farm profitability -- directly (through farm-level interventions), and indirectly (by increasing
exporters' demand for farm products). Second, it will increase export levels, improve Niger's balance of
trade, and generate foreign exchange. Third, it will improve the quality of selected agro-pastoral products,
thus gaining access to new markets and strengthening Niger's international comparative advantage. Fourth,
it will lead to increased levels of productive private investment in the agricultural sector. Fifth, it will make
possibilities for collective action that will capture benefits out of the reach of individuals.
Increases in productive capacity and marketing efficiency of the keyflieres will confer benefits on a large
number of people, particularly farmers, and further develop the private sector. The beneficiaries of the
project are producers of export products, agricultural processors, exporters, agricultural cooperatives,
producer organizations, and professional organizations in the export sector. Technical assistance services
would rely almost entirely on the domestic private sector. The only exceptions would be the parastatal
national agricultural research centre (INRAN) and the University, which may be implicated when technical,
product-specific solutions are required.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A detailed draft implementation manual is available and was discussed during negotiations. It is currently
under review for finalization by Government. A summary of the implementation arrangements is presented
below:
Projectfinancial management
A project implementation unit, or Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP), staffed with qualified professional
that are recruited on a competitive basis, would be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project
activities. In addition to the Project Coordinator, the unit technical staff would include an Administrative
and Financial Management Specialist (AFMS), an AFMS assistant, a Monitoring and Evaluation
specialist, a Financial Comptroller, and support personnel (see section E 4.1).
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements
The UGP will be established for the execution and implementation of the Project activities. The UGP will
be responsible for project financial management including the preparation and production of the annual
financial statements, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles, as well as making
arrangements for their certification by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The UGP will also monitor all disbursements under the projects and ensure that they are
made in conformity with IDA requirements. During pre-appraisal, the key areas of the project financial
management were reviewed in compliance with the IDA-established financial management system
assessment guidelines to ensure agreement with Bank procedures. It was agreed that a computerized
financial management system including the accounting, budgetary, financial, reporting and internal control
systems) will be established in the UGP by a reputable consultant/consulting firm and it would be
operational at the outset of project implementation. The Manual of budgetary financial and accounting
procedures is already elaborated. The design of the financial management system will be based on the
reporting requirements of the Bank's new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) or PMR-based
disbursement method. The UGP will be adequately staffed by competent and experienced professionals,
including an AFMS and assistant AFMS. The financial management system will allow for the proper
recording of all project-related transactions as well as timely monitoring of expenditures per category, per
-9-



executing agencies, and components. The financial reporting will evolve from the traditional basic set of
financial statements during the first 18 months of the project implementation to the PMR-based method.
The PMR-based reporting will start after the Mid-Term Review and continue till the end of project
implementation.
The records and accounts of all the components of the project would be audited annually by an independent
auditor. Regarding the matching grant, the audit firm will review the performance of random beneficiaries,
and provide a specific opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency of the lending and distribution
procedures. In addition to the audit opinion on the financial statements, the auditor will be required to
express separate opinions on the SOEs and the management and utilization of the special account. Finally,
the auditor will issue a management report with practical recommendations for improving the project
internal control system. The establishment within the UGP of a sound financial management system
acceptable to IDA and the recruitment of the project auditors are conditions of effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project altematives were discussed together with strategic choices in Section B.3.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Agriculture, Infrastructure       Small Rural Operations Project    S             S
Cr. 1890 - closed
Agricultural Research             National Agricultural Research    S             U
Project Cr. 2122 - closed
Agricultural Extension            Agricultural Services Project     S             U
Cr. 2355 - closed
Agriculture, Environment          Natural Resource Management       S             S
Project Cr. 1967 - active
Agriculture, Irrigation           Pilot Private Irrigation Project  S             S
Cr. 2707 - active
Other development agencies
IFAD                              Projet Aguie, Maradi (souchet,
sesame)
IFAD                              Projet Special FIDA, mainly in
Tillaberi (horticulture)
EEC                               Basse Vall6e Tarka, Tahoua,
Zinder (onion, cowpea)
EEC                               PROSOPAS, Tahoua
(livestock)
CIDA                              MECRAF, Niamey (garlic)
- 1 0 -



ADB                                Projet de Developpement
Regional, Diffa (green peppers)
ADB                                Projet de Developpement Rural,
Dosso (livestock, cowpeas)
SNV                                PROMEX, Tahoua, Tillaberi
(horticulture, sesame)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Leverage with otherprojects
APEPP will make a special effort to work together with other IDA and donor financed projects. Eligible
organizations of producers linked to these projects will have access to the full range of services offered by
APEPP. For example, organizations of small, private irrigators under the Pilot Private Irrigation Project
are currently assisted in productive matters, but may face marketing constraints which may be addressed by
APEPP. Several donors (EU, CIDA, SNV, FAO, AFD, IFAD) have already been contacted during
preparation and appraisal to establish linkages, and this communication will continue during project
implementation.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Much of the completed project work in Niger's agricultural sector has been disappointing. Project Dosso
(Cr.0967-NIR) and Project Maradi II (Cr. 1026-NIR), which closed in the mid-1980s, and the Livestock
Project (Cr. 0885-NIR), which closed in 1991, were aimed at increasing production, encouraging farmer
participation, and building capacity at the local level. These projects had serious implementation and
disbursement problems and generally failed to improve productivity and empower farmers. Projects which
have recently closed in 1998 include the Agricultural Services Support Project (Cr.2355-NIR), which
aimed at strengthening agricultural, livestock and environment protection extension to farmers with a view
to increase agricultural production and sustain growth of farmers' incomes. The National Agricultural
Research Project (Cr.2122-NIR) attempted to improve national planning and implementation capacity in
agricultural research. This included on-farm adaptive research, multiplication and distribution of improved
seeds, and increased focus on soil and water management technologies. The Small Rural Operations
Project (Cr. 1 890-NIR) was a pilot undertaken in the context of field-level developmental activities, such as
bottomland development, small irrigated schemes, fruit tree nurseries, soil conservation, and water
harvesting. ICR ratings for the research and extension projects were unsatisfactory for reason explained
below. The Small Rural Operations Project had a good reputation for impact on the ground and for
achieving decentralized financial mechanisms, although it was administratively quite expensive compared
to beneficiaries reached.
Performance of the closed projects ranged from highly unsatisfactory to limited success at best. However,
they have produced valuable lessons to consider in planning future work in Niger:
*   Sustainability of operations remains a key yet unresolved issue. This is hindered by the project
mentality of most govemment officials and even farners, whereby each project is expected to be
followed by another.
*   Govemment has no clear framework, action plan, or time path for decentralizing services or getting
beneficiaries to take charge of activities. While the govemment's long-term objective is desengagement,
this is not reflected either in the structure of the administrative services or in terms of how these
services deal with farmers or the civil society.
- 11 -



*   Consistency in management, both from the Bank and borrower side, is critical but often lacking. One
project suffered from four Bank managers and eight Borrower managers over the life of the project.
* Monitoring and evaluation systems have been extremely poor or non-existent. It is essential to define
and phase project objectives by stating clearly at appraisal the objectives of the project and related
performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and be allocated timely and adequate
resources for operation and training.
*   Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central to successful
implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and for promoting a culture of financial
discipline in managing community funds.
* Demonstrated ownership and empowerment are key to effective participation of farmers in small
rural development operations. Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk
management promotes financial sustainability. Simplified operating procedures, legal protection, and
clarity with respect to benefits of the established financial mechanisms are central to establishing
ownership and credibility of such mechanisms.
* Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private entrepreneurial
development and participatory grassroots income-generating initiatives, it is generally less effective
than a private self-interested association of the beneficiaries.
Based on these lessons, the design of APEPP will (a) rely heavily on private sector administration to ensure
that beneficiaries set priorities, (b) ensure extensive participation of stakeholders in project implementation,
(c) contain sufficient resources for an effective monitoring and evaluation system, and (d) decentralize
financial resources to the producer and exporter level.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the identification mission, there was unequivocal confirmation that the objectives of diversification
and promotion of agro-pastoral export products were a top priority of the Government as reflected in their
economic recovery program. Producers and exporters welcomed the participatory process initiated during
the mission that allowed them to be informed on and be associated with all mission activities. They
reaffirmed their determination, with project support, to regain lost market shares by Niger in horticultural
exports and to invest in high potential crops. The emphasis on the development of regional and international
markets were also reaffirmed as well as the need to have such a project executed by private professionals of
the trade. Broad-based and top-level support for the project was also expressed during the Validation
Seminar held in Maradi on January 24 - 28, 2000.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support is valuable in two ways. First, despite the interest expressed by Government and the export
sector, no donors are active in this way. As seen in the table in D.2, there are several donors active in the
production of export crops, but few are explicitly involved in post-farm activities and market development.
Second, no current projects in Niger appear to approach export marketing on a national basis. Third, the
Bank has several similar operations in the sub-region and elsewhere, from which Niger may draw lessons.
The project sponsored trips by project management to Guinea, Senegal, and C8te d'Ivoire for this reason.
The director of the project in Cote d'Ivoire was active in the preparation of this project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
- 12 -



* Cost benefit    NPV=US$24.9 million; ERR = 48 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Standard cost-benefit analysis was undertaken by measuring the change in producer surplus (of both
producers and Nigerien traders and processors) under a scenario where production and exports increase as
a result of project interventions. Details and assumptions are presented in Annex 4.
It should be noted that economic analysis was undertaken using data that are of highly questionable
accuracy, given the informal structure of Niger's export marketing. For this reason, the economic measures
should be viewed with some skepticism. The project will be directly aimed at improving the quality of these
data in future.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 22.7 million; FRR = 41 % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis was based upon using observed prices rather than shadow prices, thus taking into
account taxes, duties, and contingencies (see Annex 4).
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal impact will be positive from taxes paid to government from increased export revenues. Assuming
that the current tax rate of one percent will be maintained, the total present value of increased export tax
revenues (discounted at 12 percent over 15 years) is US$2.3 million.
3. Technical:
Technical issues will arise when exploring the potential for new products and techniques for adding value
to new or non-traditional exports. These must abide by agronomic, health, and quality standards. Demand
for these new products and techniques will be articulated from the producer and exporter organizations that
the project will seek to assist. As such, this demand is not precisely know ex ante.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project implemention unit, or Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP), would execute the project on behalf
of the Ministry of Rural Development. The responsibilities of UGP staff with respect to the project would
be defined clearly in the implementation manual in order to avoid interference by the latter with UGP's
day-to-day management functions. In implementing the project components, the UGP would make
maximum use of domestic capacity in specialized consulting services through sub-contracting.
The steering committee, or Comite de Suivi et Orientation (CSO), will oversee the activities of the UGP,
but will not participate in the day-to-day running of the project. It will meet on a quarterly basis. The
principal functions of the CSO will be:
* to compare the project's progress with respect to budgets and project spending
* to validate the preliminary budget
* to make final decisions on the acceptability of proposals from organizations for matching grants.
The CSO will have membership shared between government and private sector, and will be chaired by the
-13 -



representative of the Ministry of Rural Development. The vice-chair will be the representative of the
Chamber of Commerce. Up to 8 representatives of commodity-based producer and exporter organizations
(project clients) will have representation on the CSO. Government representatives will include one
representative from each of the following Ministries:
1. Ministry of Planning (MP)
2. Ministry of Rural Development (MRD)
3. Ministry of Animal Resources (MAR)
4. Ministry of Commerce (MC)
5. Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)
6. Ministry of Finance (MF)
4.2 Project management:
The Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) will be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project. The
principal functions of the UGP will be:
*  to coordinate individual project activities
*   when necessary, to assist in preparing and supervising the execution of contracts between the project,
the beneficiaries and the specialized consulting services
-  to prepare the project's annual work program, annual budgets, accounts and financial statements,
progress reports, disbursements applications, and procurement plans and execution.
*   to report to Ministries, donors, and other stakeholders on the progress of the project
*  to screen and evaluate matching grant proposals and pass eligible proposals on to the CSO for
approval.
The UGP will carry out the functions of the first two components (Trade Promotion, Institutional Support),
and will actively solicit and screen proposals for matching grants under the third component. It will also
monitor and evaluate the entire project.
The UGP will be composed of qualified consultants recruited for their competence and their professional
experience in the domain of agro-pastoral exports and in the organization of producer groups. If
government officials are recruited in this process, they would need to resign. The contracts for these
personnel will be signed for a period of one year, which may be renewed on the basis of satisfactory
performance (see section GI for a listing of these personnel). There will be two satellite offices of the
project in Maradi and Tahoua, which will probably be accomodated within and paying rent to the local
Chambers of Commerce. These will each be supported by a secretary. The function of these satellites is to
bring the project closer to the beneficiaries and thereby provide a way to receive and disseminate
information.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
a) Capacity Assessment of UGP for Financial Management and PMR-Based Disbursement
A Project Implementing Unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet) staffed with competent and experienced staff,
including a Project Coordinator (PC), a Monitoring, and Evaluation Specialist (MES), an Administrative and
- 14 -



Financial Management Specialist (AFMS), and a Procurement Specialist, plus support staff will be recruited
through a competitive and transparent process in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. Adequate provisions will be made to train the accounting and financial staff. UGP will be
established as a separate entity under the tutellage of the Ministry of Rural Development. The UGP budget
for the life of the project is set up.
The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide the
borrower and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The financial
management systems will include budgetary accounting, financial reporting for intemal control and auditing
elements. A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to assist in the design and
establishment of the computerized financial management systems of the UGP. The Unit will be responsible
for project administrative and technical coordination as well as financial management. The final
configuration of the UGP, the profile of the staff as well as their job descriptions have been described in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The relevant intemal control system, meanwhile, has been
determined and fully described in the Manual of budgetary accounting and financial procedures.
b) Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) will maintain the books and accounts of the project activities and will
ensure that the production of the annual financial statements are done on a timely manner.
A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to design a computerized accounting and
financial management system, based on internationally acceptable accounting principles agreed with the
Bank. The consultant will also prepare the accompanying guidelines for the software operations and will
check whether computerized guidelines match with the Manual of budgetary financial and accounting
procedures. The manual will be agreed to by IDA. The consultant will be responsible for the initial training
of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient operation of the computerized accounting
system. They will also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in financial management
with an implementation timetable and will provide the project with assistance. The selection of the
accounting software will ensure that the system is supported by a reliable organization.
During pre-appraisal, a Bank Certified Financial Management Specialist has carried out an assessment of the
project financial management system (recommendation on adequacy and competence of the accounting and
financial staff to be recruited, relevance of the manual of budgetary financial and accounting procedures and
the Project Implementation Manual, completeness of the financial management system) to determine its
soundness and capability to provide IDA accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures.
Project Management Reports
The project is currently been appraised and needs to adopt a financial management and reporting system in
compliance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). It has been agreed, therefore, to design
the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition to the basic financial statements (Balance
sheet, Income statement, Sources and Applications of Funds), other relevant quarterly financial management
reports, namely: (a) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; (b) Contract Expenditures Report - Goods &
Works; (c) Contract Expenditures Report - Consultants; (d) Procurement Management Report - Good &
Works; and (e) Procurement Management Report - Consultants, required under PMR-based disbursement.
- 15-



Since the Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) will be newly established and the capacity of accounting and
financial staff has yet to be developed and tested, current disbursement procedures will be used for the first
18 months of implementation. It is expected that full PMR-based (Quarterly PMRs) will start in the third
quarter of the second year of implementation till closing a year and a half hence. This will require that IDA
carry out a comprehensive and detailed assessment of the project financial management to determine its full
readiness for PMR at the end of the first year of implementation. A second assessment will be carried out at
the end of the second quarter of the second year of implementation to evaluate and effect the transition to
PMR-based disbursement.
Auditing
Project records and accounts will be audited in accordance with international audit standards by an
experienced and internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be submitted
to IDA within six months after the end of Government fiscal year. In addition to their standard short-form
report with opinion on the financial statements, the auditors will be required to: (a) carry out a
comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the internal control procedures governing their preparation
for the relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (b) review the management
and utilization of the special account and express a separate opinion thereon as well; (c) the auditor will
complete their in-depth review, started at interim, of the internal control system of the project with a view to
identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for improvement.
The results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit
report.
The auditors will review and audit the use of the PPF and PHRD Grant funds covering the period prior to
effectiveness. They will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the internal
control system including management perfornance, and issue reports to that effect within one month from
the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports will be addressed by
management without delay before the final audit (mostly 6 months after closing of the fiscal year). The
contracting of auditors on a renewable multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the
financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
EA was carried out in November 1999. A summary is presented as Appendix 1 1.
In brief, the enviromnental assessment found that the impact of the project on the environment would be
globally positive but would entail risks. However, it recommended that the project have a person assigned
and in charge of the environmental and social safeguard measures of this project, including an allocation
for training. If the project is to be active in the fresh meatfiliere, an audit of the abattoirs is recommended.
Project activities should also include active monitoring of the environmental impacts of the project. The
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will include language to this effect and be precise on the procedures
which will be followed for minimizing adverse environmental impacts, once identified.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
- 16 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A study dealing with the impact on women and on the most vulnerable groups was carried out in January,
2000. The study covered several villages in the Departments of Dosso, Maradi, Tahoua and Zinder and
surveyed women and men involved in the agricultural system having links to exporting, i.e. niebe, onions,
souchet from the agricultural sector and livestock, leather and skins from the animal sector. The
methodology consisted of (a) initial analysis of the reports and technical studies done for preparation by
other consultants, (b) interviewing technical services managers and other on-site persons, and (c) individual
surveys on the basis of two types of semi-instructional questionnaires (women and men).
The study identified the vulnerable sectors and the activities which those groups can undertake in the
framework of the project. These activities concem in particularly the farming of niebe, onions, souchet,
sesame, and the raising of calves and young sheep. Women are actively participating in the business or
processing level for these products. The incomes which women eam this way can be increased within the
project framework if concrete measures are taken for access for entrepreneurs to financing capital and to
education. The organization of these target social groups is equally recommended for enabling them to
express themselves and to make their voices heard at a higher level.
The results of the social analysis underscore the importance of the second project component, that of
providing institutional support to producer groups and, in particular, to seek out and give special attention
to women's organizations.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
There are two principal participatory dimensions of the project. The first is the component of institutional
support to organizations, which will respond to the needs of producers and exporters to have a collective
voice in the sector's development. The second is the matching grant facility, which ensures that the large
portion of project financing is directed to investments which are chosen not by the project but by the
beneficiaries themselves. In addition, potential project beneficiaries and their representative organizations
have been consulted during the project design and preparation. They will be involved in project execution
and actively participate in the definition and execution of project activities.
At the central govermment level, sectoral dialogue began with the Directorate of Studies and Programming
in the former Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (now the Ministry of Rural Development and Ministry
- 17 -



of Animal Resources), while overall coordination and the coherence of the operation with the country's
broader development strategy are being handled by the private sector support unit Cellule d 'Appui au
Secteur Prive. Further consultations have taken place with the Prime Minister's office, the Ministry of
Commerce, the Ministry of Animal Resources, and the Ministry of Planning.
In addition to central government agencies, the following groups and institutions will be implicated in terms
of information sharing (IS), consultation (CON) and collaboration (COL):
Preparation                   Implementation
Producers                     IS/CON/COL                    IS/CON/COL
Exporters                     IS/CON/COL                    IS/CON/COL
NGO's                         CON/COL                       CON/COL
Academic and research institutions CON                      IS/CON/COL
Other donors                  IS/CON                        IS/CON
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do anY of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
C Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            B Yes 53 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                   B Yes I3 No
B Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     O Yes O No
[ Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       Z Yes El No
E Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   Oi Yes 3 No
L Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes 12 No
E Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              B Yes R No
EB Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              C Yes E No
O Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50. GP 7.50)    C Yes Z No
E Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          B Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The environmental assessment (summarized in Appendix 11) reviewed the capacity of the country's
regulatory framework and institutions to promote and support safe, effective, and environmentally sound
pest management. The Monitoring and Evalution specialist will receive training in environmental and pest
- 18 -



management policies to ensure that appropriate pesticides are used if matching grants are applied to
farm-level interventions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The intention of this project is to provide a catalyst for building capacity and developing a entrepreneurial
mentality in the export sector in Niger. If successful, the project would have a lasting effect from the
partnerships built during the project. Also, it is expected that the improvements in quality, knowledge of
markets and procedures, and technological innovations developed would last well beyond the life of the
project.
At the end of the project, the role of the UGP should pass to another structure. This could be the Chamber
of Commerce, or the Chamber of Agriculture (which now only exists on paper). Alternatively, the project
will explore the possibility of a federation of organizations. This is the model used in the Pilot Private
Irrigation Project, which is managed the Agence Nigerienne de Promotion de l'Irrigation Privee (ANPIP).
This future agency will not likely be able to command a substantial budget to continue to offer matching
grants. However, if the grant component is successful in creating the recognition that collective action is
effective, and if the institution support component is successful in building capacity in self-financing, then
associations may be able to finance themselves. This possibility will investigated at the Mid-Termn Review,
2.5 years into the implementation of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Information and research is received       N         The information generated by the project must
widely and used productively by clients              be regularly assessed by clients through the
M&E component to ensure accuracy, utility,
and timeliness. It must also be disseminated
through a wide variety of media.
Individuals are willing to organize and    N         Demand to organize is evident. However, the
attend seminars and training                         project must be clear on what the potential
benefits are, and a communication strategy will
support this.
Producer and exporter organizations are    N         The institutional support component can
able to articulate demand                            contract consultants or NGOs to provide
participatory appraisal methods.
Producer and exporter organizations        M         The Steering Committee will have some
willing to pay required share in cash                flexibility in setting counterpart contributions
according to perceived ability to pay.
Producer and exporter organizations able   N         The institutional support component will
to acquire legal status and meet other               contract with a lawyer, to provide legal
eligibility requirements for project                 assistance to such organizations
participation
Producer and exporter organizations able   N         The export promotion grant facility component
to write proposals that meet eligibility             and the satellite office representatives will work
requirements                                         closely with producer and exporter organizations
to ensure that proposals meet requirements.
-19-



From Components to Outputs
Demand exists for information and            N          The project will survey clients to ensure that
research findings                                      research and information meets demand.
Difficulty in securing local project         M          In-country capacity may be mobilized if
management and implementation                           motivated; it may be supplemented by short- or
capacity.                                               medium-term external expertise from a firm with
international market network connections. Key
project staff will be selected following an open
competitive selection process and should be
satisfactory at all times during project
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None expected.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions of credit effectiveness require that the Government would:
a) Staffing of a project management structure (Unite de Gestion du Projet -- UGP) staffed with
professionals experienced with agro-pastoral exports that are satisfactory to IDA. These staff are:
1. Project Coordinator
2. Administrative and financial management specialist
3. Financial comptroller
4. Procurement specialist
5. Monitoring and evaluation specialist
6. Marketing specialist
7. Informations systems specialist
8. Communication/outreach specialist
9. Producer organization specialist
10. A project analyst
11. A project representative based in Tahoua
12. A project representative based in Maradi
b) Staffing of the Steering Committee (Comite de Suivi et Evaluation -- CSO) with at least 50 percent
-20 -



private sector representation.
c) Sign a multi-year contract with an independent auditor, satisfactory to IDA, to audit all project accounts
and financial statements.
d) Adoption of a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) acceptable to IDA.
e) Establish a computerized accounting and financial management system in the UGP, acceptable to IDA.
f) Establishment of a Project Account with initial deposit.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
N/A
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
l 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
LfG 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
i3 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
e A full draft of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was discussed during negotiations. The final
document is currently being finalized.
e Recruitment for the UGP will begin soon, placing priority on the Coordinator and the Administrative
and Financial Specialist. Staffing of the CSO has not yet taken place.
e The auditor and computerized accounting and financial management system is not yet in place
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Daniel M. Sellen                  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                Theodore Ahlers
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable economic growth  *Per capita GDP         *National statistics
and poverty reduction through *Trade volumes         *National budgets
promotion of open economic  *Regional market share   *Poverty studies
policies and regional linkages *Farm incomes         *UNDP Human Development
that take advantage of external                       Reports
growth opportunities.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Producers and exporters are   *At least 80% of grant  *National statistics      *Macro and fiscal policies of
efficiently supplying the   investments successfully    *Customs data           the Government continue to
agro-pastoral export market,   meet market needs and  *Quarterly and Annual      be favorable.
reacting to market changes,    collective needs of the  project reports prepared by   *Govermnent continues to
and seizing opportunities.  organizations             the Ministry of Rural      actively support private
*At least 50% of external  Development                sector development.
market trends recognized by *Surveys of project clients and *Economic situation of
project are taken into    investments                neighbouring countries,
consideration by the     *Surveys of market trends   particularly Nigeria, remains
organizations in their                               stable, and protectionist
decision-making process                              policies are absent.
*At least 20% reduction in                           *No significant increase in
marketing costs for project                          non-official amounts (bribes)
clients                                              charged to transporters in
neighbouring countries
-22 -



Kby P6rforae
1e10roh of                                         - Moniltorthg 0  1140 Ao *    C     I A. ;U M lop
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Trade Promotion,                                                             *Information and research is
Information, and Financial  *67% of target market    *Project MIS                disseminated widely and
Services                   receiving the messages    *Reports of organization    used productively by clients
*90% of target market      meetings and seminars
Producers, exporters, and  correctly understanding the  eSurveys of organizations
importers of Niger's       message
agro-pastoral products will   *Number of hits to project
have a better knowledge of  web-site
market opportunities and are  *Number of clients assisted
provided with quality      with financing applications
information and services with
which to take advantage of
these opportunities.
2. Institutional Support to   *Number of organizations    *Project MIS          * Individuals are willing to
Producer and Exporter      created.                  *Reports of organization     organize and attend
Organizations             *25% increase in number     meetings and seminars       seminars and training
producers and exporters who eAccounting system reports   * Organizations are able to
Producers and exporters are    are active members of an    *Other reviews and audits  articulate demand
organized in effective,    organization                                         * Local NGO and private
inclusive, and legally    *Number of organizations                                sector capacity exists to
recognized common interest   who adopt savings and credit                         subcontract services
groups capable of articulating   organizations
and expressing the needs of   *Financial performance of
their membership.           savings and credit
organizations: 25% increase
in lending volume and in
repayment rates.
3. Export Promotion Grant  @90% of grant applications   *Project MIS            *Organizations willing to pay
Facility                   received and implemented   *Reports of organization   required share in cash
according to proposed plan.   meetings and seminars  *Organizations able to
Organizations of producers   *Review process is respected  eAccounting system reports   acquire legal status and meet
and exporters address      by UGP and CSO according  eAnnual performance reviews  other eligibility requirements
collective investment needs    to PIM guidelines     *M&E reports                for project participation
through the matching grant   eAt least 50 % of proposals                        *Organizations able to write
facility,                  are assessed by project for                           proposals that meet proposal
technical and economic                               eligibility requirements
feasibility
- 23 -



4. Project Management     *Existence of qualified staff  *Project MIS
mobilized, with defined  oAccounting system reports
The project implementation    performance goals      oAudits
unit operates on schedule,    *Quality of reporting  *Annual performance reviews
within budget, and is focussed *Effective M&E system in   *M&E reports
on results.                place
*Maradi and Tahoua offices
in place
*lmplementation occurs on
time and within budget
- 24 -



Key PeO      n        E
-I n- hy of  q     ves              Icatom          P           Eiyng   Evaluation    Critic  As5sum ptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Trade Promotion and    US$ 2.1 million            *Bank Disbursement records  * Demand exists for
Information Services                                 *Quarterly and Annual        information and research
*Research studies completed                           project reports prepared by  findings
and distributed                                     the Ministry of Rural
elnformation data base and                            Development
web-site established                                *Technical reviews and audits
*Bulletins published                                 *Supervision reports
*Mid-term and final project
reviews
2. Institutional Support to   US$ 1.3 million        *Bank Disbursement records  oAssociations willing to
Producer and Exporter                                *Quarterly and Annual       organize and attend training
Associations                                          project reports prepared by
*Consultants and NGO                                  the Ministry of Rural
assistance provided to                               Development
Assocations                                         *Organization reports
*Seminars and workshops by
filiere
3. Export Promotion Grant  US$ 6.0 million           *Quarterly and Annual      *Associations willing and
Facility                                              project reports prepared by    able to write proposals
*Grant applications and                               the Ministry of Rural     *Associations able to
instructions distributed to                          Development                cofinance
eligible assocations                                *Technical reviews and audits
*Per diems for CSO members                           *Supervision reports
*Consultants for evaluating                          *Mid-term and final project
proposals                                            reviews
4. Project Management     US$ 1.77 million           *Bank Disbursement records  *Difficulty in securing local
eVehicles, computers, office                         *Quarterly and Annual       project management and
space acquired                                       project reports prepared by    implementation capacity.
*Management hired                                     the Ministry of Rural
competitively                                        Development
oEnvironmental training for                          *Audits
M&E                                                 *Supervision reports
*Mid-term and final project
reviews
- 25 -



Annex 2: Project Description
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.10 million
a) Trade Promotion and Information Services
Output. At the end of this project, producers, exporters, and importers of Niger's agro-pastoral products
will have a better knowledge of market opportunities and are provided with quality information and
services with which to take advantage of these opportunities.
This component is aimed at addressing the lack of quality, quantity, and availability of data and
infonnation on production, prices, exports, and other market conditions. It will contain a cluster of
activities including product and market identification and development, trade information services,
specialized support services on procedures, product quality and packaging, applied research, promotional
activities abroad, and a project web site.
Market information system: General market profiles prepared and distributed to exporters. Information
needs will be determined and recorded through regular contacts with companies and entrepreneurs. Project
staff will be trained to collect, analyze, and disseminate such information. Regular checks will be made to
ensure that information corresponds to users' needs. A file on intemational physical distribution operations
will be created and maintained. Working groups will be set up in each sub-sector to assist specialists in this
task, and questionnaires will developed. All profiles will be updated regularly. Company marketing plans
will be formulated. A point of departure for most of these initiatives will be a series of seminars which
would attract stakeholders in each important commodity system. With the assistance of producers and
exporters, the project will identify technological constraints to efficient production, marketing, and
processing of export products. Once identified, the project can finance applied research with the University,
the national agricultural research institute (INRAN), or elsewhere, to find solutions and distribute the
findings. Project findings will be distributed through a variety of media, including print and radio.
Trade promotion: Product profiles and company profiles will be prepared and distributed to potential
buyers, who will be identified in the course of market studies for high-potential products. Product samples
acquired and distributed to potential buyers. Information will be available on the web on products available
from Niger. The project will also encourage participation in international trade fairs on a matching grant
basis through the third component. It will also cofinance sellers' missions for dialogue between exporters
and foreign buyers, and invite foreign buyers to Niger. Assistance will be given to trade offices in Kano,
Abidjan, Accra, and Paris.
Quality development: Under this subcomponent assistance will be provided to producers/exporters in
establishing Nigerien product brands, logos, labels and packaging materials. The project will attempt to
persuade exporters of the need to adopt appropriate quality management objectives. Specific information
will be disseminated on quality requirements in target markets (inspection, testing, and certification) and
technical aspects of packaging materials. The project will identify sources of supply for labels and
packaging material, and will advise exporters on adapting export packages to foreign market requirements.
Export andfinancing procedures: The project will offer advice and information to new and existing
exporters on understanding procedures for carrying out export opportunities and on securing finance. Any
constraining procedures will be identified and recommendations formulated and expressed to
policy-makers. On-the-spot advice on procedural and financial matters will be offered to exporters. In
- 26 -



addition, workshops will be organized to explain procedures to a wider audience, and the project will help
identify training needs of the export sector. Printed summary material will be prepared for exporters.
Financial advisory services and training for entrepreneurs in the agro-pastoral export sector will also be
provided to facilitate access to the formal banking sector's facilities through assistance in preparing credit
applications and helping arrange sound financial packages, especially for smaller export businesses. The
project will initiate research on the regional regulatory framework and the problems of transferring funds
and guaranteeing payments.
Project Component 2 - US$1.30 million
b) Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter Organizations
Output.-At the end of this project, existing associations of producers and exporters of Niger's high-value
crops and livestock products will be strengthened and new associations created.
This component is aimed at organizing producers and exporters so that they are capable of taking
advantage of market opportunities and ensuring that stakeholders have a voice in the direction of the sector.
Where the first component aims primarily at information generation, this component is concemed with
extending the information to the sector in a practical form. Support will be provided through project
specialists, consultants, seminars, and other training fora.
Capacity-building: This sub-component will assist with the organizational development of producers and
exporters, including definition of roles and objectives, and priorities. Assistance will be extended on
administrative and financial management and democratic procedures. The project will also help
organizations acquire legal status, which will be required to be eligible to receive matching grants (see
component 3). There will also be assistance in the development of mechanisms to coordinate activities and
understanding the different needs of the different stakeholders in the filiere.
Service provision: Organizations will be assisted in developing their work programs together with training
in simplified cost accounting and management principles. On request, they will receive help in preparing
financing applications for commercial banks. Similarly, organizations may request assistance in the
establishment of a savings and credit association (using existing networks).
Communication and outreach: Advice will be extended to organizations on techniques to improve yields
and quality (such as varieties, seeds, production and irrigation techniques, storage, drying, etc.).
Information will be provided on the demands of the market with respect to quality, conditioning,
presentation, and hygiene standards. Monthly bulletins and other informnation generated in the first
component will be made available.
Project Component 3 - US$ 6.00 million
c) Export Promotion Grant Facility
Output: At the end of this project, organizations of producers and exporters address collective investment
needs through the matching grant facility.
This component is aimed at addressing the lack of financing in the sector, and in creating the incentive to
organize. It is a demand-driven matching grant facility that is made available to the Organizations assisted
or formed in the second component. Organizations will be actively encouraged and assisted in preparing
proposals based on the needs of their members. These proposals will be initially screened by the project
- 27 -



implementation unit (the UGP), and in some cases a consultant may be hired to determine technical and
economic feasibility. Decisions on the proposals will made by the Steering Committee (the CSO). Based on
prior performance, subsequent proposals may be made, although the associations would have to assume .a
larger burden of the cost.
Criteria for eligibility: Beneficiaries of APEPP matching grants must be organized groups of producers,
exporters, collectors of hides and skins, local retailers and export processors. Organizations must be legally
recognized or in the process of being legalized in order to submit proposals for grants. They must operate
in one of the project-approved sectors, and show the capacity to organize and manage project-funded
operations or agree to receive the necessary training. From each beneficiary, the project will require precise
substantiation, such as its articles of association, expertise, mission and function, headquarters or address,
point of contact, authorized person to sign the co-financing agreement. Detailed information regarding the
project parameters and the capacity of the beneficiary, its plan of action, and its personnel and logistics
profiles, will be required to be fumished to the project. Full details of eligibility are contained in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).
Criteria for receiving matching grants: The project will supply matching grants to eligible organizations
to the extent that grant proposals satisfy certain criteria. First, the project will favour favour high-value
products for which a current or potential market exists, and as such will concentrate on onions, souchet,
sesame, niebe, gum arabic, livestock, meat, and hides and skins. However, the project will remain open to
supporting other high-potential sectors as indicated by studies conducted by the project and/or as proposed
by organizations. Second, the project will favour proposals where the benefits of the investment appear to
favour a large number of beneficiaries, or where there is a clearly "public good" characteristic of the
investment proposed. Third, the project will favour proposals for investment where the beneficiaries have
made a convincing argument that operation and maintenance of the investment (if applicable) are assured.
Fourth, the economic and financial rates of return for these investments must be judged to be sound. Such
calculations may be done in advance by the project implementation unit (UGP), as part of the monitoring
and evaluation function or by contracting with consultants. Fifth, the project will favour projects where it
has been demonstrated that it will not displace existing private investment. Sixth, the project will favour
proposals made from women's groups or other organizations of relatively poor individuals.
Project Component 4 - US$1.77 million
d) Project Management
Output: The project implementation unit operates on schedule, within budget, and is focussed on results.
Project management will be carried out by qualified professionals experienced in agricultural export and
farmer organization, and will have carefully prepared performance goals and expectations. Monitoring and
evaluation will be a critical role of the management team. The project will be based in the former
headquarters of Agricultural Services Project, which will require rehabilitation. The organigram and text
below elaborate on the roles of the CSO and the UGP.
-28 -



GOVERNMENT
r          -__    -I                         Ti----------------
Private Sector Representatives  Comite de Suivi et d'Orientation       Public Sector Representatives
Pro dacers -Hprn'   I   D.                                         A   WAR MP  A MF    ME
ICha - soB de C;omm me - AURI               c ov                     I     
I-I  .-- - - - - - - -S-- - - -                 I                      L    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I    Trade Promotion and       dur                     ExportdPromotion       Regional Offices In
I    Wormation Services      Producer andExporter       Grant FacUlty         Tahous and Ma_adi
Organizatiorks
1. Steering Committee (Comite de Suivi et d'Orientation)
The roles of the CSO are to provide overall project guidance, some project monitoring, and approval of
micro-project proposals submitted by project clients:
Overall project guidance
* Ensures that project implementation follows general principles of project
* Approves objectives and major annual priorities proposed by the UGP based on trends in commodity
systems, markets and the national, regional and intemational economic climate
- Ensures intenninisterial coordination of project activities and proposes political solutions to problems
and constraints hampering export development
Monitoring
*   Approves annual work programs and budgets presented by the coordinator of the UGP
* Approves the previous year's activity report and financial statements
* Evaluates the performance of the coordinator and proposes remedial measures to the oversight ministry
in the event of deficiency
*   Ensures that audits are performed regularly
Micro-project approval
* Receives financing requests submitted by POs and processed by the project
* Approves requests that are in keeping with the project's financing criteria, broad objectives and annual
priorities
* Receives the roster of projects submitted to, and rejected by, the UGP, along with reasons for rejection
* Clarifies project financing conditions to organizations
* If necessary, asks UGP to carry out additional studies before granting its approval for certain projects
* Suggests to UGP whatever project evaluations (of ongoing or completed projects) it deems useful so
that lessons leamed from completed activities can be incorporated quickly into the project
- 29 -



2. Project Implementation Unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet)
The role of the UGP will be activity programming, implementation of the annual work plan, monitoring and
evaluation, assessment of the previous year's activity program, and project financial and administrative
management, and contract management.
Programming of activities based on guidelines provided by the CSO
*  Implementation plan for project start-up
*  Annual work program
* . Annual budget, by component
*   Forecast of disbursements out of grant funds
*   Submission to CSO of proposed funding distribution/allocation by commodity or type of activity
Implementation of annual work programs approved by the CSO
*  Implementation of activities by component (by project)
*  Analysis of financing requests submitted to the project
*  Presentation of all requests to CSO along with recommended action by the project
*   Monitoring of projects approved by the CSO (carried out by the POs)
Monitoring & evaluation
*  Baseline situation,
*  Preparation of monitoring plan
e  Monitoring of project management
e   Monitoring of results and impacts
Contract management
3  Development of terms of reference for selection of consulting firms, NGOs, and various participants in
project implementation Selection of firms
i   Contract negotiation and signing
*   Monitoring of contracts and results
The UGP is made up of the following professional members:
1. Project Coordinator
2. Administrative and financial management specialist
3. Financial comptroller
4. Procurement specialist
5. Monitoring and evaluation specialist
6. Marketing specialist
7. Informations systems specialist
8. Communication/outreach specialist
9. Producer organization specialist
10. A project analyst
11. A project representative based in Tahoua
12. A project representative based in Maradi
Support will include an accountant, a clerk for documents/photocopying, two secretaries, three drivers, a
building caretaker, two night watchmen and one general handyman. The Tahoua and Maradi
- 30 -



representatives will be supported by a secretary each.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
A. Trade Promotion and Information Services                 1.44         0.66          2.10
B. Institutional Support to Producer & Exporter Organizations  1.30      0.00          1.30
C. Export Promotion Grant Facility                          5.00         0.00          5.00
D. Beneficiaries                                            1.00         0.00          1.00
E. Vehicles and Equipment                                   0.25         0.00          0.25
F. Project Management                                       1.10         0.00          1.10
G. Audit                                                    0.13         0.00          0.13
H. Recurrent Cost                                           0.29         0.00          0.29
1. PPF                                                      0.50         0.00          0.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        11.01         0.66         11.67
Physical Contingencies                                                                0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.35         0.03          0.38
Total Project Costs              11.36          0.69        12.05
Total Financing Required               11.36         0.69         12.05
- 32 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
As indicated in the introduction to the project document, the project is in line with
macro-economic and sectoral strategies adopted by the Government of Niger to restore
macro-economic equilibrium, mainly by increasing the share of the agro-pastoral sector in
the balance of payments, improving living standards and boosting incomes. At the same
time, and based on the fact that Niger's agro-pastoral exports are bound for subregional
markets that are vast due to the proximity of Nigeria alone, the Bank Group's main
strategy in Niger is to promote a policy of openness that will allow the country to exploit
to best advantage its membership in several subregional organizations devoted to economic
integration and trade cooperation.
This choice of strategy. is based on certain facts that support the belief that agro-pastoral
exports can fuel a sustainable economic dynamic.
First of all, external demand is growing. Indeed, the economic results posted by all
countries in the subregion, as, well as by the main customers for Niger's agro-pastoral
products, have undergone a rate of positive growth over the past four or five years that
exceeds population growth. This means an increase in national per capita wealth.
Secondly, the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994 increased the competitiveness of
Niger's agro-pastoral products on subregional markets, particularly vis-a-vis onions and
garlic from Holland and meat from South Africa and Europe. The small share of imported
production factors in the cost of agro-pastoral products has caused the devaluation to have
a fairly lasting impact on producers' gross margins. WAEMU's main goal in the wake of
the devaluation was to intensify those effects. The free trade agreement concerning
duty-free commerce throughout WAEMU countries in those countries' own products,
which became effective on January 1, 2000, should greatly reduce hidden costs borne by
operators on export routes and improve the competitiveness of exported products within
the WAEMU zone.
Finally, the socio-political situation is stabilizing in the sub-region. More specifically,
Nigeria's return to civil rule and the commitment of that country's authorities to stabilize
and restart the economy will certainly boost the purchasing power of the Nigerian
population, which is the main external market for Niger's agro-pastoral products.
The comparative advantages of Niger's agro-pastoral exports and the currently favorable
trends in the subregional environment, then, seem to justify a policy of export promotion.
With any project, however, costs are involved in obtaining the desired benefits. The latter
must be sufficiently large to discourage any alternative use of the required funds. In
addition, since the future is uncertain, project implementation necessarily involves risks
that need be evaluated to the extent possible.
- 33 -



I - Cost-benefit analysis
I - 1 Methodology
This analysis aims to assess the project's impact on Niger's economy. Its purpose is
mainly to detennine the project's capacity to achieve its objectives, its benefits and the
long-term economic impacts that justify its cost. The tools utilized are the net present
value (NPV) of cash flows and the internal rate of return (IRR). Since project activities
involve both exporters and producers, the benefits under consideration are additional
increases in exports and production, augmented respectively by export margins and
producers' profits. Assumptions about cash flow trends, which are expected to be both
favorable and sustained, are based on the following:
- that demand will remain strong and sustained on markets that constitute the main
outlets for the products in question;
-that these markets will remain open and devoid of non-tariff barriers;
-that increased transaction costs will not cancel out profits derived from exports;
-that producer prices are positively correlated with international prices, in such a way
that they always reflect true market conditions;
-that the macro-economic framework will remain stable and that agricultural and trade
policies will remain conducive to export promotion;
-that natural constraints are being progressively alleviated; and
-that the monetary environment in the subregion will continue to foster the
competitiveness of Niger's products.
The sensitivity analysis to be carried out later will determine how robust the project's
performance would be, in terms of IRR and NPV, if certain of these assumptions were
removed, particularly those concerning transaction costs and the monetary environment in
the subregion.
Export variables
From the practical standpoint, export flows under the "without project" and "with project"
scenarios were calculated on the basis of average official exports over the last ten years.
Wherever the available data made it possible, the data series were evened out (using the
running averages method) over the 1982-1998 period to dampen the impact of cyclical
fluctuations. The erratic nature of flow trends made it necessary to choose exogenous
growth rates for the "without project " scenario. These rates are within the approximate
range of the baseline economic scenario assumed in the World Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), as far as annual GDP growth over the next ten years is concerned.
Growth rates under the "with project" scenario are the levels to which exports would rise if
all exportable quantities were in fact exported by Niger's economic operators. Induced
growth obviously has a limit: namely, the maximum potential supply of goods for export.
This last is determined, in the case of agricultural products, based on the highest yields
(over the 1982-98 period) and the optimal distribution of arable land amongst the various
crops. Since this last variable is not known, the greatest cultivated land area over that
period is used as a "proxy" value, a technique that unfortunately entails a high risk of
overestimation if the expansion observed has occurred at the expense of other crops.
- 34 -



The export margin is calculated based on the destination price, less transaction costs, and
the producer price. The destination price was chosen because, for most exports, it is
Nigeriens themselves who do the selling on extemal markets in the subregion. Since prices
for agro-pastoral products are determined by the market, one can assume that they reflect
the purchasers' willingness to pay. Also, trade has been liberalized in the countries that
constitute the main subregional export outlets for Niger's agro-pastoral products.
Correcting for seasonal deviations requires monthly price checks over a period of several
years (using the standard deviation in gross value for each month). Such data is not
available for all products under consideration. Besides, the producer prices used are
averages calculated over the entire year, so they can be assumed to mitigate the impact of
seasonal deviations. There was also no correction for exchange rates, since exports are
bound either for WAEMU countries or to countries in the subregion where payment is
made on the basis of black market exchange rates, which can be viewed as compensatory.
Export mark-ups on agricultural products are those calculated in the study done by the
firm of Del Degan, Masse et Associes, Inc. For livestock products, a quick survey was
done among exporters based in Niamey. The data thus obtained was then adjusted to real
1998 terms.
Production variables
Producers are one of the main targets of the project. The anticipated additional growth of
production in the selected commodity streams will translate into greater project benefits in
terms of profits eamed by producers. For each agricultural product under consideration,
this profit corresponds to the difference between the quantities produced under the "
without project" and "with project" scenarios, augmented by the net profit derived from
production figures established by the above-mentioned study done by Del Degan, Masse et
Associes, Inc. Production flows under the "without project" and "with project" scenarios
were calculated on the basis of production averages for the past ten years.
Growth rates under the "without project" scenario are average annual rates calculated on
the basis of evened-out data series. Growth rates under the "with project" scenario were
based on the assumption that the project's induced effect would make it possible to
achieve, over a period of 15 years, half of the maximum potential production, defined as
harvest yields multiplied by the greatest cultivated areas observed over the past ten years.
It should be pointed out that these latter rates must be considered somewhat exogenous,
and that their achievement is therefore one of the conditions of the project's success.
The opportunity cost of capital was set at 12%, a rate frequently used for WAEMU
countries. Calculations are based on constant 1998 prices.
I - 2 - Results of the cost-benefit analysis
It should be emphasized that calculations were made and results assessed subject to
important reservations expressed in the initial draft project document (p. 87) concerning
the paucity of data on export flows and actual destination sales conditions, and the still
very sketchy idea of the cost of the project itself.
- 35 -



The financial cost is put at CFAF 11.8 billion, net of monetary depreciation and physical
contingencies. The economic cost is estimated at CFAF 10.6 billion (about 10% less than
the financial cost, based on our observations of similar projects in the subregion.). These
costs correspond to present values of CFAF 9,083.80 million and CFAF 7,789.52 million,
respectively.
Values for the NPV and IRR generated by the project, over 10 years and over 15 years,
are set out in the following table.
Table 1: Cost-benefit analysis and fiscal impact of the project (in millions of CFAF)
(IO years)                    Economic analysis             Financial analysis
Benefit                       22,700                        22,700
Cost                           7,789                        9,083
Net benefit                    14,916                        13,617
IRR (10 years)                48%                           41%
(15 years)                    Economic analysis             Financial analysis
Benefit                       40,549                        40,459
Cost                          7,789                         9,083
Net benefit                    32,760                       9,084
IRR (10 years)                 53%                          47%
The project's fiscal impact is calculated on the basis of a value-based rate of 1% applied
to additional exports valued at FOB (free on board), or border, prices. The present value
of induced revenues over a period of 15 years amounts to CFAF 1,424 million.
II - Risk and sensitivity analyses
The still-decisive influence of exogenous factors on agro-pastoral production, as well as
Niger's "price-taker" status on export markets, make it highly probable that project
implementation will not go entirely as planned. Thus, higher producer prices resulting, for
example, from diminished supply (due to weather-related harvest problems) could reduce
or even cancel out export margins. The same goes for increased transport costs, the use of
air freight for certain targeted products such as vegetables (such as tomatoes and bell
peppers), and an abrupt depreciation of partner countries' currencies, such as the Nigerian
naira in particular.
- 36 -



Aside from these random events, better knowledge of data used in the analysis and of
probable implementation delays in the project itself will necessarily lead to adjustments
that are likely to cause fluctuations in the project's anticipated benefits. Hence the need to
do a sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of these variation assumptions on the
outcome of the cost-benefit analysis.
The method used involves a << variation value >>. Using this method, one tries to determine
how much cash-flows can be reduced before the net present value drops to zero, assuming
an economic rate of return on capital of 12%. The calculations performed indicate that a
drop of more than 65% in project benefits is needed before the internal rate of return falls
to a level about equivalent to the opportunity cost of capital over a period of 10 years.
Over 15 years, the decline in project benefits must exceed 81% for the internal rate of
return to be equivalent to the opportunity cost of capital. However, it seems fairly clear
that only exceptionally unfavorable cyclical movements or very aggressive monetary
policies could result in such wide variations. One can therefore conclude that the
cost-benefit analysis of the project's overall performance is solid.
It should also be pointed out that a 10% increase in the cost of overland transport only
causes a 4% drop in the IRR and VAN over 10 years, a weak impact which is explained
by the volume of profits accruing to producers who would not be directly affected by such
an event.
The nature of the project (i.e. promotion, incentives, support to the organization of
commodity systems) makes it very vulnerable to adverse events that could occur in the
early years and that would thus delay the arrival of the anticipated benefits. In order to
take this sensitivity into account, another variation value was calculated, showing that
project benefits can be delayed by three years before the rate of return falls to 12% or
below. Beyond the three-year mark, the project would have to be suspended if economic
profitability were the only criterion being considered.
On the other hand, sensitivity at the product level is quite variable: the extent of producer
price variations (due, for example, to adverse weather) that would cancel out the NPV for
exports ranges from 5% for cowpeas to 111% for ground peas (souchet). Given the
fluctuations in exchange rates for the naira, for which the trend is clearly downward, this
switching value can be reached fairly quickly. The fact that exports to Nigeria dried up
prior to the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc illustrates this high degree of sensitivity.
Outlets for cowpeas therefore need to be diversified if this product is to remain among the
top-ranked export products.
Table 2: Switching values for producer prices
Initial value       Switching value       % variation
Cowpeas (FCFA/kg)          150                 155                   5
Onion (FCFA/kg)           40                   65                    63
- 37 -



Ground peas (FCFA/kg)     200                423                  111
Cattle (FCFA/head)        17,5000            189,605              8
Sheep (FCFA/head)        35,000              47,869               37
Goats (FCFA/head)        25,000              29,542               18
A similar analysis of CIF (cost, insurance, freight) prices also reveals very diverse
sensitivities. The CIF prices that would cancel out the NPV of export cash flows are
shown in the table below. In general, exports are highly sensitive to a drop in destination
prices, undoubtedly because margins are small due to the country's landlocked position
and the fact that external market outlets are currently located in developing countries
where purchasing power is relatively weak and where Niger's products are up against a
certain amount of competition.
Table 3: Switching values of CIF prices
Initial value      Switching value     % variation
Cowpea (FCFA/kg)           217,8              210                 4
Onion (FCFA/kg)            150                124                 17
Ground peas (FCFA/kg)      400                177                 56
Cattle (FCFAlhead)         215,000            20,0395             7
Sheep (FCFA/head)         44,700              31,830             29
Goats (FCFA/head)         29,000              24,450              16
m  - Project benefits
Niger's economy is extremely open to the outside world, but the country's landlocked
position, the thinness of its export sectors and the lack of organization on the part of
operators and in trade circuits have made it impossible to optimize the gains obtained from
external trade. Since it is aimed at these main weaknesses, the project presents numerous
benefits for Niger's economy.  These are explained in great detail in the project's
sub-programs and backed up by the studies of production streams. The benefits can be
summarized in the following five points:
-the streamlining of export activities and the creation of product "labels" will promote
a favorable image of Niger on foreign markets;
-increased export diversification reduces the risks of a drop in income due to
- 38 -



fluctuations in export receipts, fluctuations that are themselves caused by excessive
dependency upon a small number of traditional products;
-industries (such as packaging) linked to export activities will develop;
-the expansion of these industries and the proliferation of small production and export
units will generate jobs and fiscal revenues;
-the stabilization of incomes and the creation of jobs will help alleviate poverty;
-the strengthening and rationalization of producers' and exporters' associations will
have numerous extemal effects, not all of which are quantifiable:
improvement in the quality and methods of packaging;
more efficient gathering and dissemination of data on prices and promising markets;
grouping, and, therefore, economies of scale in freight and other charges;
promotion of new or improved technologies;
greater negotiating power, and a capacity to weigh in on decisions affecting sectoral policy and the
environment
IV - Production streams covered by the economic analyses
The economic analysis covered cowpeas, onions, ground peas, livestock on the hoof and
hides and skins (which together accounted for 83% of agro-pastoral exports in 1998). The
available data on the other products mentioned in the project document -- meat, milk, bell
peppers, garlic, sesame and gum arabic -- is not sufficient to allow for analysis. This
omission should not affect the solidity of the analysis, however, since most of these
products either constitute a negligible share of exports at present, or are not even exported
yet.
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Years Ending
2005
Year I     Year 2  1 Year 3  I Year 4       Year 5      Year 6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             2.0        2.1        2.7         2.7        2.2        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            2.1        2.2        2.8         2.8        2.3        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                2.1        2.2        2.8         2.8        2.3        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    1.8         1.9        2.3        2.3         1.9       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.1         0.1        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries               0.1         0.2        0.3        0.3        0.2        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       2.0        2.2         2.8        2.8        2.3        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-40 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Procurement
GENERAL
1.    Goods and works financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999) (The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard Evaluation
Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out using the Bank's
SBD with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and notification",
"currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic preference
provision, etc. Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and
the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder
qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic
manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports
will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids,
draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and
found acceptable.
2.    Consultant services contracts financed by IDA credit will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the
Bank, will be used for appointment of Consultants.
3.    Civil works, goods and services for export promotion sub-projects financed by the matching Grant
and involving the construction, repair, rehabilitation and equipment aimed at strengthening agricultural
produce and livestock export such as irrigation infrastructure, agricultural product storage, rural roads, etc.
shall be governed when applicable by the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
4.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and published in the United Nations
Development Business at time of negotiations to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB.
Publication of a GPN to be published in the national press or official gazette is also required for NCB. The
program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are
summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and
prior review are summarized in Tables AI and B below.
5.    Procurement Status and Proposed Arrangements. Procurement would be managed by the Project
Management Unit (Unite de Gestion de Projet) which will include a procurement specialist and would use
consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. The recruitment of all positions in the UGP should be
acceptable to IDA prior to credit effectiveness and during the life of the project.
6.    Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The UGP would be required to
-41 -



prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be
exceeded during the life of project implementation.
7.    Project Implementation Manuel (PIM). The PIM is currently being finalized. It will serve as a
practical guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DCA. It will include: (i) procedures for calling for
bids, selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision and control,
including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting requirements and,
(iii) disbursement procedures. The PIM will be examined during negotiations and adopted before credit
effectiveness. In any case, a version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
8.    Before effectiveness, the Govemment will review and agree with IDA on: (a) a draft procurement
plan for the first year of the project prepared during appraisal; (b) a draft version of the PIM; (c) standard
bidding documents to be used under NCB procedures for Goods and works; and (d) a plan for training the
CPG. The Government will also give assurance that it will: (a) use the Project Implementation Manual; (b)
use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection
of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews
with IDA and other donors, to compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during
implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an
assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the
current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.
Civil Works & Goods
9.    Civil Works contracts financed by IDA are estimated at US$0.04 million. They will cover the
construction and or rehabilitation of the Project Management Unit's office. Civil Works contract would be
procured through NCB and will be managed by the UGP. Contractor classification will be made known to
all bidders.
10.   Procurement of computer equipment, and other office equipment and materials, in limited numbers
would be carried out under NCB. Procurement through IAPSO may be envisaged for vehicles. Other goods
(mainly office supplies and equipment including communications materials) locally available at economical
price and costing less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 will be
procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Items that cannot be grouped into bulk procurement
or bid packages of at least US$20,000 (office supply, spare part, gasoline, other consumables) would be
procured trough national shopping according to procedures acceptable to IDA. The Borrower would award
the contract, on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers, following
evaluation of bids received in writing from such qualified suppliers. The award would be made to the
supplier with the lowest price quotation for the required goods, provided he still has the experience and
resources to execute the contract successfully.
11.   IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$ 100.000 equivalent for
Goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures in accordance to Appendix I of the Guidelines. The
review process would cover about 80% of the contract amounts for goods -- see Table B below.
-42 -



Consultants Services
12.   Consulting Services financed by IDA would be for (i) studies, supervision, support of project
implementation, financial management support, financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical matters
and training--skills gap analysis and skills development. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 3.65
million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999).
Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The UGP would ensure widely publicized
expression of interest to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria, the UGP will
maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists.
13.   Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.05 million, the least-cost selection (LCS) would be the most appropriate method
-- the firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical proposal received the minimum
qualifying mark. Consultants services for small and simple services (estimated to cost less than US$25,000
per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications
(CQ), based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Services for
lecturers and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals, would be selected through comparison of
qualifications among individual consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly. Single Source Selection (SSS), will be exceptionally used for training, with IDA's prior
agreement, provided the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$100,000
over the project life. Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available
at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for specialized studies with NGOs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from
consideration.
14.   IDA Reviews. Bank Staff will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed
by the Borrower in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Consultants.
15.   The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measure to
ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases                  Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents            4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders               4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                     2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of Contracts                           2
Payments                                   3
-43 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00            0.05           0.25            0.00           0.30
(0.00)         (0.04)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.04)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.10           0.28            0.00           0.38
(0.00)         (0.09)          (0.16)         (0.00)         (0.25)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           4.09            0.00           4.09
Consultant Services                 (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.86)          (0.00)         (3.86)
4. Training                          0.00            0.00           0.96            0.00           0.96
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.91)         (0.00)         (0.91)
5. Grant Facility                    0.00            0.00           6.00            0.00           6.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (5.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)
6. Recurrent Costs                   0.00            0.00           0.32            0.00           0.32
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.29)         (0.00)         (0.29)
Total                             0.00            0.15           11.90           0.00           12.05
(0.00)         (0.13)         (10.22)         (0.00)         (10.35)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2i Includes civil works to be procured locally, goods to be procured through IAPSO and by national
shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)
re-lending project funds to local government units.
-44 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
SerVi.es
Expendituire   QGBS       Q8S       SFB       LCS        Co       Other     N.BJF.  Tota Cost'
A. Firms           0.44      0.00      0.00      0.30      0.15      0.56       0.00      1.45
(0.44)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.15)    (0.56)    (0.00)    (1.45)
B. Individuals     1.10      0.00      0.00      0.30      0.61      0.63       0.00      2.64
.    ((1.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.61)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (2.41)
Total   1.54     0.00      0.00       0.60      0.76      1.19      0.00      4.09
(1.54)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.60)    (0.76)    (0.96)    (0.00)    (3.86)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                 Between $50,000 and            NCB                   Prior Review
$20,000                       .                 $40,000
2. Goods                   Above $100,000                ICB                  Prior Review
$150,000
Above $50,000               NCB                   Post Review
Less than $20,000       National Shopping          Post Review
3. Services
Consulting Firms          $50,000 and above             QCBS                  Prior Review
$1,800,000
Financial Audit                 N/A                      LCS                  Prior Review
$50,000
Individual Consultants    $20,000 and above     Comparison of at least 3      Prior Review
CVs                   $200,000
Less than $20,000    Comparison of at least 3      Post Review
CVs               (Except for TORs)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  80 percent of total
costs
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six (6) months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
A computerized accounting and integrated financial management system will be set up and assessed by
IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all
disbursements that will be effected under the project. The project is expected to be completed over a
five-year period, by 04/30/2005, and the credit is expected to be closed by 10/31/2005.
(a) Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full
documentation except for items of expenditures under contracts of less than: (a) $50,000 for civil
works and goods; (b) $100,000 for consultant services contracts for firms; (c) $50,000 for
consultant services contracts for individuals as well as (d) all training and operating costs, which will
be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for
SOEs will be retained at the Unite de Gestion du Projet (UGP) and will be readily accessible for
review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors;
(b) Special Account: To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, the Government will open a Special Account in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 350 million and will
cover about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the
amount of FCFA 175 million representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments issued amount
to the equivalent of USD 5 million. The Special Account will be used for all payments in an amount
below 20% of the initial deposit to the Special Account. Replenishment applications will be
submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
Flow offunds
The Special Account would be managed by the UGP which would use it to pay for all the eligible
expenditures. The UGP would ensure that all disbursements are effected in accordance with Bank
procedures. The UGP will have responsibility for the production of the annual consolidated financial
statements.
-47 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Export Promotion Grant Facility        4000000.00                     100%
Civil Works                             40000.00         100% of foreign expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures
Goods                                  250000.00         100% of foreign expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures
Consultant Services and Audit          3360000.00                     100%
Training                                890000.00                     100%
Operating Costs                        290000.00                      95%
Refunding of PPF                        500000.00                      N/A
Unallocated                            1020000.00                      N/A
Total Project Costs                    10350000.00
Total                                  10350000.00
-48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
PrSch--u:                                   P-anned ---
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      7                             7
First Bank mission (identification)              11/06/98                     11/06/98
Appraisal mission departure                      01/14/2000                   02/14/2000
Negotiations                                    03/10/2000                    03/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/01/2000
Prepared by:
Cellule Technique de Reflexion, Ministere de Developpement Rural, Niger (M. Abba Malam Boukar,
coordinator)
Preparation assistance:
M. Allachi Boukar, consultant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Daniel Sellen                     Project leadership from HQ (TTL from September 1999)
Salifou Mahaman                   Project leadership from RM
Soulemane Fofana                  Operations analyst
Wilda Sajous                      Project assistance from HQ
Hadidia Djimba                    Project assistance from RM
Lynn Engstrand                    Agribusiness development
Ousmane Sissoko                   Quality Assurance (TTL up to September 1999)
Amadou Alassane                   Additional support from RM
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni                Additional support from RM
Guy-Joseph Malembeti              Procurement
Luc Lapointe                      Procurement
R6nee Desclaux                    Disbursement
Mamadou Yaro                      Audit, financial management
Bertrand De Chazal                Audit, financial management
Irene Xenakis                     Quality Assurance
Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                Assistance with Appraisal
Hans Wabnitz                      Counsel
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Manuel de Procedures, Rene Cipriani, Consultant, and others. February 2000 ( pp.)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Peer Reviews from Patrick Labaste, Guzman Garcia-Rivero, Ismael Ouedraogo, Amadou Ibrahim,
Jean-Luc Bernasconi
*  Results from Quality Enhancement Review, February 10- 11, 2000
C. Other
Preparation reports.
* Projet de document principal de preparation du PPEAP, Agada Nguessan and Laouali Chaffani,
Consultants. January 2000 (236 pp.)
*  Etude sur la Facilitation du Commerce pour les Aspects Couvrant la Filiere Elevage,
* Etude sur la Facilitation du Commerce, Pamela Khumbah, Consultant. January 2000 (75 pp.)
*  Etude sur la Facilitation du Commerce Couvrant les Filieres Agricoles, Toudou Adam, Laouali
Ibrahim, Raymond Audette, Consultants, January 2000.(126 pp.)
a Manuel des Procedures Administratives, Comptables, et Financieres, Desire Coquillat, Consultant.
December 1999, (345 pp.)
* Evaluation des infrastructure d'exportation, Groupement d'Etudes Promo-Transport and
Transport-Consult, January 2000, (112 pp.)
*  Evaluation Environnementale, Boukari Tare/Geomatric Corp, Consultant, February 2000, (101 pp.)
* Etude sur l'analyse sociale et l'impact du projet de promotion des exportations des produits
agro-pastoraux sur les femmes et les couches les plus pauvres, Cadres-Conseils, January 2000 (114
pp.)
* Etude defaisabilite sur les mecanismes de Financement des Activites des Operateurs Prives
Impliqu6s dans la Mise en Oeuvre du PPEAP, Cabinet REDES, February 2000, (45 pp.)
*  Rapport General sur lIAtelier de Validation du Document de Formulation du Projet dAppui ai la
Promotion des Exportations Agro-pastorales, Maradi, January 24-28, 2000 (31 pp.)
Other documents:
* Identification mission SMO, BTOR, and Aide Memoire
* Preparation mission SMO, BTOR, and Aide Memoire
* FOM preparation BTOR, October 1, 1999
* Minutes of the Concept Review Meeting
* Minutes of the Decision Meeting
* Pre-appraisal mission SMO, BTOR, and Aide Memoire
* FOM appraisal mission BTOR
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Difference between expecte(
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRD        IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P001980        1994 Niger                        EDUCATION III -SECA                       0.00      41.40         0.00       1012       5.07      000
P001999        1997 Niger                        HEALTH II                                 0.00      40.00         0.00       26.36     12 74      0.00
P001967        1996 Niger                        NATURAL RES. MGMT                         0.00      26.70         0.00       11.05      4.80      0.80
P001994        1995 Niger                        PILOT PRIVATE IRRIG                       0.00        6.80        0.00        2.45      2.93      2.88
P051272        1999 Niger                        PRIVATIZ./REG.REFORM                      0.00       18.60        0.00       14.93      7.48      000
P055186        1999 Niger                        PUBLIC FIN. REFORM                        0.00      64.00         0.00       40.46     18.23      0.00
P035608        1998 Niger                        TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                      0.00      28.00         0.00       20.62     -0.82      D 00
P049691        1997 Niger                        URBAN INFRAS. REHAB.                      0.00      20.00         0.00       15.45      5 58      4.16
Total:        0.00     245.50        0.00      141.44     56.11       7.84
NIGER
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                         IFC
FY Approval               Company                                   Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                  0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                       Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                     0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
- 51 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGER: Agro-pastoral Export Promotion Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Saharan.      Low-                     .-        __
fiber     Aftica   incgmq        Development diamond'
Portuletion mid-vest (rnillionsl  10 1      825       35Th                   ~~~~Life expectancy
GN P ne-t c.anita tAtlas method. USSI                      190         43        60
(GNP (Atlas method IISS billions)                           I9         304     I, 144
Averaoe. anno,sl prowth. 1902-9.8
Ponr,lation 1%)                                             34         91)6       1 7
Labor force (%lI                                            31I        2A6        1.9      GNP                                  Gross
Mott recent estimate (latest vota avIabe 1992.98                                           pe                                 prnmay
,aravails                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~capita                enrmllmont
Povertv /% of vo0u/atio& be/ow rrationa/ ooverfv finoe/     83
tJrban nonuilation t% of total Dooulationl90 )l                                    3
I ife PYnectannv at birth (years):                           47         51         83
Infant mortalitv foer 1.OOO live births)                    i1s         91         69
C~hild malnuitrition (% of nchildren under 51                43                                       Acs  osf   ae
Ae-cess to safo water (% Of DooUlat ion)                    48          47         7.4
IllitAranv MA aofoDoulation aae 184-I                       86          42         3
Gross orimnarv enrollment /% of schooJ-oeo DoDutatiofl)     29,         77        10 Da-ge                -Low-income group
FAMmal                                                    22          89~     ~ 103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS anid LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987        199?      I1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                                1~3       2.2        1.9        20
G'ross dompstic. inveslment/Gfnp                 19.7      1201       108        104
Exoorts of noods and services/GDP                19 6      21 5       16.2       18 3                       Trade
G'rossq domestic savinns/GOP                     1(1)       7 5        32         3 .3
G roqs national savions/rGOP                     1 4        .1)8       A 7        0$1
Current account ttalance/IGflP                   .7 2!      ') Q.    -in 1       'A 5
Interest oavrne-ntsMtGrP                          02        3          0 8        09         ometi                         Investment
Total debt/GOP                                   13.2      75 1       8187       s1.2      Savings
Total debt servicetexnorts,                       3 9      31 9       31 5       33 3
Present value of debt/GDP                           ..55.0:
Prese44nt vRlup of tleht(eynnrtn                             .        2 3
Indebtedness
197?7.87  1988498     1997        198 1999.3
taver,oe aooual arowthl
GOP                                     .08n      17        33           4        4
GNP ner caoita  .31)    -1 5  ~~  1           48           7               Niger    -Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services          .5.8         2      - 9 ~    8.7           1 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment(%
t% of GDP)I9
Aoricrutture                                     si a      31)3       3.901      41 4         T
Indttsl;rv                                       14 0      193        18 0       17 0      e0
Manufacttirina                                  SI3       8 ,4        88         8 2      30]
Services..                                       34 2      44 3       44 0       41 8
Private coosiimot joe  75 7     80 9        83 1       83 9     -30 r- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3    9 4W 96   97   98
Geaneral novernmenl consunmotion                 14 3      11 8       13 7       12 7                   _GDI         -0GOP
imoorts of coods and services                    29.3     28.0        23.8       23.4      -
(averaae annual crowth)1977-87  1988-98                   1997       1 998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
AoriculturL                                       0.8       2.3        0.8       18.1      so5
lndtissrv                                         30        1 4        4 1        2 5      40
Manufacturina                                             2.1        4.7         2.5
qervices..                                       -2 8       0 7        4 2        2 4      20      ~s
Private consu motion                              4.7       3.3        0.2        9.8       O.
Genreral onvern ment consasmotion                -4 3      -01)       25 4        0 7              93    949                97     8
G'ross domestic investment                      -10 2      -1 A)      15 7        4        20
mnoots of noods; and services                   -O 7        3 5        4 7        886                     Exports    -    lwiports
Gross national oroduclr                           -5        1 4        3 4        1)4
Note: 1998 diata are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. It data are missina. the diamond will
he. incornnipel
-52-



Niczer
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                         40 -
Consumer prices                                ..       ..       2.9       3.0     2
Implicit GDP deflator                        15.7      5.6       3.0       2.9    20
Government finance                                                                  0
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                                             94   95   96   97   98
Current revenue                              24.3     11.9      10.1      11.3    20
Current budget balance                       -7.9      0.2      -0.3       1.1                  GDP deflator    Q  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -19.6    -8.8       -5.5      -4.2
TRADE
(US$ rnllions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          197      412        271      298    soo
Uranium                                              289       131       130
Livestock                                             43        40        49    400
Manufactures                                                                     30
Total imports (ciaf                            ..    444         376      422     200*
Food                                         ..       21        27        36
Fuel and energy                               ..      19        28        23     100
Capital goods                                         99        68        87      o
ExDort orice index (1995=100)                  ..      82         96       98
Imoort Drice index (1995=100)                   .      53        113      111                *Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    155          85       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                223      481        302      333       o -      am
Imports of goods and services                371      378       442       478          92  93
Resource balance                            -148      103       -140     -145       s.
Net income                                     3  24  -25  -27                                 p.
Net current transfers                         53                 -22       -22    -10
Current account balance                       -93     127       -187      -195    -15
Financing items (net)                         41    -127         166      179
Changes in net reserves                       52        0         21       16    -20
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS mi//ions)         0        0         92       94
Conversion rate (DEC. /oca/UUSS)            245.7   300.5      583.7    589.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(USS millionsl                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         170    1,624      1,644     1,662
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0                     G:so
IDA                                         28      273       625       687              F 96          _                l
Total debt service                              9     161         98      114
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                          0        3          9        5                                     3: 687 
Composition of net resource flows                                                    E: 451 A
Official grants                             35      142        112
Official creditors                          25      133         74       52
Private creditors                           -3       12
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..         0        1
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        0                 0:262        C: 76
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       86         50      111      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                6       66         50       50      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         0        1          5        3      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    6       66        46        48
Interest payments                            0        3          5        3
Net transfers                                6       63        41        45
Development Economics
- 53 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Preamble
With its fragile natural resource base, an increasing population and poor farming practices, resource
degradation is accelerating. The population is relatively dense, and with a growth rate of 3.4 percent per
annum, the demand for land and for both renewable and non-renewable resources is taking a heavy toll on
the country's natural resource base resulting in the potential degradation of the physical environment. The
situation has subjected Niger to a potential ecological and socio-economic crisis in the past two decades
which has led to a severe land degradation and massive migration of its rural population to the cities and
urban centers, and also to the neighboring humid West African countries.
Natural resource degradation is being accelerated by the pressure from the rain-fed and irrigated farming in
the dry and semi-humid areas, combined with itinerant pastoral practices from the degraded region in the
northern part of the country, and by the incessant migration. Agricultural activities have led to soil
degradation; ground water pollution; over-exploitation of the unconfined, water table aquifers; flora-fauna
reduction; and the degradation of the populations' health conditions.
To reverse this situation and help arrest the degradation of this fragile natural resource base, the
Government of Niger, has developed and adopted guidelines for the environmental impact assessment,
derived from the National Environment Plan for Sustainable Development completed in 1998 in order to
protect, control, enforce and monitor the use of the country's poor natural resources.
The Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project (APEPP) will engender an intensive post-farm and farm
production activities for export crops which will have some repercussions on the fragile ecosystem of the
country. The implementation of part of the project's activity may lead to the following impacts:
* surface water withdrawals;
*   ground water depletion, notably, through boreholes in shallow aquifers;
*   destruction of the vegetation cover in the Niger river valley area;
* digging of irrigation drainage canals which could contribute to salinity of the soil, as well as soil
erosion;
*   use of agrochemicals such as fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides which could impact negatively the
soil fertility;
*   concentration of population which could put damaging pressure on the natural resource base, including
the flora and fauna;
*   increase of the pastoral activities may lead to desertification and destruction of the rare vegetation of
the country
*   increasing slaughter activities are also predictable and may give rise to smell and odor problems,
particularly in Niamey's slaughter site.
The natural resource base of the southern zone is already being impacted negatively due to the intensive
exploitation of soil, water and vegetation cover through over-population because the production potential of
this region is the highest in the country. The capacity to contain this over-exploitation of the natural
resources of the region has been considerably reduced with the risk of water depletion and soil erosion
- 54 -



remaining extremely high.
Conversely, the northern zone in general is suffering mostly from wind erosion problems. For instance, the
wind erosion on the sandy soils causes crop losses, reduction in fertility and removal of fine soil fractions.
Several factors favor the occurrence of wind erosion in Niger, i.e. increasing cultivation of marginal areas
and overgrazing. Also, removal of trees and shrubs, as well as the occurrence of droughts, all contribute to
the loss of soil cover. Texture and climatic conditions favor rapid surface drying which makes it easier for
erosive forces to translocate soil material. Large planting distances for millet and slow crop establishment
increase the damaging effects of wind and wind-blown soil.
To increase the sustainability of APEPP's impact and avoid the degradation of the physical and social
environment, in particular the soils, water resources and the vegetation of this fragile ecological system, it
is envisaged to set up on a sub projects basis at the early stages of the site preparation, preventive
mitigation measures accordingly. As a result, an environmental assessment (EA) has been conducted as
part of the APEPP. The EA complies directly with the World Bank 's directives, in particular the
safeguard policies OP/BP/GP 4.01 and its Annex C: Environmental Mitigation Plan.
Statutory Framework
The Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project is a direct fit into the overall framework of the
agricultural policy and the natural resources management policies of the environment department set up by
the Government of Niger and the donors partners and embodied in those major undertakings:
* The National Environmental Plan for Sustainable Development;
* Environmental Impact Assessment Bill (1997) to be adopted;
o   The Rural Development Bill (1998);
*  The National Action Plan to combat desertification;
*  The National Development Strategy and the Action Plan for Biodiversity; and
*   The Land Tenure Bill.
Niger has also signed the following international agreements: party to: Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Nuclear Test Ban,
Ozone Layer Protection, Wetlands, signed, but not ratified: Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Law of the
Sea.
Probable Impacts of the Project
In general, the project would engender changes on the ecological systems and these changes are bound to
affect the fragile vegetation cover, soil fertility, the ground water and the surface water.
Probable Positive Impacts of the Project
The environmental assessment indicated that the impact of APEPP on the natural resource base, as well as,
the social and economic fabric is globally positive. It will contribute to the maintenance of the social
equilibrium of the populations in the regions by maintaining the equilibrium of the ecosystem through the
amelioration of the quality of life of the people. The creation of employment for the economically active
would reduce the rural exodus and improve the quality of life of both males and females.
Increase in export crops and livestock farms will reinforce the production capacity of the exporters, and
improve the quality of the overall export products. This would eventually have significant positive impact
- 55 -



at the national level, as well as, lead to potential financial benefits and appreciation in the improvements of
the living standards in the country. The gain from the exports will reinforce the economy and the positive
impacts will benefit nationally the producers/exporters.
The success of the project would be tested by the alleviation of the poverty and the increase of private
sector participation in the delivery of agricultural and livestock production services. The project will
positively impact farmers, both small-holders and large enterprises, in a better position to respond to
market incentives and improve the management of their farm business and incomes.
The Probable Negative Impacts of the Project
Potential negative impacts due to the project may occur on the physical environment, as well as, on the
socio-economics of the country. Intervention to protect the environment and ensure sustainable development
pattern of the private sector must recognize the impacts and put in place measures to prevent them.
The presence of drainage canals in the crop production and livestock raising areas of the project could
produce negative impacts from water related diseases. Water related diseases are important in areas where
surface water are to be used, mainly in the Niger region. Where there is poor water management malaria
and bilharzia incidences may increase, and contamination of waters by fertilizers and pesticides can pose
major threats to the population. Over-use of fertilizers and pesticides and poor drainage may affect the soil
erosion, and vegetative covers can be affected as well. Potential negative impact from pollution exists in
areas where water is withdrawn in large quantities from the phreatic aquifers that may result in droughts.
Undertaking the crop production and related activities without a sound natural resources renewal measures
will undoubtedly lead to an irreversible, disruptive ecosystem. The affected population could be exposed to
several risks, such as health and social crisis, and even in the short term to a decrease of life standards, if
no integrated measures of protection and improvement are taken to prevent the immediate effects on the
physical environment.
The degradation of the land and the vegetation cover could lead to the reduction of productivity, increase
the conflict between farmers and stock breeders, and accelerate the intensive over-use of fertilizers.
At the export level, the search for quality products will lead, on one hand, to the increase in the quantitative
use of agro-chemicals for treatment during cropping, packaging, and storage, and on the other hand, to an
increase of road and traffic. As a result, negative impacts may occur from road traffic accidents, and from
contamination of groundwater as a result of pesticide misuse and over-use.
Other possible negative impacts are could be decrease in fertility of the soils, salinity increase in the soil
due to mis-use of irrigation, water pollution and contamination of pristine sources, and transportation
related activities, especially, in the intensive irrigation-related cropping areas. Degradation of the vegetation
is more of a threat in the downstream of Niger River.
At the institutional level, if the rules and preventive measures are not clearly defined to enable the public
sector play its new role of facilitator, the implementation of the project by the private sector can lead to a
conflict between the two sectors which could hamper the overall success.
Mitigation Measures
The mitigation plan, which is in conformity with the World Bank's operational directives and its safeguard
- 56 -



policies, attempts to put in place the required mechanisms to control the effects of the project on the natural
environment. It is envisaged to carry out an inventory of the natural resources prior to the implementation
of the APEPP and to establish a monitoring and surveillance mechanism for the rehabilitation and
management of the perimeters, including the crop production and complimentary commercial activities at
specific sites.
The particular measures advocated within the framework of the project are the organization of the
population which will directly or indirectly be affected by the execution of the project. In order to ensure
that the recommendations of the assessment are carried out, and subsequent mitigation measures are
implemented, it is envisaged that environmental audits are carried out, including pest management activities
and evaluation of the slaughter houses and sites. The audits should be supported by training programs in
the management of all environmental issues generated by the project.
The mitigation measures should include:
*   standard techniques to prevent or control land degradation and soil erosion;
*   minimization or elimination of agrochemical contamination;
*   minimize desertification combined with effective and appropriate irrigation development; and
*   enhancement of information, education and communication (IEC) and strong emphasis on information
campaign for pest fair usage and water resources protection.
As one of the most important concerns is the potential negative impact of water-related diseases on the
riparian population, protection measures to minimize such risks is very important. The type of crops to be
cultivated will be another indicator to predict the possible trend of the diseases at the specific sites. Most
of the project areas have little preventive measures to mitigate health risks.
It is important that pest usage awareness campaign and management component based on farmers
involvement be developed to ensure better organization of the export activities to the affected farmers. A
pest management training component and environmental auditing of slaughter houses should be set up
before any further development of the project activities.
In the areas where the association of farmers will be given further assistance to intensify production, a
monitoring protocol should be developed for ground water quality and soil salinization, particularly in the
Southern areas. Up to date geographical information system (GIS) should be developed for further survey
to subsequently quantify the natural resources available in the areas by national research institutes, in
collaboration with AGRHYMET which should undertake a detailed desk and field inventory study of each
site.
For the implementation of these measures, there is a need for a collaborative effort between the project
management, farmers and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), specialized local firms and public
extension services, as well as, international specialists to help enhance the crops production and livestock
raising activities, and on exporter awareness and knowledge on how to sustain the environment in the
project zones for the affected populations.
*   The suggested institutions responsible of the implementation of the above activities are:
*   The project unit which will finance and oversee the monitoring and follow the implementation of the
mitigation measures;
*   The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock;
*   the Ministry of Hydraulic and Environment which will enforce the monitoring of facilities;
*   the public works enterprises which will build the infrastructures; and
- 57 -



* specialized firms, both local and international, in crop and livestock development and management to
design the system and analyze the data. These firms can also assist the administration and
producers/exporters in conducting sound environmental management practices.
Environmental Monitoring
The environmental monitoring of the project must be coordinated at the central level by the Project Unit and
the Ministry of Hydraulic and Environment in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock. At the local level, it is envisaged to involve the services of specialized firms, as well as, the
services of the farmers and the population at large. If the Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project is to
be sustainable, environmental monitoring must be integral to the management process.
The environmental monitoring component should play an important role in identifying the major
environmental and human problems, and verify that the recommendations of the EA have been carried out.
In the medium and long term, the evaluations would reduce the unpredictable impacts of the project on the
environment by enabling the management to propose new measures, revisiting earlier recommendations and
designing new directions to minimize unanticipated negative impacts.
The primary concern should be the identification, at the earliest stages of project implementation and on a
continuous basis, of any contamination of the export products and pollution of the water resources,
degradation of the soils, increase in the risks of diseases and the social tension between the various players
of the project notably the farmers, investors, herders, and the public and private sector.
The monitoring of all the above activities should be carried out by recognized specialized finns and
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) who have experience in export production management projects
and are familiar with the overall natural resources and land use activities. These institutions should operate
in collaboration with specialized ministries. The monitoring project should be allocated a reasonable
annual amount of funding for an effective implementation, according to the draft terms of reference and the
prepared budget (TORS 4) of about eighty five thousand dollars (USD 85000).
Recommendations
The most important concern in agricultural activities in a Sahel country like Niger is the negative impacts
of water-related diseases, soil degradation and water contamination and its over exploitation. There is a
weak institutional link between existing crop and livestock production schemes and preventive public
health. Therefore, it is recommended that the producers and their employees be involved in a safe use of
agrochemicals.
A natural resource inventory or update of existing one and water resource management component will be
required in the early planning stages of the crop production to ensure that appropriate preventive measures
can be taken in a timely manner.
It is recommended that the Government of Niger support the reinforcement and the management of the
agrochemical management, ground water, surface water and soil quality monitoring components, including:
*   pest management activities of intensive production areas for export crops;
* auditing of slaughter sites; and
* overhaul of the natural resource management at each production sites and at major areas of activities of
the project.
- 58 -



The project should benefit from detailed studies of the anticipated sites prior to actual development by
carrying out environmental audits at the major slaughter sites of the country, as well as, detailed inventory
of the natural resources, and evaluation of the immediate effects of the pesticides usage in existing crop
production zones.
In the area where the association of farmers will be given further assistance to intensify production, a
ground water quality and soil salinization monitoring system should be set up, particularly in the Southern
areas. Up to date geographical information system (GIS) should be developed for further survey to
subsequently quantify the natural resources available in the areas by national research institutes in
collaboration with AGRHYMET which should undertake a detailed desk and field inventory study of each
site.
At the local level, it is recommended that the services of specialized firms and non-govermnental
organizations (NGOs) experienced in sustainable and environmental monitoring be used as an integral part
of the management process. This will also permit the reinforcement of the national capacity in the crop
production and commercial activities. The local firm or NGOs seem to be the best actors. They will, in
collaboration with the project, carry out case by case studies on the production and management aspects.
Likewise, there should be a strong support for the water resources protection in the affected zones to
provide the leadership in sound natural resources management. The association of farmers groups may
provide innovative techniques for more effective management that may prove useful for the private
exporters and agro-pastoral processing activities. Taking the lead role by the farmers group may also
encourage the application of conservation measures to reduce any unexpected negative impact on the
natural and social environment.
It is recommended that a control system be established to monitor the export products quality, on one hand
and on the other hand, the quality of the water resources and soils, especially in the areas which will utilize
surface water and ground water. This will be an effective way of protecting the environment for a better
poverty alleviation project.
The specialized firms and NGOs with experience in farm production activities will prove to be valuable for
the reduction of the risk of contamination in the areas of intervention where pest and water usage risks are
high. This type of intervention would facilitate the project sustainability in such zones.
- 59 -






NIGER                                                    0                           .15'..                                                                    BRD 30781
NIGER                                                                                                                                                                 LIi-Y
AGRO-PASTORAL EXPORT PROMOTION PROJECT                                                                                                             .---'--,                    --   --s                  LIBYA
PROJET DE PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS AGRO-PASTORALES                                                                 ;              ,K
LAND USE SYSTEMS AND  PROJECT MAIN  SITES                                            .                          I .                                     --
SYSTEMES AGRAIRES ET ZONES D'INTERVENTION                                                    -
I PASTORAL SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                       '                   PAVED ROADS
SYSTEME PASTORAL (D-HIVERAGE ET PERMANENT)                                              \                      P 1                                                    I                   RT PAVED ROADSN E
IX   IRIVER VALLEY SYSTEM                                                                                  Y-  EARTH ROADS
SYSTEME DE LA VALLEE DU FLEUVE                                                     C          ;                                                                       |                   ROUTES EN TERRE
DALLOL SYSTEM                                                                                     ~~RVR
SYSTEME DES DALLOLS                                                                                                                                                                       PELEUVES
ADER-DOUTCHI MAGGIO-TARBA SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                          VILLES SELECTIONNEES
W11 1 1iTFTl  SYSTEME ADER-DOUTCHI MAGGIO-TARBA                                                                                                                                                    DTRICT CAPITALS
CHEF-LIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT
GOULLI SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                         ®     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
_    SYSTEME DES GOULBIS                                         /+,                                                                                                                      CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT
2C             F      EASTLEN PLAINS SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                               *      NATIONAL CAPITAL
SYSTEME DES PLAINES DE LEST                                   /                                                     IB I L M A                                                            CAPITAENATIONALE         20-
DUNE SYSTEM                                                                            A R l   T                                                                                -------- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
^    j SYSTEME DUNAIRE  /,          V                                                                                               I             LIMITE D'ARRONDISSEMENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMTED'RRODISEEN
SY STE ME DUNAIRE
''"   SYSTEME DES PLATEAUX  -    -- -                            A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~    F  Z                                                  DEPAETMEI~~~~~~~TDEPRT UET DBU RIESE
SYMHIGH, PLAINS SYSTEM                                                                                           A    G    AID       Z                                                             MITE DE DEPARTEMENT
SYSTEME DES PLATEAUX~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~- -     INTERNATIONAL BUDRE
MAINE-SOROA BASIN SYSTEM                                                                                                                  0 i                                             FRONIIERES INTERNATIONALLS
SYSTEME DES CURVETTES DE MAINE-SOROA                                 A
I!                                                                                                                            I              CHAD~~~~~~~~ IB
i    i   - ,.    .   .  i  AFonbi                      !            C H A D
!   ~~~~~~~~~---------------   =\--------
,'T CIc  H rr TI E oI, inER                            I  . E
M A L I        :                        TCHIN-    \                   ;     Agade                                                                                    /10   1.5  200
TABARADENE         >     E  -                , -                                        ,                                                            RIL0MLTER      0
g   ~ TAHOUJAT,lnToburadellrir   J/]                     to -                                       DIFFA
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h b-.i. jj. ' .,----t ,,-n,
N     G  U I M I    */-d -y mfnat6 ns
/   -'  _> '  °                  °                                      IsAbrulak,> -: / I N             / E   R                                                                   thep arto f
0  FIt   LEE   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAHo  '~~G0                                                      
oIE-,n,  1EEY   'Ao  IL                RAKC)~O   ATLPp                                                          Ni0
B.d,   1       nde.1NTIVSO0A
"~~~~~~46S                                                  OITTOPM             ETkUJ         .                                                            o\.-y               * ML
-                                                                                                               \ ~~~~~~~~~~'.~~~~~---- ~~~~~~~AALG NI GEA         C A  
S 0 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~PE~~~~                                                                                                                                        -\ -~~~-R
MALI~~~~~/CETA
JR0A   ~~~~~~         ~MRA TLT



