                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35833

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (PPFI-Q1500 TF-25761 IDA-33630 TF-53113)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 7.7 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                                 FOR A

                               Niger Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project




                                              June 29, 2006




Environmental and Socially Sustainable Development 3
Country Department 14
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective April 12, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                            = US$
                                 US$ 1.00 = CFAF 542

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANIPEX  Agence Nigérienne de Promotion des Exportations
        Niger Agency for Export Promotion
APEPP   Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CRAAP   Comités Régionaux d'Appui aux Activités du Projet
        (Regional Committees for Support to Project Activities)
CSO     Comité de Suivi et Orientation (Steering Committee)
CTR     Cellule Technique de Réflexion (Technical Strategy Unit)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GON     Government of Niger
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICRISAT International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA     International Development Agency
INRAN   Institut National de Recherche Agricole du Niger
        (National Agricultural Research Institute of Niger)
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV     Net Present Value
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QER     Quality at Entry
TTL     Task Team Leader
WAEMU   West African Economic and Monetary Union



                           Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director:     Madani M. Tall
                          Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Remi Kini

                                            NIGER
                        Niger Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              32
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            37

Project ID: P058730                                                  Project Name: Niger Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Remi Kini                                               TL Unit: AFTS3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Niger Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project             L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1500; TF-25761;
                                                                                                     IDA-33630; TF-53113
   Country/Department: NIGER                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (83%); Central government administration (17%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (S); Trade facilitation and market access (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/10/1999                                     Effective: 03/12/2001                03/12/2001
     Appraisal: 04/17/2000                                         MTR: 10/06/2003                  10/06/2003
      Approval: 06/01/2000                                      Closing: 10/31/2005                 10/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF NIGER (GON)/MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Antoinette Sayeh
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader at ICR:             Remi Kini                                      Daniel Sellen
ICR Primary Author:             Ilhem Baghdadli and
                                Jan-Hendrik van Leeuwen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Appraisal Document states APEPP's project's development objective as: Producers
and exporters are efficiently supplying the agro-pastoral export market, reacting to market
changes, and seizing opportunities.

APEPP was introduced in the context of the steadily deteriorating economic performance of
Niger, by most measures the poorest country in the world. At the time the project was presented
to the Board, Niger's per capita GNP was less than half of what it was two decades before.
During this same period, stagnant agricultural growth and a fast-growing population had led to an
average annual decline in per capita agricultural GDP of about two percent, and an alarming
increase in the number of households lacking food security.

During the 1980s, the Government of Niger (GON) embarked on stabilization and structural
adjustment reforms in addition to agricultural sector and institutional reforms, many of which, it
was hoped, would increase exports.         Sector reforms included the abolishment of public
monopolies in agriculture, and the liberalization of marketing and pricing of agricultural products
and inputs. During the 1990s, in preparation for regional integration under the West African
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), Niger implemented a comprehensive tax reform and
reduced and simplified external trade restrictions. Moreover, the 1994 devaluation of the CFA
Franc boosted the competitiveness of several products of Niger on regional markets.
Nevertheless, agricultural exports remained weak due to major constraints in production and
marketing.

In response, the Government in 1999 adopted an "Agricultural Growth and Rural Poverty
Alleviation Strategy" which established agricultural export development as a key element of
government economic policy and specified the intensification and diversification of agricultural
production and livestock development as one of the priority areas for policy support. Meanwhile,
the Bank's 1997 CAS had stated as one of its three principal goals "the promotion of open
economic policies and regional linkages to take advantage of external growth opportunities."

APEPP was designed within this economic and strategic context to respond to the need for
increased agricultural and livestock exports by giving private sector enterprises and producers the
tools for increased production and marketing capability. The project intended to build technical,
organizational, and institutional capacity in businesses, professional organizations, and producer
groups so that they would take advantage of opportunities in regional and international markets.
To this end the project included provisions for business counseling and training, as well as applied
market and technological research, and assistance in acquiring financing and in building savings
and credit associations for producer groups. The core of the project was a matching grant fund
which provided grant assistance to associations of producers and exporters on a demand-driven
basis.

APEPP's project development objective clearly reflected both the GON's and the Bank's
priorities for alleviation of rural poverty through the development of agro-pastoral exports.
During project preparation, the preparation team had been under considerable pressure to broaden



                                                - 2 -

the scope of the project, notably by including a rural finance component but instead, the team
reached agreement with the GON to keep the project focused on technical assistance and the
alleviation of physical bottlenecks. As such, the project design was not overly complex and did
not call for a broad range of policy improvements to be implemented or institutions to be
involved. Nevertheless, the innovative aspect of the matching grant fund, which was to provide
grant financing not only for technical assistance but also for physical investments, and the
substantial implementation risks it presented, were not clearly understood at the time.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Program objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
APEPP supported four components: trade promotion and information services; institutional
support to producer and exporter organizations; an export promotion grant facility; and project
management (from the PAD):

Component 1:Trade Promotion and Information Services (US$2.10 million, 20.3 % of Bank
financing)

This component supported activities aimed at addressing the poor quality, quantity, and
availability of data and information on production, prices, exports, and other market conditions.
It was to finance a cluster of activities including product and market identification and
development, trade information services, specialized support services on procedures, product
quality and packaging, applied research, promotional activities abroad, and a project web site.

Targeted output: At the end of the project, producers, exporters, and importers of Niger's
agro-pastoral products were to have a better knowledge of market opportunities and be provided
with quality information and services with which to take advantage of these opportunities.

Component 2: Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter Organizations (US$1.3
million, 12.6 % of Bank financing)

This component was aimed at organizing producers and exporters and at improving the ability of
stakeholders to have a voice in the direction and management of the sector. It also intended to
encourage the formation of savings and credit services if so desired by the organizations. The
component was to provide a variety of support and advisory services to existing and potential
organizations, including legal advice, internal organization, financial and administrative
management. Support was to be provided through project specialists, consultants, seminars, and
other training fora.

Targeted output: At the end of the project, existing organizations of producers and exporters of
Niger's high-value crops and livestock products should be strengthened and new ones created.

Component 3: Export Promotion Grant Facility (US$5 million, 48.3 % of Bank financing)

This component was aimed at addressing the lack of financing in the sector, and providing the



                                               - 3 -

incentive to organize.    A demand-driven matching grant facility was made available to the
organizations assisted or formed under the second component. Organizations were to be actively
encouraged and assisted in preparing proposals based on the needs of their members. These
proposals were to be initially screened by the project's implementation unit (Unité de Gestion du
Projet - UGP), in some cases with the help of a consultant to determine the technical and
economic feasibility. Decisions on the proposals were to be made by a Steering Committee (
Comité de Suivi et d'Orientation - CSO), composed of government and private sector
representatives. Based on prior performance, subsequent proposals could be made, although the
organizations would have to assume a larger burden of the cost.

Targeted output: At the end of the project, organizations of producers and exporters should
address their collective investment needs through the matching grant facility.

Component 4: Project Management (US$1.95 million, 18.8 % of Bank financing)

This component provided the financing for a project management team composed of qualified
professionals, recruited competitively, and experienced in agricultural export and farmer
organizations.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) were meant to be a critical role of the
management team, as well as the assessments of matching grant investments and environmental
monitoring.

Targeted output: The project implementation unit should operate on schedule, within budget, and
be focused on results.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Whilst there was no formal Quality at Entry (QAE) review by QAG, the quality at entry is rated
Unsatisfactory due to significant shortcomings in the quality of the project design which in turn,
reflected an inadequate awareness of the significant implementation risks.

The project underwent a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) on February 10, 2000 which raised
a broad range of issues of concern. The QER panel argued that the project development objective
needed to be narrowed by concentrating on a specific group of products. The panel questioned
whether the project was designed in a way that would help address the most critical constraints in
the export sector and also underlined that the advisory services were too supply-driven.

The panel identified significant weaknesses in the analysis of the environmental impact of the
project and safeguard compliance. It pointed out that the appraisal document included only a very
general environmental analysis, limited mitigation measures and inadequate guidance on
responsibilities, scheduling costs and procedures for processing projects.

The QER further underlined that the project monitoring system was one of the weakest aspects of
the project design. The panel emphasized the need for a quantification of project objectives and
the necessity to undertake a baseline study for agro-pastoral exports in Niger. It was pointed out
that the measurement of progress towards the achievement of the development objective would


                                                - 4 -

be difficult due to the lack of precisely defined objectives and the absence of concrete tools with
which to monitor agro-pastoral exports. Incidentally, this issue was again highlighted during the
mid-term review which commented on the absence of critical impact indicators and a clear agenda
for the phased achievement of the development objective.

Finally, the QER panel called attention to the very ambitious nature of the terms of reference for
the CSO and questioned whether the local capacity to match these needs existed and if not,
whether this capacity could be built within a reasonable timeframe. The team concluded that the
difficulty in recruiting local project management and securing implementation capacity constituted
by far the biggest risk for this project.

Following the QER, the project design team made substantial changes, in particular by specifying
that project support would concentrate on a limited number of high-value products for which a
current or potential market exists (onions, souchet, sesame, cowpeas, gum Arabic, livestock,
meat, and hides and skins), and by adopting a more demand-driven approach towards advisory
services.   However, the project implementation arrangements were kept unchanged, and no
substantial changes were made in the M&E approach.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rating:                                  Unsatisfactory

The mid-term evaluation concluded that the indicators for measuring the achievement of the PDO
were inadequate and recommended that they be made more specific and measurable.                The
indicators were subsequently amended as follows:

Project Development Original            Outcome/Impact Revised Indicators, following
Objective                  Indicators                      Mid-term Evaluation
Producers and exporters l At least 80% of grant            l Project beneficiaries (through
are efficiently supplying      investments successfully       sub-projects and marketing
the agro-pastoral export       meet market needs of the       promotion) increase their
market,     reacting    to     organizations                  overall production and exports
market    changes,     and l At least 50% of external         of their products by at least
seizing opportunities          market trends recognized       5% per year
                               by project are taken into   l Transport costs to the final
                               consideration by the           export destinations have
                               organizations in their         decreased by at least 20% by
                               decision making process        project completion (compared
                            l At least 20% reduction in       to a 2003 reference base)
                               marketing costs for project
                               clients

Although the revised indicators were indeed more specific and measurable, the absence of an
effective M&E system did not permit an objective verification of their achievement. Thus there is
no explicit data on the achievement or not of these revised objectives. Nevertheless, available



                                                  - 5 -

evidence would indicate that none of these indicators have actually been achieved.

Although the PDO was and remains highly relevant in the context of Niger, and the three
components were necessary and should have been sufficient to achieve a measurable impact,
significant shortcomings in project design and implementation and, to a lesser extend,
unanticipated changes in key export markets, resulted in an outcome that remained far below
potential.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1:                          Trade Promotion and Information Services

Estimated Cost at Appraisal:          US$2.10 million
Actual Disbursement:                  US$1.24 million
Rating:                               Satisfactory

The component succeeded in improving the availability and quality of information on products
and market opportunities.     It also raised the awareness of the factors that contribute to a
successful export performance. Specific outputs included:

Trade was actively promoted. Trade promotion events were sponsored and prospective buyers
were invited to visit Niger. APEPP provided financial support to selected operators enabling their
participation in trade fairs where they could promote their products and learn about business
opportunities. A series of product studies were commissioned and distributed to promote Niger's
agro-pastoral products.

Information services were strengthened. A system of data collection and dissemination was set
up through national and international partnerships, which granted regular access to information on
the seven targeted commodity chains. Data collection included information on market prices and
opportunities, general market as well as supply and demand trends. Information was disseminated
through several periodic publications (the weekly Sahel dimanche, the monthly Flash-Export, and
the quarterly l'Exportateur, the latter two published by the project), and a project website. The
project website was designed and launched in 2002 but suffered from technical and quality
problems. The site experienced frequent shut-downs and the information was only available in
French whereas many countries in the sub-region are not french-speaking. The site was visited
1,500 times per year, compared to a target of 5,000 visits per year. A freight exchange mechanism
was created to provide information on available transport services and support was provided for
the establishment of the executive secretariat for the regional observatory of onions. Finally, a
methodology was developed and equipment provided to facilitate the conduct of the upcoming
livestock census.

The need to enhance quality was emphasized. A study was commissioned to explore means to
improve the quality of the main agro-pastoral products in Niger. Quality norms were defined for
eight products and are being prepared for five additional products.

Market research was performed. To explore export possibilities in the sub-region, APEPP
sponsored a number of studies on the potential for agro-pastoral exports to Nigeria, Benin, Togo,


                                               - 6 -

Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire, and action plans were developed to strengthen the existing supply
chains.

Component 2:                           Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter
                                       Organizations

Estimated Cost at Appraisal:           US$1.30 million
Actual Disbursement:                   US$1.18 million
Rating:                                Unsatisfactory

The component supported the creation of 7 organizations with national coverage (specializing in
the 7 target products of the project), and 50 regional organizations. The 50 regional organizations
include 1,200 sub-organizations and their membership totals 46,052 members. Of the 50 regional
organizations only 23 can be considered operational in that they hold regular meetings and keep
records; membership contributions are minimal and, despite extensive capacity building support,
there is a great deal of confusion about the role of these organizations. As the 2005 impact
evaluation pointed out, these organizations are likely to remain weak as long as the members are
not convinced of the benefits that their adherence can produce. To create an awareness that the
potential benefits of membership go well beyond gaining access to project funds will require much
more capacity building support than the project has been able to provide.

The component co-financed a study together with Canada and Tunisia which led to the creation in
2004 of ANIPEX (Agence Nigérienne pour la Promotion des Exportations), a private sector
export promotion agency which includes 255 members. Under the component this agency has
received support for training and capacity building services. Nevertheless, considerable additional
institutional strengthening will be required for the agency to become sustainable.

Component 3:                           Export Promotion Grant Facility

Estimated Cost at Appraisal:           US$5.00 million
Actual Disbursement:                   US$3.95 million
Rating:                                Marginally Satisfactory

Under this component a total of 387 requests for grant support were formally submitted, out of
which 104 were approved, leading to 98 grant agreements. At project completion, 89 projects
had been executed, the remainder being under implementation.            Grant sizes ranged from
US$2,200 to close to US$100,000 with an average grant size of US$40,000. Less than 5% of
total grant support was for technical assistance, the remainder for physical investments which
explains the relatively large average grant size. The average subsidy rate was 66%, the remainder
contributed by the beneficiaries. The distribution of grant agreements per type of beneficiary was
as follows:




                                                  - 7 -

    Type of Beneficiary Organization                     % of Grant Agreements
Associations                                                                            65%
Enterprises                                                                             20%
GIE                                                                                     12%
Cooperatives                                                                             3%

The distribution of grant support per sub-sector was as follows:

                 Sub-sector                             % of Total Grant Support
Livestock/Meat                                                                       44.7%
Onions                                                                               13.3%
Cowpeas                                                                              11.6%
Gum Arabic                                                                             9.3%
Sesame                                                                                 7.3%
Hides/skins                                                                            6.8%
Souchet                                                                                5.1%
Other                                                                                  1.9%

And the distribution of grant support per type of activity was as follows:



              Type of Activity                          % of Total Grant Support
Production Increase                                                                  56.4%
Marketing Infrastructure                                                             15.5%
Processing Facilities                                                                  8.7%
Product Improvement                                                                    8.5%
Storage Facilities                                                                     6.4%
Commercial Travel and Support Services                                                 4.5%

The mid-term evaluation concluded that, although it was too early to assess any overall impact,
too much grant support went towards the increase of production facilities, which in a number of
cases had actually led to a decrease in revenues as the producers had not been able to establish
export market linkages.     The evaluation team also observed that proposals submitted by
enterprises and cooperatives that were already active in the sub-sector had the highest potential of
resulting in increased export revenues. Nevertheless, these types of proposals represented less
than 25% of total proposals approved which led to the conclusion that grants were being
allocated without any strategic framework for export development.

Although the mid-term evaluation formulated a number of recommendations to improve the
process of grant allocation with an eye towards achieving greater impact, the final statistics
indicate that grant allocation did not change substantially. Which leads to the question: what
impact did this component actually achieve?



                                               - 8 -

Information provided by some of the more established firms that benefited from project financing
does indicate that the project had the potential to have a large impact on revenues. The table
below does suggest that these firms benefited very much from the project support, as a result of
project financing of some storage infrastructure, processing equipment, training of some of the
actors and information provided on markets. Support for production in the onion subsector also
led to an increase in production and sales. Thus businesses dealing in hides and skins, souchet,
onions had significant increases in their turnover. Discussions during the ICR review mission
confirmed that some of these firms have been able to reinvest in their enterprises as a result of
their increased revenues.     The impact however on total exports of the country was quite
negligible. The data also does not permit any detailed analyses on impact on the poor except for
the Togone women's cooperative and possibly some of the poorer members of the Onion
cooperatives cited below in the Table below.

Evolution of Business Turnover for a few Beneficiary Firms (CFAF million)

                                 Sub-Sector               2001        2002         2003        2004
    Tannerie Mlam Yaro           Hides/Skins              500.8       653.2      1067.0       1003.0
    Ets. Hatimou                 Souchet                  361.0       450.0       500.0            -
    CCNI                         Souchet                    60.9      235.0       488.7            -
    SOCOPAP                      Niébé                    386.7       377.4        52.4        203.9
    Ramubep                      Livestock                     -    3125.0       5140.0            -
    SNCPV                        Niébé                         -           -      144.0        106.0
    UCMA                         Onions                   125.5       312.0       627.6            -
    UCMT                         Onions                  1012.5     1710.0       2205.0        548.0
    Togone Women's Group         Niébé                      13.7       13.7        27.3            -
    Coop de Niébé                Niébé                         -         3.0       18.0            -
    Coop Tatalin/Aziki           Hides/Skins                   -           -      459.0        357.0
    Maradi


As was pointed out before, it is unfortunate that the design did not establish clear performance
indicators and that there was no effective M&E system. The problem is particularly pronounced
in this component where none of the performance indicators were designed to measure actual
output, but rather to assess the quality of the process. While the component permitted to provide
some financing for a number of activities as indicated above, there is no clear evidence that this
led to an increase in Nigerien Exports or even the revenues of the majority of exporters.
Measured by the indicators followed by the project, the component targeted the right subsectors,
financed programs to deal with some of the key constraints (production, infrastructure, equipment
for irrigation and for processing, etc.), and tried to help key associations and enterprises involved
in exports in Niger. However, since this is the core component of an export development project,
some form of measuring of actual performance in terms of overall increase in export revenues
should have been included. Measured by such an indicator, it is not clear that the component
achieved such an objective and hence the outcome of the component is far less conclusive.



                                                  - 9 -

While the figures in the table above indicate that some beneficiary firms were able to increase their
turnover, the final impact evaluation of the project did not attempt, let alone succeed, to establish
a direct causal link between grant support and improved performance by the targeted sub-sectors.
The anecdotal evidence part of which is captured in the above table, suggests that at least a small
number of beneficiary companies have seen their revenues increase during the life of the project
and that project support may have contributed to this improved performance. This would point at
the potential for improving the performance of the entire sub-sectors, provided project support
would have been allocated within a coherent strategy to maximize performance of each
sub-sector. This however, was not the case.

Absent an effective M&E system, we have only the national trade statistics ­ notoriously
unreliable ­ to go by and these indicate that export revenues from the targeted sub-sectors have
remained stagnant.

Therefore the conclusion should be that, although there are indications that this component could
have achieved significant impact, its actual performance was far below potential and hence, at best
Marginally Satisfactory

Component 4:                          Project Management

Estimated Cost at Appraisal:          US$1.95 million
Actual Disbursement:                  US$3.87 million
Rating:                               Unsatisfactory


The workload needed to manage the project in a sound manner was largely underestimated at
appraisal. The management of the Export Promotion Grant Facility in particular, proved to be
much more complex than anticipated. Project design called for all proposals to be submitted
directly to the UGP, which might call upon consultants for ad-hoc support. The UGP received
hundreds of proposals but did not actually have the capacity to properly analyze all of them,
especially given the fact that a significant portion of these proposals came from illiterate
promoters, with possibly good projects but limited means to show whether they are bankable.
The result was an unacceptably high proposal rejection rate. To better assist producers in the
proposal preparation process, the UGP suggested, and the Bank approved, the creation of
regional committees meant to support the UGP (Comités Régionaux d'Appui aux Activités du
Projet ­ CRAA/P).       CRAA/Ps' role consisted of examining and pre-screening sub-project
proposals and identifying potential shortcomings early on. When needed, they were to conduct
field missions to provide support and validate the declarations contained in the proposals. As a
result, the screening process became more efficient and the rejection rate declined.

Projects, which the CRAA/Ps considered as bankable, were submitted to the UGP and analyzed
by the national coordinator and his team. Proposals, which they considered to be bankable, were
submitted for approval to the CSO. This approval process resulted in lengthy delays in final
decision making as the CSO failed to maintain its planned meeting schedule. Over the life of the
project, the CSO held a total of 10 meetings instead of the 30 meetings planned.



                                                - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic analysis was based on a cost-benefit methodology and calculated economic and
financial returns from the project using the "with-project and without-project" criterion.
However, it can be questioned whether the cost-benefit analysis was the appropriate methodology
to assess the economic soundness of the project, as this methodology applies primarily to projects
with benefits that are measurable in monetary terms. Yet component 1 consisted of information
services and trade promotion activities, the benefits of which are difficult to quantify in monetary
terms. Similarly, the benefits of component 2, which consisted of capacity building support to
producer and exporter organizations, are difficult to quantify in monetary terms.              Finally,
component 3 was a demand-driven matching grant scheme which was meant to support producer
and exporter organizations with the potential to generate export revenues. The attribution of the
matching grants could have been based on clear-cut thresholds for Net Present Value and
Economic Rate of Return but this was not the case.                Moreover, the criteria for allocating
matching grants were also meant to satisfy social targets, such as benefiting women's groups or
other organizations of relatively poor individuals. Consequently, the cost-benefit methodology
was inappropriate for measuring the potential benefits of this component as well.                  The
cost-effectiveness methodology would have been more appropriate as it applies to projects where
benefits cannot be quantified in monetary terms.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The creation of ANIPEX is the main institutional development impact of the project. ANIPEX
was established with support from APEPP as an export promotion agency meant to consolidate
and scale up the outcomes of the project. The strength of the agency is that it is strongly rooted
in the private sector and as such, could potentially play a key role in future export development.
However, by project completion, barely one year after its creation, the agency had not yet
achieved financial sustainability. Since then, it has received additional financial support from the
Privatization and Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project (P051272).               It should be
pointed out that this support will terminate by the end of 2006, the scheduled completion date of
this project, and that without prolonged capacity building support the sustainability of the agency
will remain doubtful.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors on the project's performance has been Substantial:

l The political crisis in Côte d'Ivoire which traditionally has been a key export market for
    agro-pastoral products from Niger, significantly affected Niger's exports to this country,
    particularly in the early years of the project when exports to Côte d'Ivoire declined by as
    much as 30 %.



                                                     - 11 -

l The value of the Naira and the Cedi (the currencies of Nigeria and Ghana respectively)
    depreciated by more than 30% compared to the CFA Franc

l Domestic demand for food products increased by more than 20%, affecting the available
    surplus for exports.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The degree to which GON influenced the achievement of the project outcome and objective was
Substantial:

l Although it had been agreed during project negotiations that the project implementation
    structure would be revisited at mid-term, GON insisted that the CSO retain decision making
    authority over investment proposals, in spite of the widely recognized deficiencies of this
    structure.

l Project staff morale suffered from GON's initial refusal to review the incentive structure.

l On the plus side, the project benefited from stable macro and fiscal policies and GON's
    continuing and strong commitment to export development.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The degree to which the UGP influenced the achievement of the project outcome and objective
was Substantial:

l Inexperienced staff, and lack of internal controls resulted in a series of ineligible expenditures
    and misappropriation of funds totaling CFAF61.05 million as well as a number of delays in
    justifying expenditure.

l UGP was late in commissioning the studies of the products that had been selected to benefit
    from project support; these studies were generally of poor quality and did not provide an
    adequate base for developing an integrated export promotion strategy for the sub-sectors.

l UGP seriously underestimated the need for handholding during the preparation of sub-project
    proposals, which resulted in a reject rate of more than 70 %.

5.4 Costs and financing:

There was no significant change in the total cost of the project (see annex 2a). Nevertheless, WB
management allocated additional resources to support its task team and a Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant was obtained of US$200,000 to finance an experienced
international consultant to work with the UGP for one year to improve internal procedures and
train staff.

Actual costs by components are significantly different from the projected costs at appraisal
because the project had three reallocations of the Credit proceeds.             The agreed upon
implementation structure required continuing capacity building support throughout the duration of



                                                    - 12 -

the project and had to be reinforced by the addition of the above-mentioned CRAA/Ps which
contributed to a significant cost overrun of project management (actual costs of US$3.87 million,
versus a projected cost at appraisal of US$1.95 million). The Export Promotion Grant Facility
used fewer funds than were budgeted at appraisal (US$3.95 million disbursed, versus US$5.00
million projected at appraisal). Two principal reasons may explain this. First, the workload
needed to accompany the preparation of proposals was largely underestimated at appraisal and it
took the UGP time to acquire this capacity. Second, due to the cumbersome approval process
and the malfunctioning of the CSO, the time required to screen proposals and allocate grants was
much longer than anticipated at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The principal effect of APEPP was that it demonstrated the importance of a systematic approach
towards the development of agro-pastoral exports. A small but growing number of agro-pastoral
exporters have adopted this approach, establishing close links with the producer/suppliers,
implementing quality control systems, upgrading production and storage facilities, and researching
new market opportunities. While the demonstration effect has been positive, the process remains
very fragile with very weak export institutions. Therefore it can be concluded that the project
achievements, although far less than anticipated, are likely to be sustained only if there is some
follow up support otherwise sustainability is Unlikely.

l Sustainability of Trade Promotion and Information Services: Likely
    The project has been unable to introduce commercially viable, and hence sustainable, trade
    promotion and information services. However, the importance of obtaining adequate
    information on product specifications, market conditions and trends has been demonstrated
    and it can be expected that with the growing adoption of information technology as part of
    their management, exporters will increasingly search for this information themselves.

l Sustainability of Producer and Exporter Organizations: Unlikely
    At project completion it was concluded that out of the 57 organizations that received project
    support, only 23 were functional and out of these only a small portion would survive
    independently from the project. Potentially the most significant organization established as a
    result of APEPP, is ANIPEX but this organization will require prolonged capacity building
    support before it can be considered as sustainable.

l Sustainability of sub-projects supported by the Export Promotion Grant Facility:
    Partially Likely
    Due to deficiencies in the decision making process, only a small portion of the sub-projects
    can be expected to have a sustainable impact in terms of increased export revenues. However,
    among the latter figure a number of sub-projects, notably in the onions, souchet, and hides and
    skins sub-sectors where financial support for the upgrading of processing and storage facilities
    has resulted in a significant and sustained improved performance of at least the beneficiary
    companies, if not the entire value chains.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                  - 13 -

From the outset, it was recognized that the development of agro-pastoral exports, given their
fragile nature so far, would be a long-term process, requiring substantial and consistent outside
support. Therefore, additional financing from the Bank and/or other donors would be required to
help realize the full potential of the process that has been set in motion under APEPP. Although
GON had expressed strong interest in a follow-up project to reinforce agro-pastoral exports, a
request to this end was not submitted with the Bank until six months after project completion.
Therefore, any follow-up project, while being able to build upon the achievements under APEPP,
would have to make up for a certain amount of lost momentum.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance is rated Unsatisfactory overall.

Project preparation included a considerable amount of field work which resulted in three key
findings:

1.      A general ignorance of prices and selling opportunities placed farmers at the mercy of
undependable and often untrustworthy middlemen. Producers rarely knew the destination of their
products, and therefore responded poorly to the needs of foreign customers.
2.      Stakeholders were poorly integrated within commodity systems and because exporters
were unorganized, products were marketed without quality standards or identification of origin.
While there were some organized producer organizations (such as cooperatives) there were
virtually no organizations or mechanisms for marketing agro-pastoral products abroad.
3.      Finally, access to financing was a major constraint to development of the export sector.
There were no rural development banks and private commercial banks were generally not
interested in supplying credit for agriculture, particularly for periods of more than one year, given
that droughts create large covariant risks. Most producers and exporters have limited capital and
no collateral and because they were not organized, they were unable to pool resources to acquire
bank loans and make investments for collective benefit. Thus the decision to try to improve
agropastoral exports was very appropriate and hence the strategic relevance of the project
approach is rated Satisfactory:
4.      The project was also consistent with the priorities of GON and directly in line with the
CAS objectives. APEPP complemented other Bank projects which emphasized the reinforcement
of production capability, and built linkages with ongoing programs financed by other donors.

Quality of the Design is rated Unsatisfactory:
As was pointed out, project design suffered from the absence of a strategic, integrated approach
towards export development. As a result, too much emphasis was put on the development of
production capacity among smallholder farmers while the importance of linking them up with
exporters who had the financial, technical and management capability to develop new export
markets was neglected. There was also not much emphasis in organizing these producers along
sustainable commodity associations and ensuring the development of the necessary supply chains
that can ensure the development of the concerned sub-sectors. The mid-term evaluation identified
numerous cases where small producers had achieved a production increase but nevertheless, saw



                                                 - 14 -

their revenues decline since they were unable to establish linkages with the export market.

With its emphasis on trade promotion and information services, and on providing these services to
existing producer and exporter organizations, as well as access to grant financing for collective
investments, the project clearly reflected some of the key findings of its preparatory field work.
Nevertheless, the design of the project and its components showed several significant
shortcomings, notably:

l Project design reflected a lack of understanding of the importance of the linkages between
    each segment within the product value chain and their need to collaborate in order to achieve
    a growth objective. Rather than adopting an integrated approach, providing incentives for the
    various segments of the value chain to collaborate in the formulation and execution of an
    export development strategy, the project focused on producer and exporter organizations
    individually.

l In its insistence that producers form an association in order to be eligible for matching grant
    assistance, the project underestimated the difficulty of building effective associations. The
    mid-term evaluation established that many associations were associations in name only and in
    reality were a front for a few individuals to gain access to grant financing.

l The original project design called for complete delegation of project management to a team of
    independent experts. At the objection of GON that the capacity for managing such a project
    did not exist in Niger, a compromise was reached whereby the UGP was to manage
    components 1 and 2, while it would assess the validity of sub-project proposals under
    component 3 ­ the core of the project ­ the final decision on these proposals was to be taken
    by the CSO. The result was a cumbersome approval process without adequate safeguards
    against political interference or conflicts of interest. At the time of the project design, there
    was a growing consensus within the Bank that matching grant funds, in order to be effective,
    had to be managed by technical experts, operating independently on the basis of clear, agreed
    upon decision making criteria, with ex-post controls by the government. The design of the
    APEPP matching grant fund did not reflect this consensus.

l The project started out without a well designed M&E system in place. A baseline study was
    to be commissioned during the project's startup phase but was not conducted until 2003. The
    absence of an effective M&E system was felt as a serious shortcoming throughout project
    execution and greatly complicated the measurement of the impact from the matching grants, a
    difficult task under the best of circumstances.

In addition, project operational procedures, although completed as a condition of effectiveness,
were ambiguous about several important aspects, including

(i)     All three components provided for the financing of TA activities but only the procedures
        for component 3 specified eligibility criteria, a decision making process and a cost sharing
        formula.    De facto, this left the project coordinator with considerable discretionary
        decision making power over such items as international travel for marketing purposes



                                                 - 15 -

        under components 1 and 2, which moreover, could be subsidized up to 100%.

(ii)    The cost sharing formula for physical investments was inadequately spelled out and left
        too much discretionary power to the CSO

(iii)   Apart from a few broadly defined criteria, the procedures manual did not include a specific
        methodology for evaluating sub-project proposals which affected the transparency of the
        decision making process.

Several of these issues were identified during the mid-term evaluation which led to a series of
amendments to the procedures manual: (i) an operational committee within the UGP was given
the authority to decide on the financing of TA activities while the CSO retained the final authority
over investment decisions; (ii) a more detailed cost sharing formula was introduced covering TA
activities as well as physical investments; and (iii) a more transparent decision making
methodology was specified. The evaluation team found fault with the results framework and
subsequently, several of the performance indicators were changed and made more specific,
notably the ones covering the PDO and components 1 and 2. However, the M&E methodology
remained unclear and the new performance indicators were not consistently monitored. Although
the need for adopting an integrated commodity chain approach was raised repeatedly during the
mid-term review, the path dependency and the transaction costs involved in changing the
approach prevented the project from adopting a more integrated, strategic approach towards the
support of the selected commodity chains.

In assessing the project's compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies, the project design team
failed to anticipate the risk of involuntary resettlement, a risk that was identified during mid-term
evaluation when it was pointed out that this could trigger the Bank's OP 4.12 regarding
involuntary resettlement, which requires the development of a resettlement plan or resettlement
policy framework if the risk of involuntary resettlement exists.

Quality of Implementation Arrangements: Unsatisfactory:
The design of the implementation arrangements was based on the assumption that a team of
highly qualified technicians could be recruited at implementation. This turned out to be far more
difficult than anticipated: the position of procurement specialist, a critical function, took more
than two years to be filled satisfactorily, and by mid-term evaluation, persistent weaknesses in
financial management were identified. Most importantly, by agreeing to give the decision making
authority over matching grants to the CSO, which was composed of nominated individuals who
were functioning on a pro-bono basis, the design team failed to anticipate the problems this would
entail for the quality and effectiveness of the decision making process. Indeed, shortcomings in
the decision making process turned out to be a major bottleneck in the successful implementation
of the project.

Anticipation of Implementation Risks: Unsatisfactory:
The project design underestimated the implementation risks. For instance, the PAD listed the
ability of producer and exporter organizations to articulate their demand as a critical risk factor
but rated the risk as "negligible". Due to the innovative nature of the project and the lack of



                                                 - 16 -

capacity among producers and their associations, this risk should have been rated as "high" and
project design should have been adapted accordingly.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance is rated Unsatisfactory overall.

The project was subjected to a Quality of Supervision Assessment in 2004 and while the ICR
rating takes account of the findings of this assessment it also takes account of other factors that
have affected the overall outcome and that resulted from inadequate supervision. The QAG
assessment found a number of positives which included:


l The Bank team worked hard on a number of "process" issues.             For instance, it was very
    proactive in requesting and securing a PHRD grant to provide intensive capacity-building and
    technical assistance for the UGP.
l The Mid-Term Review was well organized and benefited from additional resources to bring-in
    outside specialists, who added substantial value to the process and helped identify potentially
    serious issues.
l Continuous monitoring of project financial management through supervision missions and
    providing training to the project staff resulted in an improvement in the project's financial
    management.
l The Bank took necessary steps for the resolution of the issue of ineligible expenditures,
    including action from the Country Director.
l The team has benefited from very good continuity following project effectiveness in 2001.
    Locally-based staff, including the TTL, have been the backbone of the bank supervision and
    proved to have impressive skills and experience, and the ability to handle difficult supervision
    missions very well.

While these QAG findings reflected positively on the Bank's supervision performance, the Bank
could have been more insistent on establishing a credible monitoring and evaluation system and
also in performing its fiduciary functions. An independent procurement and SOE audit of the
project in early 2005 revealed a number of deficiencies in procurement and the delivery of
non-objections under the project and this led to a change in the TTL for the project. Bank
supervision also appeared not to have been able to get project management to focus on some of
the key areas (proper monitoring, better support for commodity chain management, etc.) that
would have pointed out some of the weaknesses and improved sustainability Finally, the Bank
could probably have done more to provide access to international expertise in these technical
areas such as commodity chains and economic sustainability of sub-projects.             On balance
therefore the overall supervision performance is rated unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
 Overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory

The project was in problem status for much of its initial phase but intensive supervision support
succeeded in gradually turning the situation around. Nevertheless, the satisfactory performance in
the initial stages of the project supervision is outweighed by the significant shortcomings in the
design of the project and its implementation mechanisms, some of which were corrected during


                                                - 17 -

project implementation, others not at all as well as the shortcomings that were observed in
fiduciary monitoring during the latter stages of project implementation..

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation performance is rated Satisfactory.              Initially, the borrower had a
different conception of what export development entails, but showed evidence of a growing
understanding and acceptance of the project concept. During preparation and appraisal, the
borrower was increasingly committed to APEPP and showed a high level of ownership and
commitment to export development. During implementation however the Ministry of Agriculture
was constantly questioning the approach adopted that did not include a line of credit for farmers.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated Marginally Unsatisfactory. Throughout
the life of the project, Government maintained a good macro-economic framework and sector
reforms that provided a sound framework for the project to evolve. Also Government supported
the mid-term review recommendations and closely cooperated with the Bank to resolve some of
the key implementation issues that had been identified. However the deficiencies identified in
CSO performance (Section 5.2) and frequent challenges from the Ministry of the fundamental
project approach of the project, make Government implementation performance Marginally
Unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated Unsatisfactory. Although recruitment
of qualified staff was a condition of effectiveness, the initial implementation phase was seriously
affected by staffing issues. At the time of the fourth PSR, new staffing concerns arose as two key
specialists had resigned. Subsequent PSR's found shortcomings in the technical and financial
analysis of sub-projects and the respect of eligibility criteria. Moreover, the lack of a strategic
plan to guide the formulation and analysis of sub-projects was identified. Importantly, a lack of
pro-activity was noted on the part of the UGP in communicating and working with stakeholders
to ensure that sub-projects were designed and implemented with a view to improve the export
performance of the sub-sectors. A number of recommendations were made to overcome these
problems but many issues remained.         UGP subsequently benefited from significant capacity
building support which translated into a gradually improving performance towards the end of the
project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated Marginally Unsatisfactory in light of the findings
summarized in the above sections and in light of the overall Unsatisfactory.performance of the
Implementing Agency.

8. Lessons Learned

Although the outcome of APEPP has remained below potential, the experience has provided a
number of key lessons for the design of a follow-up project, which taken together, could
significantly increase the chances of it achieving the intended impact:




                                                 - 18 -

l A series of in-depth analyses of the selected sub-sectors should be conducted as part of
    project preparation to identify the key obstacles towards improved export performance;

l In integrated value chain approach should be adopted from the out start whereby support is
    provided to the different stakeholders in each selected sub-sector to develop and agree on a
    comprehensive strategy for achieving export growth.          Matching grants should be made
    available for sub-projects that have been designed within the context of this strategy;

l Grant support should be primarily for support services; grant support for physical investment
    should be provided only in cases where operators further down the value chain are unable to
    obtain financing from other sources;

l Project management should be contracted out to an independent team of experts who have
    been given decision making authority based on a detailed procedures manual, with ex-post
    controls by the Government;

l A rigorous M&E system should be developed as part of project preparation with as key
    element, the provision that every grant agreement specifies clear and measurable output and
    impact indicators;

l It should be recognized that some value chains will require substantial private investment to
    achieve their full export potential. The livestock value chain is a case in point where the
    absence of an international standard slaughterhouse substantially diminishes the potential for
    value addition from meat production as well as hides and skins. A follow-up project may
    therefore benefit from the inclusion of a component to identify and attract strategic investors
    to the selected sub-sectors.

l In future matching grant schemes, alternative means for managing grant resources need to be
    looked at including the possibility of contracting out the management of the scheme;

l To have broader impact, future matching grant schemes should have appropriate and perhaps
    different criteria for grants going to established firms, grants going to individuals, and grants
    targeted at groups and cooperatives with larger numbers of poor people.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The borrower, in its assessment of APEPP dated August 2005, highlighted a number of
beneficial impacts and indicated possible means of achieving sustainability of the project
outcomes. Suggestions have been made to strengthen the economic and social framework of
operations in Niger and to strengthen producer and exporter capacities. Improvement in the
business climate and the identification of potential buyers of agro-pastoral exports have been
identified as key success factors.     Finally, GON underlined the need for further support to
ANIPEX, unlocking some of the key production areas, and the establishment of a fund aimed at
supporting agro-pastoral marketing and exports.


                                                 - 19 -

The implementing agency also provided extensive comments on APEPP's design and
justifications on project management issues. On the project design, it emphasized that the
project development objective was not clear enough when project implementation started. It also
explained that the methods for achieving agro-pastoral exports had to evolve during credit
implementation to best match market opportunities but that this adjustment process proved to be
problematic. A key problem reported by the UGP related to the difficulties it has experienced in
managing the Export Promotion Grant Facility. According to the UGP, the project design has
been overly optimistic and underestimated capacity and staffing requirements associated with the
Export Promotion Grant Facility. Finally, the agency underlined the fact that it has experienced a
number of delays at the launching of the project, due to time consuming procurement of goods
and services.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                              - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of grant investment that          90%                             80%
successfully meet market needs and
collective needs of producer and exporter
organizations.

Percentage of market trends identified by the 50%                            40%
project are used by producers and exporters
in their decision-making process.

Percentage of marketing cost reduction for   20%                             15%
project clients.




Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of target export markets receive  66%                             60%
the Project messages on Niger products


Percentage of persons receiving trade and    90%                             80%
information Services understand it correctly


Number of the visits of the project web-site 40,000                          2,600 due to Network failure


Percentage of sub-projects implemented in    90%                             85%
accordance with the Subsidiary Agreement

1End of project
N.B: Note that PDO indicators were not formally revised.




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million   US$ million
A. Information Services and Trade Promotion                    2.10             1.24         59.05
B. Institutional Support to Agricultural Producer &            1.30             1.18         90.77
Exporter Organizations
C. Export Promotion Subprojects                                5.00             3.95            79
D. Project Management and Supervision                          1.95             3.87        198.46

Total Baseline Cost                                           10.35           10.24
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.00
 Price Contingencies                                           0.00
                          Total Project Costs                 10.35           10.24
                  Total Financing Required                    10.35           10.24


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.05          0.25          0.00        0.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.04)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.04)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.10          0.28          0.00        0.38
                                    (0.00)           (0.09)      (0.16)          (0.00)     (0.25)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          4.09          0.00        4.09
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.86)          (0.00)     (3.86)
4. Training                         0.00             0.00          0.96          0.00        0.96
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.91)          (0.00)     (0.91)
5. Grants for subprojects           0.00             0.00          6.00          0.00        6.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.00)          (0.00)     (5.00)
6. Recurrent Cost                   0.00             0.00          0.32          0.00        0.32
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.29)          (0.00)     (0.29)
   Total                            0.00             0.15         11.90          0.00       12.05
                                    (0.00)           (0.13)      (10.22)         (0.00)    (10.35)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.06)       (0.04)         (0.00)     (0.10)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.10         0.28           0.00       0.38
                                    (0.00)          (0.49)       (0.32)         (0.00)     (0.81)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         4.09           0.00       4.09


                                                  - 22 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.67)            (0.00)           (0.67)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.96             0.00              0.96
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)           (0.50)
   5. Grants for subprojects               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Recurrent Cost                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.03)            (0.00)           (0.03)
       Total                               0.00               0.10              5.33             0.00              5.43
                                          (0.00)             (0.55)            (1.56)            (0.00)           (2.11)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Information Services        2.10                                  1.24                               59.0
and Trade Promotion
B. Institutional Support to    1.30                                  1.18                               90.8
Agricultural Producer &
Exporter Organizations
C. Export Promotion            5.00                      0.99        3.95                    1.53       79.0              154.5
Subprojects
D. Project Management          1.95         0.70                     3.87         0.94                  198.5    134.3
and Supervision




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Data not available to conduct a reliable ex-post analysis.




                                               - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/19/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGROECONOMIST (1)
              10/09/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGROECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/13/2000              11     SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             SOCIAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); OPERATION
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGROECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision

              05/25/2001                2    CO-TTL (2)                       S               S
              10/26/2001                8    RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);       S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             COUNTRY MANAGER (1);
                                             MACRO ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TASK TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); SOCIAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                             SECT SPECIALIS (1)
              06/28/2002               10    PROJECT MANAGEMENT (2);          U               S
                                             AG. SERVICE AND EXTENT
                                             (1); AGROECONOMISTE (1);
                                             MARKETING SPECIALIST (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIO SPECIALIS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)




                                              - 25 -

      02/27/2003    11 RURAL DEVELOPMENT SPEC       U    S
                       (1); AG. SERVICE
                       SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                       PARTICIP SPECIA (1);
                       AG.SERVICES SPECIALIST
                       (1); PROGRAM ASSITANT (1);
                       ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT
                       MANAGER (1); LIVESTOCK
                       SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                       ANALYST (1); TRADE
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       ENVIRONMENTALIST (1)
      04/15/2004    8  TTL (1); AG. SERVICE         S    S
                       SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                       DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                       SECTOR MANGER (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT (1); PROJECT
                       COORDINATOR (1);
                       PERMANENT SECRETARY (1)
      10/27/2004    5  TTL (1); PROGRAM             S    S
                       ASSISTANT (1); NATIONAL
                       COORDINATOR (1); M&E
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       SUB-PROJECT ANALYST (1)
      01/18/2005    8  TTL (1); AG. SERVICE         S    S
                       SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                       DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT (1); Sr.
                       OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                       PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                       CONSULTANT (1)
      05/27/2005    6  TTL (1); AG. SERVICE         S    S
                       SPECIALIST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FINANCIAL
                       MANAGEMENT (1);
                       CONSULTANT (1); PROGRAM
                       ASSISTANT (1)

ICR
      10/23/2005    2  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                       ECONOMIST (1)




                       - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                            30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                211
  Supervision                                                          376
  ICR                                                                   43
  Total                                                                660




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Accounting and Financial Management Manual
2. Aide-mémoire of 1st Supervision Mission PPEAP May 8-25, 2001
3. Aide-mémoire of 2ndSupervision Mission PPEAP October 15-26, 2001
4. Aide-mémoire of 3rdSupervision Mission PPEAP June 14-28, 2002
5. Aide-mémoire of 4thSupervision Mission PPEAP February 15-27, 2003
6. Aide-mémoire of Mid Term Review PPEAP October 6-28, 2003
7. Aide-mémoire of 6thSupervision Mission PPEAP April 1-15, 2004
8. Aide-mémoire of 7thSupervision Mission PPEAP January 10-20, 2005
9. Aide-mémoire of 8thSupervision Mission PPEAP May 16-27, 2005
10. Banque Mondiale, 2000. Document d'évaluation relatif à une proposition de crédit d'un
montant de 7,7 millions DTS pour le PPEAP.
11. Comité National d'évaluation finale du PPEAP, 2005. Rapport de mission de terrain, Axe
Tillabéri ­ Dosso - CUN.
12. Comité National d'évaluation finale du PPEAP, 2005. Rapport de mission de terrain, Axe
Tahoua - Agadez.
13. Comité National d'évaluation finale du PPEAP, 2005. Rapport de mission de terrain, Axe
Maradi - Zinder.
14. Comité National d'évaluation finale du PPEAP, 2005. Rapport de mission de terrain, Axe
Diffa.
15. Commentaires sur les points soulevés par Mme Ilhem Baghdadli consultante de la Banque
Mondiale pour l'évaluation finale du PPEAP à l'occasion de la réunion de travail tenue à l'UGP, le
samedi 5 novembre 2005 de 10 heures à 13 heures en présence du coordinateur national, du
responsable administratif et financier, du responsable de suivi-évaluation et du comptable du projet.
16. Development Credit Agreement (CR.3363-NIR)
17. Etude du marché international des filières sésame, souchet, gomme arabique et cuirs et peaux
18. Etude du marché régional de l'oignon, du niébé et de bétail-viande
19. Evaluation à mi-parcours du Projet de Mobilisation des Eaux dans le Département de
Tahoua (PMET). AGRIFOR Consult. Juin 2004.
20. Evaluation externe du Projet de Gestion des Terroirs de Filingué (PGTF II). SOFRECO.
Septembre 2003.
21. Evaluation finale du Projet d'appui à la Sécurité Alimentaire par le Développement des
Organisations Paysannes (PASADOP). SNV/NIGER, janvier 2003.
22. Evaluation Finale du Projet de Mise en Valeur des Cuvettes Oasiennes de Goudoumaria
(MEVCO Phase II).
23. Manual of financing subprojects
24. Mission d'appui en suivi évaluation pour l'élaboration du rapport de fin du Projet cadre
de Promotion des exportations agricoles ( PCPEA -Rép. de Guinée). Juin 2002.
25. Plans d'actions des filières oignon, niébé et bétail-viande
26. PPEAP, 2000. Manuel d'exécution du projet (rapport définitif)
27. PPEAP, 2000. Accord de crédit N°3363 NIR entre la République du Niger et l'Association
Internationale de Développement.
28. PPEAP, 2003. Evaluation des niveaux de réalisation des indicateurs de performance du
PPEAP (Rapport définitif).


                                                     - 30 -

29. PPEAP, 2003. Manuel des procédures de suivi interne du PPEAP (version provisoire).
30. PPEAP, 2004. Manuel des Procédures de financement des sous projets (version
définitive).
31. PPEAP, 2004. Rapport de l'audit technique et financier des sous projet financés par le
PPEAP (version définitive).
32. PPEAP, 2005. Rapport d'impact des interventions du PPEAP
33. PPEAP, Rapports annuels d'activités 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004.
34. Project Appraisal Document
35. Project Implementation Manual
36. Projet de Programme National Intégré de Recherche Vulgarisation. BUNEC, Mars 2000.
37. QAG assessement report
38. QER report
39. Quelques commentaires sur quelques erreurs de conception ou de montage du Projet ayant
entraîné un certain nombre de difficultés au cours de sa mise en oeuvre
40. Répertoire des manifestations commerciales, des associations professionnelles, des clients et
intermédiaires
41. République du Niger, 2002. Stratégie de Réduction de Pauvreté.
42. République du Niger, 2003. Stratégie de Développement Rural. Novembre 2003.
43. Synthèse de l'étude du marché régional de l'oignon, du niébé et de bétail-viande




                                                   - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's completion report


The Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project (APEPP) has achieved a number of results while its current
implementation comes to an end on October 31st 2005. The Ministry for Agricultural Development
(MAD) has thus created a Final Evaluation National Committee through a decree N°056/MDA/CAB of
June 3rd 2005, and has appointed committee members by a decree N°059/MDA/CAB of June 30th 2005
and provided this committee very defined terms of reference.

I. APEPP ACHIEVEMENTS

COMPONENT 1: Trade Promotion and Information Services


This component has four (4) sub-components:

Sub-component 1: Market Information System

Sub-component 2: Trade Promotion

Sub-component 3: Quality Development

Sub-component 4: Export and financing procedures


COMPONENT 2: Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter Organizations

COMPONENT 3: Export Promotion Grant Facility

COMPONENT 4: Project Management

Project coordination took place both at national and regional levels and covered administrative
and financial management, contract negotiation and signing, financial control, and monitoring and
evaluation areas.

II. FINAL EVALUATION OF THE APEPP

Project Rationale

Initial objectives

    l APPEP initial objectives fit directly within macro economic and sectoral strategies adopted by the
        Government of Niger to restore macro-economic balance;
    l Regarding the poverty reduction strategy and the necessity to promote agro-pastoral exports, initial
        objectives are accurate.

Institutional framework and implementation arrangements

    l The MAD supervised the project;
    l The Steering Committee (CSO) provided overall project guidance;



                                                 - 32 -

   l The Project Implementation Unit (Unité de Gestion du Projet in French) ensured execution despite
         geographic coverage problems; The regional entities represented the PIU in the regions:
   l Regional Committees (CRAA/P) were created in support to the PIU but lacked appropriate
         financial resources.

  Project performance

All four (4) components of the project have been reviewed following the various indicators of the updated
log frame. Then, respective commitments from the State, the WB and Professional Organizations of the
Filières (OPF) were examined.

COMPONENT 1: Trade Promotion and Information Services

   l US$2.1 millions or 17.4% of total financing;
   l Almost 80% of beneficiaries of approved sub-projects, assisted in proposal preparation. Eleven
         (11) proposals of structures were submitted to other sources of financing;
   l With support actions undertaken by the project, Niger exporters made CFAF4 billion in revenues
         and businesses were created;
   l Better knowledge of supply and demand of competing products on regional and international
         markets;:
   l All action plans for the seven supply chains have been adopted.


Indicators are satisfactory and prove that the project reached almost all of its objectives and
particularly trade promotion and price & market information services.

COMPONENT 2: Institutional Support to Producer and Exporter Organizations

   l CFAF731,087,600 or 10.8% of project total costs;
   l Achievements account for CFAF593,364,943 or 81% burnout ratio;
   l Only 41% of OPF operate normally, among them is the ANIPEX with 255 members registered in 9
         months;
   l Utilization of existing savings and credit networks was abandoned during project implementation
         due to lack of resources;
   l Assessment of differences observed between expected results and actual results showed that
         component 2 objectives were achieved satisfactorily.

In light of achieved activities and implemented resources, the project is efficient.

COMPONENT 3: Export Promotion Grant Facility

   l Satisfaction demand rate of 25.32% (98/387);
   l 98 accepted proposals financed for CFAF2,113,568,954 on an expected total cost of US$6 million
         (or about CFAF3 billion) representing a 69.66% burnout ratio;
   l These investments affected 79,000 members of beneficiary structures and help increasing revenues.


Despite identified shortcomings and in light of targeted objectives for this component,
achieved results are considered satisfactory both in quantity and quality by stakeholders
and other APEPP partners.




                                                   - 33 -

COMPONENT 4: Project Management

   l Financial predictions of US$2.65 million representing a 111.57% burnout ratio, due to various
         budgetary reallocations to endow the component;
   l All Withdrawal Applications (WA) and Withdrawal Application for Direct Payment (RDP) were
         done on a regular basis and within delays allowing a 99.32% disbursement of project total
         allocation;
   l The PIU has developed a "to do" approach through conventions with 17 structures;
   l The 13 experts of the PIU have been rated;
   l Contract negotiation and signing took place regularly and in respect with WB procedures;
   l Periodical reports were produced on time;
   l Audits were submitted on time and identified shortcomings by auditors deal with sub-project
         management.

Results are satisfactory but more remains to be done in terms of management of decentralized
structures.

    Respect of commitments

   l State: all commitments were honored except implementation of some aspects (late start of project
         and of the processing of proposals);
   l WB: performances are satisfactory and in harmony with IDA Credit Agreement N°3363NIR;
   l OPF: commitments honored at 92.85% (The Agreement expected at least 75%), which is
         satisfactory; seven sub-projects proposals are stalled out of the 98 proposals.

In spite of observed achievements and results, several constraints have affected the efficiency of project
implementation, and are as follows:

   l Production and trade systems are inefficient;
   l Project activities were more focused on production support rather than export promotion, which
         was the main objective as project name indicates;
   l Implemented resources for trade promotion remain limited despite scope and importance of this
         activity;
   l Insufficient professionnalization of stakeholders does not allow them to respond to requirements of
         international requirements;
   l Lack of expertise to fully support export activities (main project objective);
   l Insufficient resources and responsibilities given to CRAA/P;
   l No APEPP regional structures in some regions;
   l Difficulties of associative structures to operate;
   l Lack of training, supervision and monitoring of related activities;
   l Time consuming approval process of proposals;
   l Limited capacity of some promoters does not allow them to provide personal resources;
   l Input financing in sub-project proposals not taken into consideration;
   l Absence of financing of working capital.


Related effects

They were analyzed in terms of capacity strengthening of OPF, poverty reduction, livelihood improvements
of local populations and environmental, social and economic impacts.


                                                    - 34 -

Capacity strengthening

      l Production increase;
      l Identification and promotion of the 7 supply chains for export;
      l Structuring of organizations by supply chain;
      l Set up of norms of some products destined to export;
      l Access of Niger products to foreign markets.


Poverty reduction

Achievements have directly affected 79,000 members of structures related to the project.


Livelihood improvements of local populations

      l Job creations and revenue sharing (CCNI SARL: 80 up to 100 temporary workers 8 months
           out of 12; Tannery Malam Yaro: 36 permanent workers and 24 temporaries per year);
      l Export production changes observed in 6 supply chains could help increasing revenues.


Environmental, social and economic impacts

      l Trainings, study tours, brainstorming sessions, information and familiarization meetings
           organized by the project for the OPF have allowed them to have a better understanding of bills
           and acquire experience;
      l A remarkable effort has been noted in terms of packaging and quality improvement of export
           products;
      l Better knowledge of foreign markets;
      l Environmental assessment done for the APEPP provided expected negative and positive
           impacts and offered an environmental management plan including mitigation measures.

Financial and economic sustainability

      l Effective promotion of promising supply chains through important investments will contribute
           in time to economic sustainability;
      l Stimulate the creation and vigor of groups defending collective interests in rural areas.


Perennity/Sustainability

      l Businesses that received support from the APEPP fulfill sustainability requirements,
           namely in terms of management organization, vitality of promoters, importance of
           investments, professional experience, market knowledge, production , revenue
           enhancement, etc.;
      l Also, the introduction of technical norms and quality improvement of products
           destined to export will have sustainable impact on the majority of these production
           units and exporters' revenues;
      l All these conditions must be strengthened through:




                                                 - 35 -

                 - A favorable political, social and economic environment;
                 - Capacity strengthening of stakeholders;
                 - Improvement of the business environment for the private sector;
                 - Search for opportunities to facilitate product trade;
                 - Set up of a Trade and Export Product Fund;
                 - Opening of production zones;
                 - Monitoring of sub-project activity by ANIPEX and by related services should receive
                 appropriate financing.

PERSPECTIVES

The report underlines the rationale of a second phase for the Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project.

CONCLUSION

In terms of performance, the APEPP has significantly contributed to the improvement of information
services, the creation of a supply chain dynamism and trade promotion.

The APEPP has allowed Niger to better position itself on the export market of agro-pastoral products. It
has strengthened capacity of group structures through trainings, information and familiarization, the
creation of ANIPEX, destined to consolidate and sustain APEPP gains.

Regarding the objective of financing mechanisms for sub-projects, the APEPP did satisfactorily. In terms
of coordination and management of the project, actual results are satisfactorily. Overall, commitments of
various interested parties (State, WB, OPF) were honored.

Despite actual results and achievements, several constraints have affected project implementation and must
be taken into account for another phase.
Regarding perspectives of a second phase, it will consist in consolidating gains while searching for
appropriate solutions to identified problems.

It would be wise to support ANIPEX so that it can effectively undertake export promotion aspects.




                                                    - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Stakeholder workshop results

A stakeholder workshop was held in October 2005 to present main results of the APEPP
evaluation report. The workshop was attended by Government representatives of Niger, members
of the implementation unit of the project as well as WB representatives, various partners and
private entrepreneurs. The results of the project have been outlined in a 98-page report and a 10
page summary (both available in French). The report reviews the achievements of the program
objectives: promote trade & information services, support to producer and exporter
organizations, and provide grant facility for export promotion. It analyzes the development
objectives; the rationale of the project, its institutional framework, implementation and execution
arrangements and its impacts in terms of capacity building, poverty reduction, livelihood
improvements of local populations, as well as environmental, social and economic impacts;
differences between expected results and actual ones that favor or affect realization of effects and
impacts; economic and financial sustainability; durability of gains and their environmental, social
and economic impacts; respect of Niger and WB commitments in project implementation.


   LISTE DES PARTICIPANTS A LA REUNION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET DE
         PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS AGRO-PASTORALES (PPEAP)


                                          (Le 28 octobre 2005)

                                                                                           NOMBRE
       N°                                          STRUCTURES

        1    Présidence de la République                                                  1
             Conseiller Technique en Développement Rural/PRN                              1
        2    Primature                                                                    1
             Conseiller Technique en Développement Rural/PM                               1
        3    Comité National Interministériel d'Evaluation du PPEAP                       8
             Les 8 Membres du Comité                                                      8
        4    Ministères Techniques Concernés                                              3
             MDA (SG/PCSO/Président du Comité Interministériel d'Evaluation du            1
             PPEAP)
             MCIPSP (Direction de la Normalisation)                                       1
             ME/F (Direction de la Monnaie et du Crédit)                                  1
        5    Unité de Gestion du PPEAP                                                    4
             Experts de I'Equipe restreinte                                               4
        6    Partenaires                                                                  19
             CCAIAN/Niamey                                                                1
             CNUT/Niamey                                                                  1


                                                  - 37 -

     INRAN/Niamey                                                          1
     ICRISAT/Niamey                                                        1
     ANIPEX/Niamey                                                         1
     Fédération des Artisans du Niger/Niamey (Filière Cuirs et Peaux)      1
     Tannerie Mallam Yaro/Zinder (Filière Cuirs et Peaux)                  1
     Compagnie Commerciale du Niger (CCNI)/Maradi (Filières Souchet et     1
     Niébé)
     Ets Soumaïla Hatimou/Niamey (Filière Souchet)                         1
     Ets Issoufou Boubé/Niamey (Filière Sésame)                            1
     Ets Tchios/Niamey (Filière Viande)                                    1
     Observatoire Régional de l'Oignon (ORO)/Niamey (Filière oignon)       1
     Ranch RAMUBEP/Filingué (Filière Bétail)                               1
     UCMT/Agadez (Filière Oignon)                                          1
     STA/Niamey (Filière Niébé/Transformation)                             1
     Achat Services International (ASI)/Niamey (Filières Gomme Arabique et 1
     Oignon)
     ANFO/Madaoua (Filière Oignon)                                         1
     Société BIODIS-SA/Niamey (Filière Viande)                             1
     Président CRAAP/CUN                                                   1
  7  Projets                                                               2
     PROPAN                                                                1
     AFOP                                                                  1
                                                                           38
TOTAL




                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

