Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3363 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Agro-Pastoral Export Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3363 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated February 29, 
2000, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to enhance its agricultural sector (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means the recipient of a Grant for the 
purposes of financing a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to a 
Subproject Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“UGP” means “Unité de Gestion de Projet”, the project 
management unit in MDR (as hereinafter defined), established pursuant to 
Arrêté No. 022/MDR/DEP, dated Aril 3, 2000;
(c)
“CSO” means ”Comité de Suivi et d’Orientation”, the 
Borrower’s Project Steering Committee, established pursuant to Arrêté 
No.: 018/MDR/DEP, dated March 30, 2000;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(e)
"FCFA" means "Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, 
the currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
Borrower to a Beneficiary (as hereinafter defined) for the implementation 
of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the conditions set 
forth in paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of Annex 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Offices 
of the United Nations Development Program;
(h)
“MDR” means Ministère du Développement Rural, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Agricultural Development;
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Association on March 3, 1999, and on 
behalf of the Borrower on March 17, 1999;
(k)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Implementation Manual" and “PIM” mean the “Manuel 
de Procédures” referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement 
containing, inter alia, procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementing the Project, including eligibility criteria for the 
distribution of Grants and monitoring and performance indicators, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules to said Project 
Page  3
Implementation Manual;
(m)
“Special Account” means the accounts referred to in Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(n)
“Subproject” means any one of the activities under Part C. 
of the Project; and
(o)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement concluded 
between the Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purpose of partially 
financing a Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) on account of withdrawals made for the 
purposes of a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of works, goods and 
services required for a Subproject pursuant to Part C of the Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and 
(ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
Parts A, B and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
Page  4
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 
2010 and ending December 15, 2039. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on December 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Page  5
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
strategy for the implementation of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of  Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an 
amount equivalent to $15,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to 
the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, by March 30, June 15, 
September 15 and December 15 in each year during Project implementation, 
such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account 
back to the amount of the initial deposit
referred to in paragraph (b) 
above; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project, 
including those reflecting the Grants.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
Page  6
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by or before September 30 of each 
calendar year from the Effective Date until the furnishing of the first 
Project Management Report, have its internal financial control system and 
the management supervision of said system audited by the auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement and address any 
deficiencies indicated in said audits with due diligence.
Section 4.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01, in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
Page  7
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 4.03, the Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has:
(a)
established the Project Account and deposited therein the 
initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, for the purposes of said Section, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
appointed the project management team of UGP in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
appointed the members of CSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
established a computerized accounting and financial 
management system in UGP, acceptable to the Association; and
(f)
adopted the PIM, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan
Ministère du Plan
BP 862
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINIPLAN
5463 NI
(227) 
735983
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Maradi, Republic of Niger, as of the day and 
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Wassalké Boukary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shengman Zhang
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants for Subprojects
   3,000,000
100% of amount
under Part C of the Project
disbursed
(2)
Works
      30,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures
(3)
Goods
     190,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures
(4)
Consultants’
   2,490,000
100%
services and audits
(5)
Training
     660,000
100%
(6)
Operating
     210,000
95%
costs
(7)
Refunding of
     370,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) 
of
Advance
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     760,000
TOTAL
   7,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided however, that, if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, administrative support, communication and 
utility services, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
Page  10
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, for 
works under contracts costing less than $50,000 each, and for 
expenditures for services under contracts with firms costing less than 
$100,000 or with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “eligible Categories” 
means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B 2. of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that: (i) any 
deficiencies indicated in any audit report referred to in Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement have not been corrected promptly and with due diligence;
and (ii) any Project Management Report does not adequately provide the 
information required pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
Page  11
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B 2. of 
this Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of FCFA 
350,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of FCFA 175,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit into said Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or 
at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part 
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of FCFA 
700,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist producers and exporters 
of agro-pastoral products grown or produced, as the case may be, in the 
territory of the Borrower, to efficiently supply the agro-pastoral export 
market and adapt favorably to market changes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
Page  13
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Information Services and Trade Promotion
1.
Trade promotion
Identification of potential buyers of selected agro-pastoral 
products and supply of product samples and other relevant data to said 
buyers, through the provision of technical advisory services and training 
to selected agro-pastoral producers and exporters, and the carrying out 
of study tours, trade exhibitions and information, education and 
communication campaigns.
2.
Market information system
(a)
Identification of new markets for selected agro-pastoral 
products, and constraints to satisfy said markets pertaining to, inter 
alia,  transportation, technology, quality control, processing or 
management, as the case may be; and
(b)
elaboration of recommendations to overcome said constraints, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training to 
selected agro-pastoral producers and exporters, carrying out of 
workshops, study tours and of information, education and communication 
campaigns.
3.
Product Quality Enhancement
(a)
Establishment of product identification criteria, such as 
product brands, logos, labels and specific packaging materials for 
selected agro-pastoral products;
(b)
quality control standards and methods to assure the 
maintenance of high product quality, and
(c)
research to improve quality of export products to meet 
market standards, through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training to selected agro-pastoral producers and exporters, and the 
carrying out of study tours, trade exhibitions and information, education 
and communication campaigns
4.
Livestock Census
Census of the camels, cattle, goats and sheep in the territory of 
the Borrower to improve the effective use of these assets considering the 
fragile environment, through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
5.
Export and Financing Procedures
Facilitating access to export markets and financial services for 
selected agro-pastoral product exporters through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training to selected agro-pastoral 
producers and exporters, the carrying out of study tours, and 
information, education and communication campaigns.
Part B:
Institutional Support to Agricultural Producer and Exporter 
Organizations
1.
Capacity - building
Strengthening of, inter alia, the administrative, organizational, 
accounting and financial expertise, communication and coordination skills 
and proficiency in the identification, research and retrieval of relevant 
business information, and credit access, for selected agro-pastoral 
producers and exporters through the provision of technical advisory 
Page  14
services and training.
2.
Service Provision 
Provision of information pertaining to quality enhancement of 
selected products to agro-pastoral producers and exporters through the 
provision of technical advisory services, the supply of, inter alia, 
printed material, news releases, radio and television bulletins and the 
carrying out of information, education and communication campaigns.
Part C:
Export Promotion Subprojects
Provision of Grants to selected agro-pastoral producers and 
exporters for the carrying out of Subprojects pertaining to:
1.
the strengthening of the quantity and quality of agro-pastoral 
exports, including, inter alia, activities relating to:
(a)
improvement of agricultural production through, inter alia: 
(i) rehabilitation or construction of irrigation infrastructure and water 
harvesting structures; (ii) soil fertility preservation and enhancement; 
and (iii) improved agro-pastoral production techniques;
(b)
improvement of agree-pastoral product storage through 
rehabilitation or construction of storage and processing facilities;
(c)
improvement of accessibility to agro-pastoral production 
sites through rehabilitation and construction of rural roads;
(d)
improvement of agricultural marketing capacity through the 
creation of rural market infrastructure;
(e)
improvement of livestock quality through, inter alia, (i) 
livestock fattening and (ii) development of farmer-herder interactive 
livestock-raising methods; and
(f)
improvement of product quality through innovations in, inter 
alia, packaging, sorting, grading, inspection, testing and certification.
2.
Strengthening of the managerial capacity of agro-pastoral producer 
and exporter organizations in, inter alia: (i) accounting; (ii) 
organizational logistics and product planning; (iii) financial planning 
and access to credit; (iv) technological expertise and equipment 
selection; (v) identification of export markets, (vi) attendance at 
expositions and (vii) development of product promotion and transformation 
strategies.
Part D:
Project Management and Supervision
Administration, coordination, monitoring, supervision and 
evaluation of Project implementation through the provision of technical 
assistance services and training programs for selected staff in UGP, the 
acquisition of goods and the rehabilitation of office space through the 
carrying out of works.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A:
General
Page  15
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and 
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
1.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
2.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods for Parts A, B and D 
of the Project, shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works under Parts C.1 and D of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Contracts for small civil works estimated to cost less than 
US$20,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000, would be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed price contract awarded on the basis of written 
solicitation issued to at least three qualified civil works contractors, 
following evaluation of bids received in writing from such qualified 
contractors. The award would be made to the contractor with the lowest 
price quotation for the required works.
Page  16
5.
Procurement through International Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from IAPSO.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, under Parts B. and C. of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999,  (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least cost Selection
Services for audits under Article IV of this Agreement and other 
services of standard nature, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Page  17
Services for the provision of training which are estimated to cost 
less than $25,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, and 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract for 
consultant firms, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for individual consultants: (a) meeting the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and (b) employed 
under contracts concluded with UGP, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or waive any provision thereof if, 
in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B.
Coordination, Management and Supervision
2.
The Borrower shall
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate through UGP, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
Page  18
the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and 
summarized in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives hereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, quarterly until the 
completion of the Project, for the first time by June 30, 2001, or such 
other date as the Association shall agree, until the time the Association 
shall receive the Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.03 
(b) of this Agreement, for its review and comments, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 2, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the 
submission of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, said report, and thereafter take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of  said 
report and  the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall,
appoint within UGP the following management team with 
qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Association, with 
qualified support staff in sufficient numbers, and maintain said 
management team until the Completion Date: (i) the Project Coordinator, 
(ii) an administrative and financial management specialist; (iii) an 
internal auditor; (iv) a procurement
specialist; (v) a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist; (vi) a marketing specialist; (vii) an information 
systems specialist; (viii) a communication–outreach specialist; (ix) a 
producer organization specialist; (x) a project analyst; (xi) a Project 
representative based in Tahoua; and (xii) a Project representative based 
in Maradi.  The UGP shall be responsible for the overall implementation, 
day-to-day operation and supervision of Project activities.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
appoint to CSO, under the chairmanship of its Minister for 
Rural Development: (i) up to eight representatives of the private sector 
and (ii) representatives of the following ministries: (A) ministry in 
charge of planning; (B) ministry in charge of rural development; (C) 
ministry in charge of animal resources; (D) ministry in charge of 
commerce; (E) ministry in charge of small and medium enterprises; (F) 
ministry in charge of finance and (D) ministry of commerce. The CSO shall 
be responsible for: (i) policy overview of Project activities, (ii) 
annual budget approval and control of budget expenditures relative to 
budget plans, and (iii) approval of Grants.  The CSO shall meet at least 
bi-monthly; and
(b)
maintain CSO with members  as set forth in paragraph 4 (a) 
of this Schedule 4 until Completion Date.
C.
Annual Reviews and Mid-Term Review
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2001 or 
such later date as the Association may agree, carry out jointly with the 
Association an annual review of the Project (Annual Review). The Borrower 
shall invite the members of CSO to participate and take all actions it 
considers necessary to ensure the participation of representatives of 
agro-pastoral producers and exporters in such Annual Review. Such Annual 
Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the Project 
Page  19
including, inter alia, a review of: (i) the proposed work programs and 
related budgets to be carried out during the following year, (ii) 
approved Grants and pending Grant applications; (iii) the environmental 
component of monitoring reports; and (iv) the distribution of Subprojects 
by geographic area and commodity.
(b)
Promptly following said Annual Review, the Borrower shall 
carry out, through UGP, said work programs in accordance with the 
modalities and procedures approved by the Association and in accordance 
with the PIM.
(c)
By June 30, 2002, or such other date as the Association 
shall agree upon, carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-term 
review (Midterm Review). The Borrower shall invite the members of CSO to 
participate, and take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the 
participation of representatives of  agro-pastoral producers and 
exporters in such Midterm Review.  Such Midterm Review shall cover the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and, more 
specifically, the feasibility of transferring trusteeship over the 
Project to a private sector entity such as a chamber of commerce.
(d)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the implementation of the Project.
(e)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed 
necessary by the Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may 
have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
D.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
6. General
(a)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Category (1) of the table sets forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to Beneficiaries under a 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into, respectively, between the 
Borrower and each Beneficiary pursuant to the terms and conditions set 
forth in paragraph 9 of  this Schedule 4;
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, no Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit unless UGP has determined, upon appraisal of a 
feasibility-study supported Grant application, conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the Subproject and the 
Beneficiary satisfy the respective eligibility criteria specified in said 
PIM, including the criteria indicated in paragraphs 7. and 8. of this 
Schedule 4, that a Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed pursuant 
to the requirements set forth in paragraph 9 of this Schedule 4 and CSO 
has formally approved the Grant application for the partial financing of 
said Subproject.
7.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
A Subproject shall not be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Subproject enhances, directly or indirectly, the 
production and/or export, as the case may be, of agricultural produce 
grown in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
the Subproject enhances, directly or indirectly, the quality 
and/ or quantity, as the case may be, of livestock production in the 
Page  20
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the Subproject meets the economic, financial and 
environmental criteria set forth in the PIM; and
(d)
total financing out of the proceeds of the Credit for any 
one Subproject required be not less than the equivalent of $3,000 and not 
in excess of the equivalent of US$75,000.
8.
Eligibility Criteria of Beneficiaries
(a)
The principal commercial activity of the Beneficiary is the 
production or marketing of agro-pastoral products within the territory of 
the Borrower and the Beneficiary holds rights to use land for said 
activity;
(b)
the Beneficiary has not breached any clause under a former 
Subproject Agreement, if applicable.
9.
Terms and Conditions for Subsidiary Grant Agreements
A Subproject financed by a Grant shall be carried out pursuant to a 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement, to be concluded between the Borrower and the 
Beneficiary - following the approval of the Subproject by CSO, in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of this 
Schedule 4 and in more detail in the PIM - providing for, inter alia, the 
following:
(a)
the financing of the proposed Subproject is fully 
covered by the sum of the Grant and the Beneficiary’s contribution;
(b)
the obligation to contribute out of the Beneficiary’s 
resources at least  20% in cash the projected Subproject investment 
costs;
(c)
the obligation to carry out and maintain the Subproject in 
accordance with the PIM, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate technical, environmental, financial and 
commercial practices and to maintain adequate records in such form and 
detail as the Borrower may reasonably request;
(d)
the obligation that: (i) goods and works to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject shall be procured 
according to the provisions of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (ii) contracts for consultants’ services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject shall be procured according to 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and that 
such goods, works and consultants’ services shall be used exclusively for 
the carrying out of the Subproject;
(e)
the right to inspect, by the Borrower or the Association, or 
jointly with qualified representatives of the Association, or the 
Borrower, if the Association, or the Borrower, shall so request, the 
works, plans, studies and construction sites relevant to the Subproject, 
and any relevant documents;
(f)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the 
Association, should the carrying out or the maintenance of the 
Subproject, as the case may be, not conform to the regulations set forth 
in the PIM and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and thereby unfavorably 
influence the economic return of the Subproject; and
(g)
the right to obtain all such information as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request, relating to the administration 
and financial condition of the Subproject.
10.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Page  21
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators:
Of the Development Objective:
-
At least 80% of grant investments successfully meet market needs 
and collective needs of the organizations.
-
At least 50% of external market trends recognized by project are 
taken into consideration by the organizations in their decision-making 
process.
-
At least 20% reduction in marketing costs for project clients.
Of the outputs:
1.
Trade Promotion and Information Services:
-
Two-third of target export market receives the Project messages on 
“Niger product”.
-
90% of persons receiving that message understand it correctly.
-
Project web-site functioning.
2.
Export Promotion Grant Facility.
-
At least 75% of Subprojects have been implemented in accordance 
with the covenants of the Subsidiary Grant Agreements.
