E968
Volume 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD-SECURITY
RIVER BASIN MANAGEMENT AND SMALLHOLDER
IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (RBMSIIP)
SMALLHOLDER IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
MANGALALI IRRIGATION SCHEME
ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT
DRAFT REPORT
November 2003
Environmental Resources Consultancy
Consulting environmental conservation. natural resources management and
capacity building



ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The team wishes to acknowledge with thanks the contributions of various staff members of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security's Directorate of Irrigation and Technical Services, during
the different stages of the preparation of this report: the Project Coordinator of Smallholder Irrigation
Improvement Project, Mr. Masija,the Head ofEnvironmental UnitCell, Mr. Simukanga, and other
staff. The team also extends its appreciation to the District Officers, in particularly the irrigation
technicians who are in charge of the eight schemes, at Arumeru, Moshi Rural, Simanjiro, Korogwe,
Iringa Rural and Mbarali Districts.
Thanks also go to the scheme management committees, farmers and other stakeholders ofthe eight
schemes and the community members who actively participated in the discussions and helped to
provide information that was very useful during the preparation of the Environmental Audit.
The team appreciates to more than 50 people who participated in data collection and analysis,
especially the facilitators, research assistants, enumerators, water and soil staff, data analysts, etc. Last
but not least, our appreciations go to ERC's internal staffs who directly or indirectly contributed with
enthusiasm to the EA reports.



Table of contents
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT ............................................................I
TABLE OF CONTENTS .............................................................II
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS .         ............................................................V
LIST OF TABLES, FIGURES, PLATES, AND MAPS ........................................ VI
1.  BACKGROUND ............................................................1
1.1   INTRODUCTION ...........................................................l1
1.2   UNDERSTANDING OF THE STUDY ........................................................1
1.2.1   Objective of the Study ............................................................1
1.3   STRATEGIC APPROACH ............................................................2
1.3.1   Ecosystem  Approach ...........................................................2
1.3.2   Farming System Approach ............................................................2
1.3.3   Participatory Approach .............................. .............................. 3
1.4   METHODOLOGY ............................................................5
1.4.1   Consultation ...........................................................5
1.4.2   Analytical Tools ............................................................5
1.5   LIMITATIONS ............................................................7
2   BASELINE CONDITIONS FOR THE IRRIGATION SCHEME AREA.... 8
2.1   THE PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT      ...........................................................8
2.1.1   Location ...........................................................8
2.2   THE BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT ...................................... .   10
2.2.1   Climatic Data ...........................................................  10
2.2.2   Water Resources       ................................................ 10
2.2.3   Soil ........................................................... 13
2.2.4   Biodiversity ............. . .............................................. 14
2.3   THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT        ..................................... .   14
2.3.1 Populatio            ..14
2.3.2   Agriculture practices              ..14
2.3.3    Occupation /land use    ..14
2.3.4   Markets and Marketing Iformation  .     .15
2.3.5 Education           ..15
2.3.6 Energy Supply          ..15
2.3.7 Extension Services       ..15
2.3.8 Social Capital                      .        .16
2.4   DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS ....16
3. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES AND STAKEHOLDER .17
3.1   IRINGA RURAL DISTRICT SCHISTOMIASIS CONTROL PROGRAM
(CUAMM)                              .17
3.2   SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF THE USANGU WETLAND AND
ITSCATCHMENT              .            .17
3.3    WATER USERS ASSOCIATION .17
3.4 STAKEHOLDER'S ROLE .18
3.4.1   Identified stakeholders  ..18
ii



3.4.2   Anialysis ofstakeholders .......................................................  18
3.4.3   Involvement of stakeholders in environtmental audit and
implementation of ESMP         ................................................ 18
3.4.4   Ensuring inicorporation of concern ofstakeholders in ESMP ............. 19
4. COMPLIANCE WITH TANZANIA'S POLICIES, LEGAL
FRAMEWORK AND WITH WORLD BANK'S SAFE GUARD POLICIES .... 20
4.1    NATIONAL POLICIES .......................................................  20
4.1.1   National Environment Policy of 1997 .20
4.1.2    Agriculture Policy 1997 .20
4.1.3 Land Policy of 1995 .20
4.1.4    Water Policy of 2002 .21
4.1.5   Forest Policy of 1998 .....................                21
4.1.6    Wildlife Policy of 1998 .....................             21
4.1.7    Energy Policy of 2002 (Draft) .21
4.1 LEGAL FRAMEWORK                 .          .21
4.2.1   Envirotiinent Legislation.                                 22
4.2.2 NEMCAct of 1983.                                             22
4.2.3   Land Act no.4 and Village Land Act of 1999 ..................................,.22
4.2.4    Wildlife Act 1974 (with amendmentts of 19 78) .22
4.2.5    Water Acts of 1974 ..................................   ,  23
4.2.6 Forest Act 1974 .23
4.2.7    The Town and Country Planning Ordinance, Cap 378 of 1956 . 23
4.2.8   Local Governnment Act (District and Urbani Authorities) Acts of 198223
4.2.9   Lanid Use Planning Commission Act of 1984 .23
4.2.10   The LandAcquisitions Act of 1967 .24
4.2.11 By-Laws .....                                               24
4.3 NATIONAL STRATEGIES               .         .24
4.3.1    Goverinmezt Development Vision 2025 .24
4.3.2   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of 200 .24
4.3.3   Rural Sector Development Strategy (RDS) of 200 .25
4.3.4   Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) of 2001 .25
4.3.4   Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) of 2001    25
4.4    COMPLIANCE WITH WORLD BANK SAFEGU'ARD POLICIES ..26
5.0   TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES USED IN ASSESSING AND ANALYZING
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS .28
5.1 INTRODUCTION .28
5.2 IMPACT ASSESSMENT .28
6.0   CONSULTATIONS WITH COMMUNITY AND FARMERS .                       29
6.1 INTRODUCTION .29
6.2    MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES IDENTIFIED BY
STAKEHOLDERS                .            .29
7.0   IDENTIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS .30
7.1 INTRODUCTION .30
7.2 UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM IMPACTS .30
7.2.1   Demographic trend (population changes)  .    .30
7.2.2   Hydrological changes       ..32
7.2.3    Catchmenit degradation     ..33



7.22.4  Soil erosion ..................................... 34
7.2.5   Water quality on downstream users ...................................... 34
7.3   IRRIGATION SCHEME LEVEL IMPACTS ......................................   36
7.3.1 Soil quality .36
7.3.2 Water quality .37
7.3.3 Wildlife.                                                 3 7
7.3.4   Fertilizers azd pesticides use and dangers.             37
7.3.5   Waterbornte diseases .39
7.3.6   Drinkinig water quality and sanitation .39
7.3. 7  Socio-economic. positive and negative imnpacts of villages wvithinl the
scheme  40
8. IDENTIFIED MITIGATION MEASURES .41
8.1 INTRODUCTION .41
8.2 UPSTREAM AND DOWN STREAM .41
8.2.1   Environmental Management      ..41
8.2.2   Enhancementt of social econoinic activities  . .41
8.3 IRRIGATION LEVEL .42
8.3.1   Environmental nmanagemienit .42
8.3.2   Community based control of wildlife .42
8.3.3   Revisitinzg engineerinig designs antd/or constructionl stages .42
8.3.4   Imnproving health situation .42
8.3.5   Conistruction of cattle troughs .43
8.3.6   Monitorinig of water quality .43
9.  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (ESMP) .44
9.1 INTRODUCTION .44
9.2 OBJECTIVES .44
9.3   SUMMARY OF MAJOR ENIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
IDENTIFIED MITIGATION MEASURES           .       .45
9.4   DESCRIPTION OF ELEMENTS OF MONITORING PROGRAM               46
9.5   INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY                                52
9.6   INPUTS REQUIREMENTS AND EXPECTED OIJTPUTS .52
9.7   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR MITIGATION MEASURES 53
10. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS .57
10.1  CONCLUSION                                     ......................... 57
10.1.2  Specific coIcilusions .......................................  57
10.2  RECOMMENDATIONS ..........          ............... 58
REFERENCES ......................... 60
iv



List of Abbreviations
a.m.s.l        Average mean sea level
ASDS           Agriculture Sector Development Strategy
CBO            Community Based Organization
DALDO          District Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer
DED            District Executive Director
EA             Environmental Audit
ECU            Environmental Cell Unit
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
ERC            Environmental Resources Consultancy
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
GIS            Geographical information systems
IEE            Initial Environmental Examination
[PM            Integrated Pest Management
LDC            Less Developed Countries
MAFS           Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security
MWL            Ministry of Water and Livestock
MWLD           Ministry of Water and Livestock Development
NEMC           National Environmental and Managemenlt Council
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NIDP           National Irrigation Development Plan
NLUC           National Land Use Commission
NMA            National Meteorological Agency
PO-RALG        President's Office--Regional Administration and Local Government
PRA            Participatory Rural Appraisal
PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RBMSIIP        River Basin Management and Smallholder Irrigation Improvemenit Project
RDS            Rural Sector Development Strategy
SCAPA          Soil Conservation and Agro-forestry Project
SIIC            Smallholder Irrigation Improvement Component
SPSS           Statistical Package for Social Science software
TMA            Tanzania Meterology Agency
ToR            Terms of reference
TPRI           Tropical Pest Researchi Institute
UCLAS          University College of Land and architectural studies
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
URT            United Republic of Tanzania
VEO            Village Executive Officer
WEO            Ward Executive Officer
WMA            Wildlife Management Areas
WUA            Water Users Association
Zio            Zonal Irrigation Office
v



List of Tables, Figures, Plates, and Maps
Tables
Table 2.1:     Water use by source-type
Table 2.2      Distance to water sources
Table 2.3      Soil data
Table 2.4      Fertilizer use
Table 2.5      Gender occupational status
Table 2.6      Extension officer availability
Table 7.1:     Summary of key environmental and social/impacts for Kambi ya Tanga
Table 7.2:     Households in Mangalali hamlets
Table 7.3:     Population distribution in Mangalali 2003
Table 7.4:     Population trend: 1993-2003
Table 7.5:     Population distribution in Mkogwa village
Table 7.6:     Population distribution (age and sex)
Table 7.7:     Water Quality Analysis
Table 7.8      Soil Sites and Results
Table 7.9:     Crop pest, diseases and vermin
Table 7.10:    Application of fertilizers
Table 7.1 1:   Disease prevalence in Mangalali (Kalenga dispensary)
Table 7.12:    Disease prevalence in Mangalali (Kipera mission dispensary)
Table 7.13:    Sources of water in Mangalali village
Table 9.1:     Environmental and social impacts mitigation measures
Table 9.2:     Monitoring Plan
Table 9.3:     The Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
Table 9.4.     Implemenitationi plan time schedule
Figures
Figure 1. I    Basic Approach to the Study
Figure 7.1     Plot of annual flow series and 3 year moving average trend line
Figure 7.2:    Annual Percent deviation from Mean Annual Flow (MAF)
Maps
Map 2.1:       Mangalali irrigation scheme: Location map
Map 2.2:       Map of analysed water sample locations
Map 7.1:       Mangalali catchments area land use/vegetation maps
Map 7.2:       Map of analysed soil sample locations
Digital Elevation Models
DEM 2.1:       Mangalali digital elevation model, 2D view
DEM 2.2        Mangalali digital elevation model, 3D view
vi



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Government of Tanzania through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS) has taken
various initiatives to improve agricultural sector in the country. One of these initiatives is undertaking
of the River Basin Management and Smaliholder Irrigation Improvement Project (RBMSIIP) in context
with whicih there is the Smaliholder Irrigation Improvement Component (SIIC). RBMSIIP was
conceived out of a realisation that the nation's river basins are not being properly managed. This has
led to environmental degradation as well as loss of potentials of the river ecosystems. It was also
realised that when the degradation and potentials takes place, its' the smallholder irrigation schemes
which are the worst adversely affected.
For this reason, support to smaliholder traditional irrigation improvement and rehabilitation is one of
the major components of this programme. The SIIC component focuses on improving the management
of water resources and crop husbandry practices in existing smallholder irrigation schemes. (This can
be achieved througlh, among other things the improvemenit of natural resources, land and water, during
imlplementation of the rehabilitation and Lipgradinig of irrigation schemes.) SIIC is geared at
improvement of water management in smallholder irrigation schemes to ensure sustainable use of land
and water resources and ultimately yield increase with minimal environmental degradation.
Under the auspices of the SIIC a Scheme Environmental Assessment (SEA) as well as Environmental
Audit (EA) was carried out for the Mangalali Irrigation Scheme.
This report presents the findings of the study.
The objective of the study was identifying changes, assessing and quantifying environmental and
social impacts, preparing an environmental and social management plan as well as developing an
envir-onniental and social management and monitoring system. According to the ToR the expected
output is a set of two in one interrelated reports of the scheme; i.e. one on Environmental Audit (EA)
and another on Scheme Environmental Assessment (SEA) report.
An a ssessment has a Iso been done on compliance oft he scheme r e-improvement tot he Tanzanian
policies and legislation framework and the World Bank's relevant environimenital safe guard policies
(OP 4.01).
Different methodologies were employed, including the following:
*   Desk review of recommended documents
*   Questionnaire administration to key stakeholders
*   Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
At different stages of the study the following approaches and analytical tools were applied
*   Participatory data collection
*   Key informant interview
*   Trend analysis
*   Geographical information system
In description of the location of the scheme, the study found out that the Mangalali irrigation scheme
lies on river valley of the Little Ruaha about 18 km north-west of Iringa municipality along the
Iringa-ldodi road. Its coordinates are latitude  07°46' South and longitude 35°34 East, and are at an
altitude of about 1400m above mean sea level. It comprises the following villages, namely Kalenga.
Maangalali, Ulanda. Itamba, Kibebe. Lupalania, Msombwe, Mkonga, Ban;awarnu, and Kibera
Villages around Mangalali irrigation scheme have a total population of 4141 people. The main ethniic
groups in the scheme area are Wahehe, Wanyakyusa, Wasangu, Wawanji, Wabena and other smaller
groups. The majority of these are agriculturalists. Few are livestock keepers. A few Wasukuma have
migrated into the area and are engaged in both farming and livestock keeping.
The land use in the adjacent villages of Mangalali is mainly irrigation as well as rain-fed cultivation
and grazing.
vii



The availability of reliable water is also likely to attract more people into Mangalali
Little Ruaha has a catchment area of about 5200km2. The maximum and minimum recorded flows of
the river are 775 and 2.8 cumecs in months of March and October respectively.
Water abstractions by upstream users for domestic purposes, irrigation and livestock are likely to
impact on the quality and quantity of water available to the scheme. Poor farming practices, especially
cultivation of crops close to the riverbanks, is increasing silt load in the river aiid causing siltation of
the irrigation structures.
The availability of good domestic water supply, coupled with good sanitation at Mangalali will
considerably reduce downstream water pollution from domestic uses. Drained water from the scheme
area is likely to be contaminated from activities carried out in the scheme area, including application of
agro-chemicals, and sharing irrigation water with livestock. The on-farm activities will thus form the
main source of pollution downstream.
Conflicts over water use have been recorded in the study area, especially in the dry season when river
flows are at the lowest.
In the past say 10 years, fuel wood was obtained i n the n earby forests. Deforestation for firewood,
opening of new farms and uncontrolled wild fires has led to a significant decrease in forested areas.
With t he irrigation structures i mprovement and prospects for higher i ncome e arnings from irrigated
agriculture, there is greater loyalty to the leadership of Water Associations. Since most of the people
are irrigators and members of the water associations, the latter has greater influence beyond irrigation
matters.
The following are some of the positive effects:
*   Crop production has improved a great deal
*   Water availability has improved with more areas obtaining water than used to be in before
improvement.
*   Strengthened existing Water Users Association.
*   Temporary employment opportULlities were created durinig the construction phase.
*   Some farmers have attended on farm training and exchange visits to other areas to share
experience with other farmers as well as learning new skills.
A summary of identified impacts differentiated at up-stream, down-stream and within scheme levels for
resulting from C hapter 7 and appropriate mitigation m easures are summarized in the Environmental
and Social Management Plan as follows:
viii



ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS                   MITIGATION MEASURES
Up-stream impacts:                                 Category :Environmental Management:
-   Demographic trend (population changes)         *   Watershed management
-   Hydrological changes                           *  Embarking on soil and water
-   Catchment degradation                             conservation and environmenital
-   Soil erosion                                      protection program in up-stream areas
* Embarking on afforestation and or
reforestation program
*  Strengthening enforcement of
abstraction regulations
Category:   Enhancement    of   social-
economic activities:
.  Promoting environmental conscioLisness
in all social -economic activities,
*  Strengthening mechanlisms for
controlled acquisition and of landuse-
related social-economic practices,
Downstream impacts:                                Category: Environmental Management:
-   Water quality                                  *  Improved water for drinking.
-   Waterborne disease
Category: Enhancement of social-
economic activities:
Category: Improving health situation
. Promoting awareness on waterborme
diseases, as well as HIV/AIDS,
.  Improving availability of health, water
and sanitation services.
Irrigation scheme level impacts                    Category: Environmental Management
-   Soil quality
-   Water quality                                  Training of Farmers and village extension
-   Wildlife                                       officers on good agronomic practices.
-   Fertilizers and pesticides use                 Training  of farmers in  operation  and
-   Waterborne disease                             maintenance of the irrigation system.
Conduct     environmental    awareness
campaigns and education to all water users.
Improved soil fertility management
* Community based control of wildlife
Category: Improving health situation
• Promoting awareness on waterborne
diseases, as well as HIV/AIDS,
. Improving availability of health, water
ix



and sanitation services
Category :Revisiting engineering designs
and/or construction stages
*  Reviewing designs and construction to
address arising siltation/sedimenitation
problems
*  Establishing modalities for
rehabilitation of destroyed structures,
The monitoring program comprises the following attributes: water quality, groundwater, soil
conservation, biodiversity, crop diseases, afforestationi, socio-economic and health indicators.
Additionally, the environmental audit main conclusions and recommendations are:
The Mangalali scheme lies in semi -arid area of Tanzania, where without irrigation, agriculture is
difficult to practice. In conclusion it was therefore found that scheme improvement has been very
beneficial to the local community. It is unfortunate that in this scheme, water potentiality is greater than
availability of land resources and wildlife e.g. hippos and monkeys destroy crops.
It is recommended that arrangements should be made to share experience and informationi from othier
partners in the area. The Iringa District could collaborate with these stakeholders in inpleinenitation of
environmental and social management plan, which are relevant to Mangalali irrigation scheme and
others in Rufiji River Basin
x



I
xi



1. BACKGROUND
1.1 INTRODUCTION
The Government of Tanzania, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security ( MAFS), has
undertaken various initiatives to improve the agriculture sector in the cOuntry. One of these initiatives
is the River Basin Management and Smallholder Irrigation Improvement Project (RBMSIIP). The
Smallholder Irrigation Improvement Component (SIIC) is included withini the scope of RBMSIIP.
RBMSIIP was developed in response to a water shortage crisis prevalent in many parts of the country.
Water demands often exceed available resources; this is especially true in the Pangani and Rufiji
basins.
Support to smallholder traditional irrigation improvement and rehabilitation is one of the major
components of this programme. This SIIC focuses on improving the management of water resources
and crop husbandry practices in existing smallholder irrigation schemes. This can be achieved through
among other things the improvement of natural resources (land and water) during implementationi of
the rehabilitation and upgrading of irrigation schemes.
This Li ndertaking is in line w ith the objectives of the N ational Irrigation D evelopmient P lan (NIDP),
which was formulated and adopted in 1994. The plan comprises a management and decision-making
framework based on comprehensive ranking of schemes within each management unit (river or
drainage basin).
Under NIDP the order of priority for irrigation development is as follows:
*   Improvement/rehabilitation of Traditional Smallholder Irrigation Schemes
*   Water Harvesting Technology
*   Opening of New Smallholder Schemes
*   Large Scale Irrigation Schemes for Private Sector.
SIIC is geared at improvement of water management in smallholder irrigation schemes to ensure
sustainable use of land and water resources and ultimately yield increase with minimum environmental
degradation. According to the World Bank environmental guidelines, irrigation schemes to be
improved in UPATAGWA and UPATAGWA basins are classified as category B. Under this category,
no major environmental impacts are expected and that only mitigation measures can be incorporated
into the scheme design, implementation and operation.
Under the auspices of the SIIC a feasibility study was carried out, resulting in the preparation of the
Project Implementation Plan for 1996/97 - 2001/02. The plan was produced in October 1996 and
contains an assessment of environmental issues accompanied with proposed environmental mitigation
measures.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, with advice from the World Bank is undertaking a
review study of the environmental assessments carried out by the Environmenital Cell Unit (ECU) in
conjunlction with the preparation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan. This report
presents the findings of the review that has been undertaken for the Mangalali Irrigation Scheme.
The report draws heavily on intensive field observation by the study team, during which discussions
were held with the farmers and other local people, Village and District officials and project staff. The
report is also based on the review of various existing documents.
1.2 UNDERSTANDING OF THE STUDY
1.2.1   Objective of the Study
The objective of the study is to get a better understanding of the present environmental conditions and
relevant i mpact a reas ( environmental a udit) within t he s cheme. Increased a wareness will allow for
improved monitoring of both negative and positive changes over time and will assist in the formulation
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



of more effective mitigation measures. The environmental aLidit will also be the basis for the
preparation of an environmental and social management plan and monlitorilng system.
Specifically, the study will Lindertake the following:
.   Assess and quantify baseline environimental and social conditions
.   Assess and quantify environimiienital and social impacts
.   CondLuct environmental audits in order to comply with existing Government of Tanzania and
World Bank environmental and safeguard policies
.   Prepare an environmental and social management plan
.   Develop an environmental and social management and monitoring systen
*   Conduct public consultations
More specifically, the study will undertake the following:
*   Assessment and quantification of baseline conditionls
*   Assessment and quantification of environmental and social impacts
*   Carrying environmental audits in order to comply with existing Government of Tanzania and
World Bank environmental and safeguard policies
*   Preparation of environmental and social management plan
*   Development of environmental and social management and monitoring system
*   Conducting public consultations
1.3     STRATEGIC APPROACH
The consultant's environmental audit of the Mangalali irrigation scheme was characterized by three
approaches: ecosystem, far/ning system and participatoryv. The basic approach of the study is
illustrated in Figure 1-1.
1.3.1   Ecosystem Approach
In view of the fact that the project activities are wholly based in a rural area, potential conflicts
between the project and the environment are likely to arise.  Thus, issues pertaining to the use of
natural resources (e.g. livestock grazing, agriculture, irrigation, water source protection, agro-forestry,
etc.) have to be studied.
In applying the ecosystem approach, the consultant not only focused on the Mangalali irrigation
scheme but also on all the ecosystems Lipstream and down stream that impact the environmental and
social characteristics of the area. To accomplish this, the study sought an understanding of all
activities taking place within the irrigation scheme's water catchment area. River pollution,
sedimentation, flash floods, deforestation, destabilization of riverbanks, erosion, salinity, land
degradation, and waterbome diseases (among others) are all contributing to degradation of the
catchment area. In suggesting mitigation measures, sustainable practices for the use of water and land
resources must be adopted to prevent and control environmental and social problems.
1.3.2   Farming System Approach
On the irrigation scheme level of the Mombo scheme, a farming system approach was used to describe
and analyse environmental and socio-economic conditions. Issues related to soil contamination, water
pollution, the use and dangers of pesticides and fertilizers, health, and others have been identified. It is
clear that the irrigation activities will transform village life and the whole farming system in the
Mangalali area.
The success of the proposed mitigating measures will therefore depend on community involvement,
improvement of the socio-economic situation, capacity building, and proper upgrading, mainteniance
and operation of the irrigation infrastructure. The latter should take into account the local environment
as well as the prevailing institutional, economic and social conditions.
2



1.3.3   Participatory Approach
A participatory approach was adopted in preparation for the enviroiiniental audit. This entailed seeking
information/experience from stakeholders (i.e. farmers, district and regional officers, R BMSIIP and
other institutions who have been iiivolved in the project). In order to ensire effective participation and
cooperation it was necessary to inform stakeholders prior to the audit of the environmental and socio-
economic problems to be addressed. Their inputs have contributed to the development of more
realistic and appropriate mitigation measures.
3



BASIC APPROACH TO THE STUDY
Figure 1.1
*vironmen &  Wat ro  qality Aoil 
/~~~~~~~~.          < ~~~~ Par-tici ator 
<  estehment 2  <   ~eate me  nJ  t       evl                       Focus gr-oups.  )
Environmn &                        ater quality, soil & >     (     Voices ul 
Socio-economnic                 socio-economnic     )             fin-mer
4~~~=~
Mitigation Maue      
i                                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Environmental & Social|
Management Plan 
4



1.4 METHODOLOGY
The methodology follows Tanzanian policy and legislation and the World Bank's policies on
environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01 and related policies and guidance documents).
Available reference documents were reviewed for purposes of identifying pertinent environmental and
social issues. Information was obtained on the Mangalali irrigation scheme before and after
construction as well as during operation. Several meetings were held with SIIP project staff. In
particular, the ECU team, which was involved in the Scheme Environmental Assessment, was
consulted to discuss background and potential issues. Subsequently, a ten-day field mission was
conducted in August bythe studyteam and members ofECU. The team was used to: 1) complete
further fieldwork at various sites in the Mangalali irrigation scheme, 2) collect additional information,
3) work with the irrigation scheme management team, and 4) to liaise with the various stakeholders
including the district officials. During the field visits, the Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan for
disseminating the results of the Draft Environmental Audit were developed with the ECU staff.
1.4.1  Consultation
Publ ic c onsultations t ook p lace i n t wo phases. T he f irst phase t ook place d uri ng t he E nvironimilenital
Audit (EA) preparation process. This initial stage allowed for the identification of the key
environmental issues and involved the gathering of information on stakeholder concenis and views of
potential environmental and social impacts. During the secondly phase, consultations allowed
stakeholders to review findings and give their comments.
1.4.2  Analytical Tools
The following methodologies were applied in the process of the study:
*   Participatory data collection
*   Key informant interviews
*   Socio-economic and environmental analysis
*   Trend analysis of river flow and rainfall
*   Water and soil quality analysis
*   Geographical information system
Participatory Data Collection
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) involves problem analysis, ranking, proposal planning, role
assigning and timing. The role playing consisted of a facilitator who played the role of an advisor on
the d ifferent matters r aised d uring the workshop (those which t he t eam was not i nformed a bout or
aware of). In the final analysis, a Logical Framework Approach workshop (also known as ZOPP)
produced the Environmental Action Plan for the irrigation scheme.
Key Informant Interview
In addition to group discussions, information was also obtained from key informants. These were
generally staff from the Zonal Irrigation Office (ZIO), the District Executive Director (DED), farmers
of the Mangalali scheme, village officials (including village leaders), and others (agriculture and
irrigation officers who are residents in the community). Any inconsistent information was cross-
checked to ensure accuracy. Various officials conducted the crosschecking of information while
members of the study team facilitated the group discussions.
5



Socio-economic and Environment
A total of 96 household questionnaires (sample size) have been administered using the random
sampling method. This represents 20 Percent of houselholds of the study area (upstream, down stream
and scheme level) 80 percent (80 questionnaires) of selected sample size has been administered at
Mangalali village (scheme level), where as 10 percent (10 questionnaires) has been administered at
Mkoga village (upstream village) and 20 percent (10 questionnaires) has been administered at Kipera
village (downstream village).
Quanititative data related to socio-economic and environment from the scheme was collected and
analysed using SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science) software.
Trend Analysis of River Flow and Rainfall
An investigation was conducted upstream and downstream on rivers that feed the scheme. Both
statistical and visual interpretations of variability analysis were applied. To further reveal any existence
of severe abstraction or flow regime changes, variability analysis was done month to month. Any
possible causes for the change in the flow regime were quantified. In this regard, annual rainfall
variability for stations in or around the study area was noted. Three approaches were followed to tackle
the imipacts problem:
*   Visual interpretation - Understanding and interpreting the annual time series and percent deviation
time series from the annual mean.
*   Testing randomness on the annual and monthly time series data - This test indicates that if the null
hypothesis tested for randomness is accepted, no flow regime change prevails in the record;
otherwise, it shows the flow regime is changed or there is a likely impact on the river upstream or
downstream.
*   Testing of breaks - At times a break or jump may be observed in ihe time series of flow. If, for
example, a huge volume of water is suddenly diverted to an irrigalion area, segments before and
after the diversion can have different means.
Subsequent sections provide scheme level variability analysis and interpretation of the results for both
flow and rainfall.
The flow and rainfall data were collected from various sources. Rainfall data were collected partly from
Tanzaniia Meteorology Agency (TMA) and partly from    the Ministry of Water and Livestock
Development (MWL). Flow data were partly collected from the Ministry of Water and Livestock
(MWL) and partly from previous reports.
Water and Soil Analysis
Water and soil samples were analysed at the laboratory of the Department of Environmental
Engineering, University College of Lands and Architectural Studies (UCLAS) and Mlingano Soil
Laboratory. Procedures and analysis were done according to the International Standards of Water and
Soil Analysis.
Geographical Information System (GIS)
Overlay maps and GIS were used to analyse sensitive/significant/relevant features of the irrigation
scheme area. Attributes and features that were mapped and analysed included water bodies, land use
patterns, vegetation cover, and cultural structures. The technique involved the physical overlaying of
individLial topographic maps to provide a composite picture of the overall environmental and social
sitiation. Using ArcView 3.1, analysis was carried out to link spatial and non-spatial data.
6



1.5 LIMITATIONS
Data quantification proved a difficult exercise due to the following reasons:
(i) There was insufficient baseline data related to environmental and socio-economic parameters.
(ii) Updated meteorological and hydrological data were not available.
7



2       BASELINE            CONDITIONS              FOR       THE        IRRIGATION
SCHEME AREA
2.1      THE PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
2.1.1   Location
Tlhe Mangalali ilTigation scheme is located in lJlanda ward. Kalenga division in lringa Rural (listP-ct of
Iringa region It lies about 18 Kumi North West of Iringa Municipality along the road which leads to the
Ruaha National Park. It lies at latitude 07 46 South, and longittude 35 34TEast. Mangalali scheiie is
situated at an altitude of approximately 1400m above sea level.
Map 2. 1: Mangalali irTigation scheme: Location map
.,<.nce     ~~78orj           726rn            7CalO            *9 C,71_3r
+
(         ~~~B-kground
Ir .- 'Da/}                                                  t    
--                                  r  v  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~75J
o Irl ie . +r. + ! 3 * < > 1 _~~~~~~~~~~~~



DEM 2.1:       Mangalali digital elevation model, 2D view
Digital Bevabo Model (DEM)
!                                         N
R-.
isIS" IU7
J 1383.U1l
I 126:1393
58.  _  A 6872
DEM 2.2        Mangalali digital elevation model, 3D view
a
9



2.2     THE BIOPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
2.2.1   Climatic Data
Collection of meteorological data is the responsibility of the Tanzania Meteorological Agency (TMA)
Data is collected at the local stations and sent to agency's Head Office in Dar es Salaamn for processing
and storage. However, in several cases, raw data is available at the stations. For stations, which are
operated by the Ministry of Water (MOW), data is available at the Regional Water Offices and at the
Ubungo headquarter office in Dar es Salaam. There was no available climate data for Mangalaii.
2.2.2   Water Resources
This scheme draws water from the Little Ruaha River upstream of the gauge station (IKA31). Little
Rualia has catchment area of 5,200 sq. km. The maximum and minimurn recorded flows of the river are
775 aiid 2.8 cumecs in March and October respectively. The water right of the scheme is 1 60. 1/sec
during wet period and 13.6 I/sec during dry period. From the water availability for the scheme point of
view, there is abundant water in the river.
Domestic water
In Mangalali people get domestic water from river, tape water and wells more than half of inter people
indicated to have sufficient water in the village. The higher percentage 48.7% gets water from river,
35.5% enjoys tape water while 15.8% fetches water from the wells table--shows the water source
Table 2.1       Water use by source-type
Source of water                    Percent
River                              48.7
Tape water                         35.5
Well                               15.8
Total                              100.0
Most people 92.1% fetch water in the distance between 0 - 1000 metres and the rest fetches water in a
distance of more than I km. Table 2.2 indicates the distance in relation to the percentage number of
people
Table 2.2       Distance to water sources
Distance                           Percent
0 - 500                            77.6
501 - 1000                         14.5
1501 - 2000                        6.6
2001 - 2500                        1.3
Total                              100.0
Up stream
More people 91.7% gets water from Ruaha River which i s near by c ompared to N zihi R iver w here
about 8.3% of people gets their water. 58.3% of interviewed people appreciated to have enough water
for domestic consumption.
Down stream
In down stream more people 80% appreciated to have enough domestic water compared 58.3% of
upstream residents. There is equal distance between Nzihi and Ruaha River and greater percentage of
people gets water from the distance of less than 500 metres.
Domestic Water Supply
10



The villagers depend on irrigation water for domestic use. The quality of water for domestic
consumption is questionable due to pollution. The water does not receive any kind of treatment prior to
its use by humans. Livestock also use water directly from irrigation canals. There are no specific
watering points for livestock.
Water Distribution
There has been some continuous tension and conflict between the irrigators over distribution of water.
Water quality
A total of seven (7) water samples were collected from the Mangalali irrigationi scheme. The sampling
locations were systematically chosen so as to track on the quality of water as it trickles down the irrigation
scheme. Samples were taken from the intake and downstream end. Others were collected within the
irrigation farms (channels) themselves. More detailed analysis on water quality is discussed in Chapter 7
l l



7l
~~~~~~ O-
1G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -(C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-



Water use conflict
The nature of the water u se conflict at the Mangalali scheme i s t hat it i s a pparently inadequate t o
suffice demand of the users.
2.2.3   Soil
Soil survey was carried out on the 30th August 2003. The survey was carried during dry season there
fore it was somehow impossible to asses the crop yield. The slopes range from less than 1% to about
1.5 % .the soils are moderately deep and class 4 well drained .There are some patches with stone and
rock out crop as well as salt patches, which covers hardly 5 ha. Crops grown under irrigation are maize
beans and vegetables. The slopes range from less than 1% to about 1.5 %/s, the soils are moderately deep
and class 4 well drained. There are some patches with stone and rock out crop as well as salt patches,
which covers hardly 5 ha. Crops grown under irrigation are maize beans and vegetables.
Table 2.3       Soil data
LOCATION      1               2               3                      4                     5
Top     Sub      Top     Sub     Top soils  Sub soils  Top soils   Sub soils
soils   soils   soils   soils
Soil    Soil    Soil    Soil     Soil      Soil depth  Soil depth  Soil      Soil    Soil
depth   depth   depth   depth    depth     40 - 60 cm  0-20 cim    depth     depth   depth
0-20    40-60   0-20    40- 60  0-20 cii                           40-60     0- 20   0-20
cm      cm      cm       cm                                        cm        cm      cmIn
Sand %        56      39       75     64      84         78          51          29        69      55
Silt %        I 1      15     4        11      6         7           22          61        14      40
Clay %        33      46      21      25       10        15          27          10        17      5
Texture        Sand   Sand    Sand    Sand    Sand       Sand  clay  Sand loam   Loamy     Sand    Loam
Clay    Clay     Clay   clay    clay      loam                     sand      loam    y sand
loam    loam    loam    loam_
Ph   in soil  7.1     7.2     7.0     7.2     7.2        6.2         7.0         7.6       7.0     7.3
water 1: 2.5                                                     _
comnmients    neutral  neutral  neutral  neutral  neutral  Slightly  neutral     Mildly    neutral
acidic                  alkaline
Available  P  1.64    0.94             1.05   0.24                               17.91
Olsen mg/kg   low     low             low      low                               high
P      Bray                  0.60                       0.92        0.27                  0.31
mg/kg low                     very                       very low    very low
low
EcmS/cm       0,04    0.04    0.03     1.99   0.02       0.02        0.10        0.18
1: 2.5       non      non     non     non     non       non saline  non saline  non1
saline  saline  saline  saline  saline                             saline
Organic       1.48    0.88    0.88    0.45    0.53       0.40        0.10        0.13
carbon %      mediu   low     low     very    very low   very low    very low    very low
m                        low
Total N       0.12    0.10    0.10    0.03    0.04       0.03        0.10        0.13
%            Low      very    very    very    very low  very low    very low    low
low     low     low
C/N Ratio     12      9        9       15      13        13          10          8
comments      Good    Good     Good    Moder   Good      Good        Good        Good
quality  quality  quality  ate  quality    quality     quality     quality
quality
Cation        13.73    16.03   11.93  27.82    1.34      1.84        18.65       31.43
exchange      mediu   mediu   low      high    very low  very l ow   medium      high
capacity CEC  m       m
Excli Ca me   8.0     9.0     7.9     20.8    0.4        0.3         15.2        30.4
/100 gms      mediu   mediu   mediu    very   low       low          high        very
m       m       m       high                                       high
Exch mg me    5.4     7.4     3.2     8.0     0.4        0.4         2.9         7.2
13



/100 gms      high    very    high    very    low       low         medium
high    ____highl 
Exch K   me   0.55    0.36    0.37    0.34    0.51      0.60        0.49        0.40
/100 gns
Exch Na me    0.19    0.39    0.58    0.63    0.16      0.04        0.25        0.31
/100 gins     low     mediu   mediu   mediu  low        very low   low          medium
m       ni      ni
1.38    2.43    1.34    2.26    11.94    2.17        .013         10.19
ESP%          Non     Non     Non     Non     Moderat   Non sodic   Non sodic   Slightly
sodic   sodic   sodic   sodic   ely sodic                         sodic
Base          100     100     100     100     100       75          100         100
saturation                  _                               _
2.2.4   Biodiversity
Mangalali scheme is mainly surrounided by human settlements (i.e. rapidly growing Mangalali
Township) and farmlands with very little woodlands left. Over many years the area has been used for
agricultural activities. There are still a few wild animals around, mainly monkeys and hippos.
2.3 THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.3.1   Population
The area has residents of varied ethnic groups such as Wahehe, Wasangu, and Wanyakyusa etc. Total
population of Mangalali is estimated to be over 3231.
2.3.2   Agriculture practices
The farm size ranges from 0 - 6 hour per ha majority of farmers 41% occupy less than 2 ha 49% hold 2
to 4 ha while 19% cultivate 4 to 6 ha.
The main crops cultivated in Mangalali scheme is paddy, maize, legumes and vegetables 41% of
interviewed farmers use improved seeds during planting, however 59% plant local available seeds.
Also farners use farm yard and industrial fertilizer in farming as most common industrial fertilizers
used are CAN, UREA, WPK and DAP.
Table 2.4       Fertilizer use
Type of fertilizer            Percent of farmer use     Percent not use
CAN                                      71                    29
UREA                                     24                    76
NPK                                      40                    60
DAP                                      28                    72
Livestock
Farmers i n Mangalali do keep different types their food c onsumption and for s alary to get i ncome.
Livestock keepers are organized and have demarcated specific areas in the main canal for livestock
drinking.
Similar with some other irrigation schemes, residential areas of the Marigalali scheme are not far away
from the farms.
2.3.3    Occupation /land use
14



While a large segment, 94 percent of the population is engaged in farming, 6 percent carry out other
activities such as trading, carpentry, and formal employment e.g. teachers, for their livelihood. This is
summarised in table 2.5 below.
Table 2.5      Gender occupational Status
Usual occupation   Sex                           Total
Female       IMale
Farming            52.0%         42.1%           94.1%
2.3.4  Markets and Marketing Information
The findings show that farmers' access to market and market information is not a major problem at the
Mangalali scheme. It was found out that percent of the farmers depend on local buyers, 71.8% while
13.2 percent sell directly to consumers, and only 28.9 percent sell to non-local at Iringa town buyers
and the rest produce for their own domestic consunmption.
2.3.5   Education
Mangalali population constitutes people with different levels of education background.
Existing facilities near the irrigation scheme
There is I public primary school within the scheme area, but it caters mainly for pupils both outside
and inside the scheme. There are health facilities within the scheme and outside the area. Generally
speaking, farmers in Mangalali area lack adequate social services in the vicinity of the scheme area.
2.3.6   Energy Supply
Fuel-wood is the most energy used for cooking by the majority as it is used by 68% of people. Only 3%
use charcoal considered expensive, the rest use both firewood, kerosene and charcoal are the main
sources of energy for cooking. Women use donkeys for ferrying the fuel-wood. Some use their heads to
carry the fuel-wood. This activity takes the women about four to six hours in a day In addition to the
drudgery of the activity on the part of women and girls; it also consumes time that they would
otherwise use for farming or for other socio-economic activities. The common type of cooker used for
cooking is a setting arrangement of three stones (mafiga matatu) whichL use more fire wood compared
modern firewood stove which is not popular to the village as only 1% of people found to have
improved firewood stove which use small amount of firewood.
There is no electricity in the village.
2.3.7   Extension Services
The farmers enjoy extension services. Villagers are advised on the type of fertilisers to use, depending
on the type of crops they are planting and on the type of pesticides.
77.6% of interviewed people appreciated the presence of extension officer while 22.4% does not aware
if there is any extension officer in the village as indicated in the table below
15



Table 2.6      Extension officer availability
Opinion                 Percentage
Yes                    | 77.6
No                      22.4
Total                    100.0
The availability of extension officer in the village are in questionable to some of interviewed people as
72.4% enjoy the extension services while 27.6% where not reached by the extension officer.
2.3.8   Social Capital
There are few organizations operating in the area where all of them are community based. They are a
co-operative society, SACCOS, and a religious based organisation which operate in the area. The
survey showed that, 38.4 percent of the interviewed people are members of these organisations in
contrast with the 61.6 percent that are not. Results further show that eight percent are aware on the
presence of credit institutions, where as the rest, 92 percent, has no awareness in regard to the presence
of credit institutions.
2.4     DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS
In villages around Mangalali performance of traditional sites are common and that among
environmenitally sensitive areas of special/unique scientific and/or cultural value, are thick forests and
graveyards. No trees are allowed to be cut in there areas, and that for some families are prohibited to
eat/fish cer-tain type of fishes.
16



3. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES AND STAKEHOLDER
3.1     IRINGA        RURAL         DISTRICT        SCHISTOMIASIS              CONTROL
PROGRAM (CUAMM)
In three divisions of the Iringa district Council where there are irrigaticn schemes; namely: Kalenga,
Idodi and Pawaga, bilharzias is a major problem.
In particular the Kalenga division where the Mangalali scheme is situated, 28% of the children who
were examined were found to be affected. Within Mangalali village itself, out of 413 primary school
chi ldren about 107 of them i.e. representing about 25.9% were found to be positive.
In view of the above outlined problem, the Government of Tanzania (through the Iringa Rural District
Council) in collaboration with the Governnient of Italy embarked on the CUAMM project.
3.2 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF THE USANGU WETLAND AND
ITSCATCHMENT
The Sustainable Management of the Usangu Wetland and its Catchment (SMUWC) project began in
September 1998 in response to seasonal drying up of the Great Ruaha River at Msembe in the Ruaha
National Park, This phenomenon started in 1993. At that time there was water shortages at Mtera
reservoir, which in turn led to severe national electrical shortages in the mid-1990s. These conditionis
were attributed to land use activities in the Usangu catchment. With these points in mind, the SMUWC
project was initiated with two broad thrusts:
*   Conducting a technical investigation into what was happening to the water, and the causes of the
problem
*   Carry out a community outreach programme, to understand human use and management of water
and other natural resoLirces, and to understand how these might be changed to release more water
to the Great Ruaha River.
In the long term, these were to come together in the development of a managemenit strategy for
Usangu, to be agreed on by all stakeholders and informed by SMUWC findings. The project seeks to
bring these stakeholders together to develop a shared vision of the future. This will lead to a strategic
framework for Usangu that will prioritize and guide activities, encourage cross-sectoral co-ordination,
and ensure the incorporation of environmental considerations into development planning at an early
stage.
3.3     WATER USERS ASSOCIATION
Mangalali irrigation scheme has only a Water User's Association as a Commullity Based Organization.
The association is called Umoja wa Umwangiliaji Mangalali. The asscciation has a committee of 12
people, 6 males and 6 females.
There is also a SACCOS. Still in its formative stage and women's organization knowin as Umoja wa
Wanawake U.W.T (different from the nation's Umoja wa Wanawake U.W.T)
17



3.4     STAKEHOLDER'S ROLE
3.4.1   Identified stakeholders
In order of vested powers in decision-making the roles of enforcement and the identified stakeholders
are as follows:
*   District Council's i.e., through the District Executive, Director (DED) with his/her relevant
committee and functional officers e.g. District Agricultural and Livestock Development Officer
(DALDO), District Water Engineer, District Council Development office, etc.
*   Ward Executive Officers i.e., through the Ward Executive Officers (WEO) with their relevant
committee and functional offices, e.g. Ward Agricultural Officer.
*   Village Executive Officer i.e. through the village Executive Officers (VEO) with their relevant
committee and functional officer e.g. Village Agricultural Officer.
*   Water users association.
*   Farmers' groups/associations.
*   Private organization, e.g. NGOs, CBOs, etc
*   Donors
3.4.2   Analysis of stakeholders
In general for sake of sustainability influential role of all the identified stakeholders is synergetic. For
example, at the highest level, the District Council chaired by the coLincil chairperson with all its
relevant committees and functional officers are fully involved so that they can put in their agenda and
plans financial issues of the scheme. In that way further development of the scheme gets the sLipport
and the authority it requires.
Likewise however, even at the lowest level (i.e. at village government/farmers associations level) the
stakeholders need to be fully involved because being at grass-roots, they are capable of providing
solution on a routine bases.
3.4.3   Involvement of stakeholders in environmental audit and implementation of ESMP
In view of the above therefore different stakeholders were and will be involved in environimienital
auditing and implementation of ESMP as follows:
Water users association
Managinlg water resources within schemes
Farmer's associations/groups
Carrying out routine activities/controlling actions
Identifying/formulating required action to VEO.
Saving and credit organisations.
Village Executive Office (VEO)
Grass-roots representation of local government system.
Mobilizes, receives, identified required action and forwards them to WEO for considerations.
Ward Executive Officer (WEO)
Grass roots representative of local government system.
Mobilizes, receives checks and controls identified required action and forwards them to District
Council (throughi relevant its committees).
District Council
District development planning.
Mobilizes, receives and deliberates identified required action and incorporates  them into the district
development plan for financing.
Finance/overseas implementation of the identified actions.
18



Private Organization/NGOs/CBOs
Promotes identification and implementationi of identified action.
Helps to secure fuLiding of the actions.
Donor agency
Promotes development cooperation.
Finances/overseas implementation of action plans
3.4.4   Ensuring incorporation of concern of stakeholders in ESMP
In order to ensure the concerns of stakeholders are incorporated in ESMP, it is proposed that the
following measures be taken after finalization/submission of the ESMP:
Seeking government approval of ESMP
This government approval of ESMP is imperative because the councils are not allowed to implement a
plan unknown to the government. Under these circumstances the ESMP has to be approved firstly by
MAFS, NEMC and then by PO-RALG.
Dissemination of the ESMP to relevant district
After government approval, then the ESMP should be disseminated to relevant district for
implementation. This should be followed by a series of workshops, seminar, etc. to enable public
discussion on the ESMP. The discussion should start at district level then percolate to lower and lower
levels as indicated above.
19



4.       COMPLIANCE WITH TANZANIA'S POLICIES, LEGAL
FRAMEWORK AND WITH WORLD BANK'S SAFE
GUARD POLICIES
4.1     NATIONAL POLICIES
Relevant policies with a bearing on agricultural and rural development in general, and irrigation in
particular, and therefore Mangalali irrigation scheme, have been examined. These include the National
Environment policy, the Land policy, the National Water policy, the Energy policy, the National
Agriculture policy, Draft Rural Development Policy, Poverty Reduction Strategy, Draft Rural
Development Strategy, Agriculture Sector Development Strategy, the Forest policy and the Wildlife
policy. These policies affect direct key sectoral activities and were examined because they
automatically affect important land uses in the area vis-a-vis: agriculture, water, livestock, energy,
forest and wildlife.
4.1.1   National Environment Policy of 1997
Implementation of the river basin management and smallholder irrigation project and particularly the
irrigation schemes under operation is consistent with the overall objectives of the National
Environment Policy. The policy provides a framework for multi-sectoral participation and cooperation
to achieve sustainable development; and seeks to ensure sustainable and equiitable use of resources for
meeting the basic needs of present and futire generationis, without degrading the environmental
resource base or risking health and safety. The policy emphasize the need to prevent and cont-ol
degradation of land, water, vegetation and air which constitute our life support systems; to conserve
and enhance our natural and man made heritage; including biological diversity; to improve the
condition and productivity of degraded areas including rural and urban settlements; to raise public
awareness and uinderstanding of the essential linkages between environment and development and
promote individual and community participation in environmental action, among others.
Furthermore the policy calls for improved agricultural practices, and better utilizationi of the scarce
water for irrigation, ensure efficiency, minimize looses and avoid salinisation as well as proper use of
agrochemicals to minimize reduce/pollution of water sources.
The design, re-construction and operation of the schemes have taken into account the above
considerations. Additionally, planned training of farmers in effective and efficient management of
water resources intends to contribute to achievement of the objectives of the environment policy.
4.1.2   Agriculture Policy 1997
The implementation of the RBM-SIIP on the basis of farmer groups and rural community participation
is consistent with the Agricultural and Livestock Policy (ALP) of 1997, which provides policy
guidance on the development of the agricultural sector. The policy seeks to ensure that the di-ection
and pattern o f d evelopment in the s ector m eets e conomic, so cial and e nvironmental o bjectives. T he
policy aims at accelerated growth of production and exports through among others, assuring national
food security, developing and introducilig new techinologies which will increase productivity of labour
and land; promote integrated and sustainable use and management of natiral resources and providing
agricultural support services.
The smallholder irrigation projects aims at providing agricultural support services; improve income of
the rural poor, promote rational use of water resources and introduce appropriate technologies among
others.
4.1.3   Land Policy of 1995
The N ational Land Policy of 1995 provides i ncentives for e fficient use of land and its r esources. It
seeks to promote and ensure a secure land tenure system, encourage optimal use of land resources and
facilitate broad-based social and economic development without up setting or endangering the
ecological balance of the environment. Farmer groups and communities participating in the project
have acquired customary rights of occupancy from their respective villages and some villages are
20



processing granted rights. Both granted and customary rights of occupancy secure land ownershiip add
incentives for farmers to maintain and develop their farms accordingly, reduce land use conflicts and
increase the value of land.
4.1.4   Water Policy of 2002
The National Water Policy (2002) provides a comprehensive framework for promoting optimal,
sustainable a nd equitable development and uLse o f w ater resources for sustainiable d evelopment. T he
policy seeks to ensure supply of good quality of water to meet domestic, environmental and other
priority development purpose. Emphasis is placed on the need to ensure more efficient utilization of
existing water resources through institutionial improvements, proper soil management to prevent soil
erosion and flooding and improved monitoring to control water quality and contamination from
industrial sewerage and excessive use of pesticides and fertilizers. These objectives requite on
integrated and holistic planning and managemenlt i n areas, water use and disposal of effluents. The
planned project objectives are supportive of the objectives of the water policy throughi education,
awareness and training on better agricultural practices, effective and efficient utilization of water, water
conservation, and application of agrochemicalsto minimnize pollution ofwater sources to mentioni a
few.
4.1.5   Forest Policy of 1998
The main objective of the National Forestry Policy is to enhance contribution of the forestry sector in
sustainable socio-economic development of the country, as well as conservation and management of
the natural resource-base for the benefit of both the represent and future generations. In view of the
general objective, the policy focuses its intervention in the following foLir area (i) forest land
management
Conservation of the forestry resources in the upper catchment is crucial for ensuring sustainable flows
of water for irrigation purposes and other uses. The establishment of the scheme is thus an extra
incentive for undertaking conservation measures in the catchment area of Mt. Meru.
4.1.6   Wildlife Policy of 1998
The main Wildlife Policy is to seek involvement of a broader section of the society in wildlife
conservation, and in particular the rural local communities, as well as the private sector with only a
role of stimulating and duly guiding both the rural local communities and the private sector by
administering, r egulating and p romoting management of wildlife resources. I n view of t his general
objective, the policy facilities it interventions in the following area: (i) wildlife protection (i.e.
incorporating management and development of protected areas) (ii) wildlife utilization (i.e.
incorporating promotion of establishment of Wildlife Management Areas conservation as well as
management measures and (iii) international corporation and coordination. Within the scheme there
are no wildlife management areas. The developments have also concentrated on the already existing
scheme, with therefore little likelihood of encroaching into wildlife areas.
4.1.7   Energy Policy of 2002 (Draft)
Sufficient and efficient supply of energy is crucial for national development. The objective of the
energy policy is therefore to contribute to the national socio-economic development process by
providing an efficient energy production, procurement, transportation, distribution and end-use system
in an environmentally sound manner and with due regard to gender issues.
Provision of energy for scheme farmers in a convenient manner will allow more time for women
farmers to participate in farm activities. It is against this background that communities are being
encouraged to use fuel-efficient charcoal and wood stoves.
4.1 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
The smallholder irrigation project will be implemented in the overall context legal framework that
governs agricultural and rural development. Some of the few legal framewor-ks that are supportive of
the project include but not limited to: -
21



4.2.1   Environment Legislation
Currently Tanzania lacks a single comprehensive environmental legal framework or environmental
law. Efforts are underway to prepare such a framework. To-date, the management of environment and
natural resources is governed by fragmented sectoral pieces of legislation that are yet to be fully
harmonized.
There are some guidelines on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and the Government is
working on an act to make ElAs mandatory for all development projects. In this regard an
environimenital legislation aimed at "promoting and managing environimilenital conservation in the
country" is in the making
The term "environmental" legislation incorporates nearly one hundred acts and ordinances and several
additional subsidiary legislation from all sectors of the economy, which affect the environment.
However, given the broad policy goal of achieving sustainable development and the specific policy
objectives, issues of unsustainable utilization of resources, deforestation, desertification, salinization,
land degradation, pollution of water resources, and impacts on rLiral land use have been emphasized.
The design and o perational st rategy o f the M angalali s cheme h ave taken these legal considerations
into accoulit.
4.2.2   NEMC Act of 1983
This act establishes the National Environment Management Council as a statutory body responsible for
advising and coordinating environmental management issues. Among the many functions of the
Council, the act seeks to provide a framework for evaluation of existing and proposed development
policies, programmes, plans and activities of both public and private that are likely to affect the
environment and recommend measures to ensure adequate account of environmental effects.
Furthermore, the act provides for the specification of environmental standards, norms, criteria,
guidelines for the protection and maintenance of the quality of the environment, cooperation between
government, local authorities and bodies engaged in environmental programmes and stimulates pLiblic
and private participation in environmental and natural resource management.
Relevant legislation pertaining to agricultural development in general, and irrigation in particular and
how it relates to the proposed projects, including Mangalali irrigation schenie was examined. The
following are the sectoral environment legislations.
4.2.3   Land Act no.4 and Village Land Act of 1999
Both laws became operational in May 2001, following the approval of their regulationis. The acts seek
control land use and clarify controversial issues pertaining to ownership of land and land-based
resources, transactions on land and land administration. The new land act identifies three categories of
land i.e. village (customary land); public/gazetted land (i.e. national parks, forest reserves) and general
land that does not fall in any of the above two categories for private investment.
Implementation of the project is consistent with both legislations. For purposes of controlling land in
the village and to protect it from alienation to foreign investors, village governments would be given
documents indicating their boundaries. However, in order to give value to land there is a need for
completion of the process of land survey and demarcation which amounts to land titling and allocation
to different land use categories to speed up investment in agriculture.
Land allocation at the Mangalali scheme was guided by existing land tenure arrangements which are
in line with these legal provisions. Both men and women have received irrigation plots.
4.2.4   Wildlife Act 1974 (with amendments of 1978)
Wildlife act provides for protection, conservation, development, regulations aiid control in both
acquisition and utilization of products of both fauna and flora. To this end, therefore the Act stipulates
"modus operandi", i.e. required restrictions in the following areas (i) in protected areas: namely game
22



reserves, game controlled areas, partial game reserves, national parks, etc. (ii) proper procedures in
hunting, capturing and photographing of wildlife and (iii) proper handling of trophies. Furtlhermore, in
the wake of the Wildlife policy, which stipulates for villagers' involvement in Wildlife Management
Areas (WMA), the Act also provides modalities and procedures for designation, operation and
involvement of local communities in the management of the WMAs. Within the schenme there are no
wildlife management areas.
4.2.5   Water Acts of 1974
As mentioned before the Water Acts principally seek to ensure that water is utilized without sectoral
conflicts, and without causing pollution. This is the spirit of both Act no. 42 of 1974 and Act no. 10 of
1981. They were enacted to control and protect water resources. The legislation defines "water" as all
water flowing over the surface of the ground or contained or flowing in or from a spring or stream or
natural lake, swamp or beneath a watercourse. The Act places a regime of water rights to govern
access to water use. Pollution control norms and standards are embodied in the water rights.
Apart from incorporating pollution control and having prevention conditionality in the water rights,
the Act goes a step further by putting in place a regime in consent with discharge of effluent. Under
Section 15 A (1) of the Act, no person may discharge of effluent from any commercial, industrial or
other trade waste systems into receiving waters without a consent duly granted by a Water Officer.
The Act also contains two schedules, which set standards for receiving waters and effluent. The
Mangalaii irrigation has a waterright in which the rights and obligations of scheme operators, the
farmers, are stipulated.
4.2.6   Forest Act 1974
The Forest Act deals with the protection of forests and forest products in forest reserves and
restrictions and prohibitions in forest reserves. The forest management plans are administered under
the Forest Ordinance (1957). Any contravention of the restrictions and prohibition is considered an
offence under this ordinance and subject to enforcement. However, the law is being revised to meet
new requirements under a new Forest Policy. There is no forest land within the schenme area.
4.2.7   The Town and Country Planning Ordinance, Cap 378 of 1956
The Town and Country Planning Ordinance Cap 378, Part IV provides for control of urban
development while implementing a scheme of land development. Important aspects include the
designation and allocation of adequate land for solid waste disposal in any urban scheme. The law
further stipulates the design of a good sewerage system to manage liquid waste from various major
water consumers. The law empowers local authorities to enforce such schemes and punishments as
stipulated in the Act. The law further empowers neighbours and any individual to take to court anyone
who injuriously affects others due to his/her unhygienlic activities. The Water Users' Association at the
scheme m ay pass by-laws t o t his e ffect. H owever, t hey would need su pport from I ocal a uthlorities,
particularly with regard to enforcement.
4.2.8   Local Government Act (District and Urban Authorities) Acts of 1982
This Act provides detailed responsibility for urban and district councils in the administration of their
day-to-day activities. Waste management is pointed out as one of the activities to be managed by
urban authorities. This Act is the backbone of the Village Government's operation, powers,
responsibilities of various local authorities and structure. The law requires that the Village Assemblies
act as the apex authorities in decision-making processes at the village level. However, such meetings
rarely take place in most villages, leaving decisions to be made by few leaders without having
consulted with the village public. This being the case, many Village Governments fail to bring about
development for their villagers.
4.2.9   Land Use Planning Commission Act of 1984
The National Land Use Commission (NLUC) was established tinder this Act as the prinicipal advisory
organ of the Govemment on all matters related to land use. Among other things, it recommends
measures to ensure that the Government policies, including those for development and conservation of
23



land are in harmony. It also takes adequate account of their effects on land use and seeks for the
advancement of scientific knowledge of changes in land use; it encourages the development of
technology to prevent, or minimize adverse effects that endanger man's health and his/her welfare: it
also specifies standards, norms and criteria for the protection of beneficial uses and the maintenance of
the quality of the land.
In accordance with the functions mentioned above, the Commission can indirectly help to prevent or
minimize pollution by restricting location of potential and actual pollution6 sources. The major issue is
the sectoralisation of the Government's operations while neglecting holistic view of each activity on
land and their impacts on others. There is a tendency of each sector making decisions without
consulting the others. For example, Wildlife Division c an designate an a rea for game conservation
without consulting the Agriculture and Food Security Divisions to avoid grabbing land for agricuilture
activities.
The Mangalali scheme is included in the National Irrigation Development Plan which has been
officially adopted by the Government.
4.2.10 The Land Acquisitions Act of 1967
The Land Acquisition Act gives p owers to the President to take "land" from private occupants for
public purposes when the public's interests to do so. The new Land laws declare all land in Tanzania
as "Public Land" and vested to the President as trustee of all citizens. However, the Land Acquisition
law has been watered down by the New Land Laws, which restrict the President's powers not to
acquire land without negotiation with the owners. Again the new laws stipulate detailed
compensations to be paid on any acquired land that amounts to deterring the President to do so without
careful considerations.
4.2.11 By-Laws
All villages in Tanzania are allowed to form by-laws. This has been done in Mangalali village whose
by-laws address proper use of land and water to ensure public health.
4.3     NATIONAL STRATEGIES
In order to guide national development more effectively and systematically, Tanzania has prepared a
number of strategies aiming at operationalizing the various policies in key sectors. Some of the
strategies that have a bearing on irrigation development and discussed below include: the Government
Vision 2025, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Rural Sector Development Strategy and the
Agricultural Sector Development Strategy.
4.3.1   Government Development Vision 2025
The Government Development Policy 2025 is guiding framework for national development to the year
2025. It aims at achieving a high quality livelihood for the people, characterized by su stainable and
equitable growth. It also aims at attaining good governance through the rule of law and at developing a
strong and competitive economy by moving from a less developed country (LDC) to a middle-income
country by 2025.
Scheme irrigation committees and water users' associations are p otential n uclei for promoting g ood
governance and democratic practices in rural villages. By adhering to common practices and cropping
patterns, farmers will realize more or less equal and higher incomes.
4.3.2   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of 2000
The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) concentrates on efforts aimed reducing income poverty;
improving human capabilities, survival and social well-being. The PRSP has set medium term goals to
be a chieved b y t he year 2 010 through s ustaining macroeconomic st ability, rural s ector development
and export, and private sector development.
24



Improvement of food supply and security is key to infant and maternity healthi as well as to income
generation. A number of activities, including construction and consultancy services have been
performed by the private sector This has contributed to local capacity buliding.
4.3.3   Rural Sector Development Strategy (RDS) of 2000
The Strategy aims at reducing rural poverty as means of managing resources sustainably, since
widespread poverty i n rural areas compels people, in search for survival, t o o ver-exploit the n atural
resources. The RDS envisages the following:
*   Revising legislation and regulations with a view to enhancing community participation in
managemenit and utilization of natural resources.
*   Revising the licensing procedures related to utilizationl of natural resources.
*   Introducing procedures for cost and benefit sharing of natLiral resources.
*   Introducing EIA as a pre-requisite for all development projects.
*   Developing procedures for natural resources with regard to entitlement of the state, communities
and individuals.
*   Developing procedures for conflict resolution in matters of natural resources utilization.
The Mangalaii scheme will contribute to the principle objective of the RDS of poverty reductioll
throLigi raising incomes and better resource utilization. The work of the water users' association
involves a number of elements targeted by the Strategy.
4.3.4   Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) of 2001
The ASDS, which was formulated through a broad based consultative process, aims at transfornming the
agricultural sector into a modernized, commercial, highly productive and profitable sector that sh all
utilize natural resources i n a sustainable manner a nd shall a ct a s a n e ffective basis for i ntersectoral
linkages.
The ASDS will address the key weaknesses facing the agricultLiral sector, which include low
productivity, poor coordination and limited capacity, underdeveloped supporting facilities, erosion of
the natural resource base, inappropriate technology, dependency on rainfed agriculture, impediments to
food market access as well as low public and private expenditure levels.
The investments and other interventions made in improving the irrigation system at Mangalali are
highly relevant and well in line with the targets of the ASDS. These improvements will contribute to
higher productivity, income generation, better water and land utilization, all of which are targets of the
Strategy.
4.3.4   Agricultural Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) of 2001
The ASDS, which was formulated through a broad based consultative process, aims at transforming the
agricultural sector into a m odernized, commercial, highly productive and p rofitable s ector that sh all
utilize natural resources i n a sustainable manner a nd shall a ct a s a n e ffective basis for i ntersectoral
linkages.
The ASDS will address the key weaknesses facing the agricultural sector, which incILide low
productivity, poor coordination and limited capacity, underdeveloped supporting facilities, erosion of
the natural resource base, inappropriate technology, dependency on rainfed agriculture, impediments to
food market access as well as low public and private expenditure levels.
The investments and other interventions made in improving the irrigation system at Mangalali are
highly relevant and well in line with the targets of the ASDS. These improvements will contribLite to
higher productivity, income generation, better water and land utilization, all of which are targets of the
Strategy.
25



4.4      COMPLIANCE WITH WORLD BANK SAFEGUARD POLICIES
A list of World Bank environmental and social safeguard policies is listed in Appendix 2. This part of
the report contains an analysis of the compliance of the Mangalali scheme with the Bank Safeguard
policies. It is based on intensive field observatioii bythe study team, coupled with discussionis held
with the farmers and other local people, including village and district officials as well as project staff
The report is also based on the review of various existing documents.
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)
In order to ascertain that project proposals submitted for funding are environmentally sound and
sustainable, the World Bank requires that Environmental Assessment (EA) of the proposals be carried
out. An Environmental Assessment (EA) of Mangalali Scheme was carried out as part of the overall
base line study of the scheme. The assessment also built on the work done earlier by the Environmenital
Cell Unit (ECU) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security.
In view of the present day nature of activities at the scheme, it was found that the scheme can not bring
about adverse environmental impacts and that depending on proper handling o f several factors; e.g.
land tenure issues, its sustainability may also be ensured.
The findings of the study were discussed with farners as well as local community leaders at meetings
held at the scheme and also with district officials at their district headquarters. Their opinions and ideas
were taken into account in finalising the Environmental and Social Management and Monitoring Plan
From the above-mentioned observation the Mangalali Irrigation Scheme is considered to be in
compliance with the Bank Environmental Assessment.
Natural Habitat (OP/BP 4.04)
Mangalali irrigation scheme is relatively a newly established scheme. It has, however, only recently
been rehabilitated and improved. There are no neighbouring natural habitats which require protection
and conservation. The scheme does not therefore trigger the Natural Habitat safeguard policy of the
World Bank.
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Use of pesticides at the Mangalali scheme is currently at low level. The farmers, through the extension
service, are encouraged to apply IPM approaches. Farmers are also trained on safe use, storage and
disposal of chemicals. These efforts will lead to greater compliance with the Integrated Pest
Management policy of the World Bank, thaii present day situation.
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
As mentioned above, Mangalahi is a relatively new scheme, which has, also only recently been
rehabilitated. At the scheme area, however, no resettlements have had to be carried out. The scheme
does not, therefore, trigger the Involuntary Resettlement safeguard policy of the World Bank.
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
There has been growth of human settlements in the area since the mid-1980s. The growth involved,
however, mainly the local indigenous people themselves. They are presently permanently settled in the
area, and in response to the questionnaire, no household indicated plans to move away. In view of the
above, it is evident that project activities at Mangalali would not trigger the indigenous policy of the
World Bank.
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
Neither the up-stream nor the down-stream areas of the scheme have forested areas which may be
adversely impacted by project activities of the scheme For this reason, project activities at the scheme
may not trigger the World Bank's safe guard policy oil Forests.
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
There are presently no dams, and moreover none are tinder consideration at Mangalali irrigation
scheme. The scheme does not therefore trigger this safe guard policy of the World Bank.
26



Cultural Property (OPN 11.03 - draft OP 4.1 1)
The scheme does not have movable or immovable objects, sites, natural features and landscapes that have
archaeological, palaentological, historical, architectural, religious, aesthetic, or cultural significance. Therefore, the
scheme does not trigger this safeguard policy.
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)
The scheme is using the Little Ruaha River, whichi does not flow, to any other states. The schemile does not
therefore trigger this safeguard policy.
Project in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)
The schemne does not operate in disputed areas and it does not therefore trigger this safeguard policy.
Consultation and Disclosure Requirements (BP 17.50)
The findings of study and recommendations have been discussed with farmers' representatives at the
scheme. They endorsed the findings and recommendations. The Environmental Audit report will be
submitted to the relevant government authorities for review and approval prior to the disclosure
through newspapers, district offices, MAFS, and government websites.
27



5.0 TOOLS AND TECHNIQUES USED IN ASSESSING AND
ANALYZING ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
5.1     INTRODUCTION
There are several tools and techniques for predication environmental and social impacts as follows:
*   Checklists
*   Ilteraction matrixes
*   Network
*   Geographical Information System
*   Mathematical modelling
In undertaking the assignment, the following tools and techniques were applied for assessing and
analyzing of environmental and social impacts of the irrigation scheme in the process of the EA study:
Cbecklist
The environim1iental checklist is used for physical obscrvations in the assessment of the irrigation
scheme.
Geographical information system (GIS)
GIS has been used in analysing hydrological changes and trends in water quality and soil study of the
irrigation scheme.
5.2     IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Impact assessment is a complex activity and is mainly based and depends on range and type of baseline
date. Depending on available baseline data mainly techniques can be applied to study this for example
the following:
*   Mathematical models (such as groundwater and river models, noise propagation models, air and
water dispersion models, income multipliers)
*   Physical models (such as hydrological models for trend analysis, wind tunnels and hydraulic
models for estuaries)
*   Scientific experience, judgmenit and observations
*   Structured/semi-structured approaches (e.g. changes in landscape and social impacts)
Most EA use a mixture of these techniques - many appear to rely heavily on the latter two. Impacts
analysis and assessment must also provide information on the following aspects:
*   Duration (time period over which they will occur)
*   Likelihood or probability of occurrence (very likely or unlikely, etc.'
•   Reversibility (natural recovery or aided by human intervention)
*   Area affected (size and whether near or far from the project)
*   Number (and characteristics) of people likely to be affected and their locations
*   Trans-bourndary aspects - do impacts cross-national borders?
Due to lack of baseline data and time constraints the consultant was not able to conduct impact
assessment based on mathematical and physical models for the environment audit. For environmental
and social impacts structured/senmi-structured approaches, focused group discussions, scientific
experience, observations aiid judgment and GIS were used to quantify and evaluate impacts.
28



6.0 CONSULTATIONS WITH COMMUNITY AND FARMERS
6.1     INTRODUCTION
Meetings
Briefing meetings were held with Village Government Leaders, the Farmer Group Leader and the
Village Agricultural Extension officer prior to the holding of the focus group discussions.
Focus group discussions
Focus group discussions were conducted with village governments, farmer groups, and women groups.
Data and information on1 issues like water and land use conflicts were gathered.
Participants
During the meetings and focus group discussions, the study team witnessed active participation of both
men and women. The size of the focus groups ranged from   13 to 16. Guided by skilled and
experienced facilitators, participants deliberated on a variety of issues regarding agricultural production
and environmental conservation. The participants contributed freely to the discussions and had diverse
opinions on many issues. The group size and the skills of the facilitator helped to make the meetings
successful .
6.2     MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES IDENTIFIED BY
STAKEHOLDERS
In addition to the assessment of the level of environmental awareness amongst community members,
group discussions were also used to get information on what are considered to be the major
environmental problems in the village of Mangalali. The following were given as major environmental
concerns:
*   Canals worn out
*   Bad routes to canals
*   No bridges over canals
*   Gates worn out
*   Much siltation
*   High salinity
*   Cattle wandering
*   Hippos, monkeys traverse fields
*   Inadequate irrigated land
*   Fertilizer unaffordable
*   Diseases attack crops
*   Water Distribution Plan
*   Inadequate domestic water supply
*   Malaria, TB, Typhoid
*   Schistomiasis, HIV
*   Storage facilities
*   Insecticides unaffordable
*   Poor market for produce
*   Lack of certified seeds
Participatory environmental action plan developed by farmers during focus group discussions is
presented in Appendix 3.
29



7.0 IDENTIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
7.1      INTRODUCTION
Key environmental and social issues/impacts identified for the Mangalali irrigation schemiie were based
on the following sources: field observations, IEE reports of 1998, and focus group discussions. Table
7.1 presents a summnary of the issues that are considered pertinenit and significant now and in the future.
Table 7.1: Summary of key environmental and social impacts
INDENTIFIED ISSUES BASED ON FIELD         IDENTIFIED         IDENTIFIED      IDENTIFIED
OBSERVATIONS                    PROBLEMS           ISStUES        QUANTIFIABLE/
Upstream   Irrigation level  Down stream     BASED ON IEE       BASEID ON       NON-
REPORTS OF 1998    FOCUS          QUANTIFIABLE
GROUPS         IMPACTS IN
DISCUSSION     ESMP
None       . Weak         * Shortage of water  * Unplanned up-   * Inadequate   Upstieam.
tertiary       including           stream settlements  water in river  Hydiological
canals at      management       * Water pollution   * Poor levels  changes
some points    problems           due to use of river  of women    Demographic trend
* Shortage of  * Poor soil fertility  water for domestic  participation  Catchment
water        * Inadequate land     purposes         * Inadequate   Soil erosion
* Inadequacy     resource          * Inappropr-iate uses  awvareness on
of local       management          of agrochemicals   erivironment  Irt-ization level:
community      practices        * Formation of        al issues    -   Soil quality
cooperation                        mosquito breeding  .Pollution due  -  Water quality
* Land                               grounds           ti washing    -   Wildlife
hoaiding                                              atid bathing  -  Fertilizers and
* Poor soil                                            in canals         pesticides use
fertility                                          * Lack of           Waterboine
* Lack of                                               credit           diseases
credit                                                schemes      Downstream:
facilities                                                             Water quality
* Illegal land                                                       -   Waterbome
tenure                                                                 diseases
practices                                            _
This chapter presents a brief description of identified environmental and social impacts of the
Mangalali irrigation scheme. The impacts are based on changes, which have or are expected to occur,
prior or post improvement of the scheme. Attempts have been made to indicate both positive as well as
negative i mpacts, but for t he s ake of preparing a n e ffective E nvironmental a nd Social M anagement
Plan (ESMP), negative impacts have featured more than positive impacts. The impacts may also be
categorized (based on localities) as follows:
*   Upstream and downstream impacts
*   Sclheme level impacts
7.2 UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM IMPACTS
7.2.1    Demographic trend (population changes)
Population in the study area is as presented in Table 7.2 below.
The Mangalali village has a total population of 4141 people. It has four hamlets and 533 households.
Table 7.2 depicts the households' distributioti in four hamlets that comprise Mangalali village.
30



Table 7.2: Households in Mangalali hamlets.
Hamlets                                      Households
1. Mangalali  A                              80
B                               118
2. Lukwambe   A                              78
B                               56
3. Kitowo     A                              94
B                               107
4. Kikongoma (Kambi ya Giriki)                23
Source: Mangalali Village government August 2003
Kitowo hamlet surrounds Mangalali irrigation scheme and is the hamlet where many people are
engaged in irrigation farming. They have their own unit, popularly known as Uinoja, which lawfully
owns the irrigated land and has water right. However, individuals with his/her own piece of land is
allowed to lend it.
Table 7.3: Population distribution in Mangalali 2003
Adult           |        Children         _    Total
Male          Female       Male         Female       4141
1219          1574         637          711
Source: Iringa District council, august 2003
Table 7.4: Population trend: 1993-2003
Year             Male               Female
1993             681                748
1994             710                792
1995             739                857
1996             783                815
1997             817                914
1998             839                950
1999             903                1033
2000             1002               1101
2001             1107               1257
2002             1215               1444
Source: Mangalali Village government office, August 2003
Upstream (Mkoga Village)
The village is in Kalenga Ward situated at the foot of Mount Utinde, which is about 4 km from the
Little Ruaha River. It has a total population of 1229 people. The main environmental issue is
deforestation which is taking place on this mountain. The situation is such that no trees are available for
wood fuel.
Table 7.5: Population distribution in Mkogwa village
Village      Adult                       Children                     Total
Male        | Female       Male              Female
Mkoga        360           392           235              242          1229
Kipera Village (Down stream)
Kipera Village is situated in Nzihi Ward, in Kalenga Division, 8.5 km from the Iringa-Ruaha National
Park road. The village has a total population of 1614 inhabitants and 254 households. Table 7.6 depicts
the population distribution based on gender and age.
31



Table 7.6: Population distribution (age and sex)
Adult                               Children                            Total
male              female            male              female            1614
738               876               435               463
Source: Kipera Village government office, august, 2003.
7.2.2  Hydrological changes
Variability analysis has shown that there has been a drastic flow shift since 1962. Segmentation
analysis results (Figure 7.1 and Table 7.2) indicate that the time between 1956 and 1961 had a mean
annual flow of 189.2 cumecs and since 1962 the mean annual flow has drastically decreased to 28.51
cumecs. This drastic shift in the mean annual flow appears because a huge amount of water is diverted
for commercial purposes upstream of the gauging station. This phenomenon should be verified by field
study. Separate analysis undertaken for the second period from 1962 onwards in both annual and
monthly flows of this period does not show statistically significant variation However, it was noted
that relatively higher values of rank correlation coefficients reveal slowly emerging declining trends in
September, October and November.
Figure 7.1: Plot of annual flow series and 3 year moving average trend line
300
Little Ruha            Annual
250 -                                       MAF(1958-61)
1MAF(1962-93)
100
0 
years
As seen from Figure 7.1, an additional phenomenon has also been noted in the series from 1962
onwards. The period from 1962 to 1978 has been a relatively dry period compared to the time from
1978 to 1993. The systematic increase and decrease of flow in the river before and after 1962 confirms
the existence of regulation upstream of the gauging station, which in the Study Team's view follows
water extractions upstream according to differing periodic needs.
32



Figure 7.2: Annual Percent deviation from Mean Annual Flow (MAF)
LHtle Ruha
500 -
300-
~200 -     i
~100
1   0.
-100         -   -     ~     -       r   ~    i     
Years
As most of the rainfill records available for the scheme area end at 1972, no variability analysis was
done. There is also uncontrolled upstream water extraction occurring. Most upstream water users have
no water rights and there is no monitoring.
7.2.3   Catchment degradation
Preparation of charcoal for commercial purpose and bush burning are the fundamental causes of
deforestation, particularly at Utinde Mountain (upstream). Consequently, sources of firewood for
domestic uses are quite distant from the villages. Physical observation revealed that the distance to the
nearest source of fuel wood goes beyond 6 to 10 n.
33



Map 7.1: Mangalali catchments area land use/vegetation maps
Maps allwing L.n d UL.. OVagIat a covMr
within Meagolal (Igation sdll.n.) Cmllhw.I
-__ _ _w -                                               h
t~~ - "  ~ - - - - ~~ - - -'-3  /  =    S         M5
A opgaphical.h Map of18r oviiahnae    fth   rsn day Mangaaaa   shemeidctsta
howe..,. t ehatin the , s areas t  c     on.. wasifngac
fan Sa                -               Ca: -ur -la.a Mwron -, -Sd - .
A satellbe imageof 1998 ndiae haCoo o  eeeastino hmaC.4,i Haspecies bas, tak- en pae.)Fo
exml,i  Swbot  ptenaddwsa           m  Croadeaed et dnaeiedd..wus) trees havea srngu id y
side wit herbaceus crops and shrbs. Witbn schemeareas, sawS. lholeade herblaacesgaouwsa acros  dommate
Farthr uph-eamof te schme, reas overd by roadeave deciduous(trees are on.the w,O,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05 ir,aow orwa .wa       - 
Fartoprographrcalma of 1982 scovering theareisanes of thareasen dayreb Maglaoiscemeug indiacaeosta
texape, (in bomaeth upstreameand mdoistem aiedhreaseurp,lwtes broadleaved deciduous teshv pn psd-y
trees, and herbaceous trees and shrubs.
In view of the above, therefore, it is evident that environmental conditions are becoming inceasingly
favourable for irigTion agriculture activities at Mangalahi. In addition, it appears that current simgation
activities are not advr-sely affecting the environmental conditions.
It should be noted, however, that downstream deforstation is occurring due to charcoal making for
commercial purposes. Lack of cattle routes to the Little Ruaha River is causing soil erosion and land
use conflict between famers and agro-pastorahists. This issue will have to address if the current
positive trends are to continue.
7.2-4 Soil erosion
Soil erosion is another environtmental issue identified in the field. Heavy rains are causing the creation
of gullies at various locations within the scheme.
7.2.5 Water quality on downstream users
34



Table 7.7 shows water quality upstream and downstream of the scheme. The pH ranged between 7.32
and 8.13, which is a near neutral pH band. The Dissolved Oxygen (DO) ranged from 6.48 mg/l to 7.43
mg/I, indicating good aeration and might be fairly low organic pollution in the water. The salinity and
total dissolved solids (TDS) values of the incoming water (measured froTn the intakes) indicate that the
water used for irrigation is fresh and very suitable for that matter. The salinity is zero and TDS ranges
between 40.2 mg/l to 41.3 mg/I. This is very good fresh water with little dissolved substance. This fact
is further supported with low values oft otal hardness (38-67 mg/l as CaCO3). The turbidity ranges
from 17 NTU to 20 NTU. The colour of the water is appreciably elevated (83-97 Hazens°).
Table 7.7: Water Quality Analysis
S/N       PARAMETER                 UNIT                Intake               TC5
(Upstream)         (Downstream)
I.   pH                              pH                 7.62                 7.32
2.    Temperature                  Celsius               19.3                22.3
3.    Electricity conductivity      u S/cm               81.1                80.6
4.    Salinity                                           0.0                  0.0
5.    Turbidity                     NTU                   17                  20
6.    Colour                       Hazen'                67                   97
7.    Dissolved oxygen              mg/I                 7.07                6.59
8.    Total Dissolved Solid         mg/I                40.08                40.3
9.    Nitrate-Nitrogen               mg/l                0.36                0.86
10.  Nitrite-Nitrogen               mg/l                0.029               0.033
11.  Ammonia-Nitrogen               mg/I                0.31                 0.34
12.  Phosplhate                     mg/I                0.17                 0.10
13.  Sulphate                       mg/I                 19.3                21.0
14.  Total Alkalinity               mg/i                 41                   33
15.  Total Hardness as CaCO3        mg/l                 56                   47
16.  Calcium (Ca)                   mg/I                 36                   27
17.  Acidity as CaCO3               mg/I                 12                   12
18.  Chloride                       mg/l                 21                   19
19.  Faecal coliform             Count/lOOml             612                 280
20.   Chemical Oxygen               mg/l                 362                  95
Demanld
COORDINATES            0784871E             0784835E
9142361N            9145389N
ELEVATION               1450                 1444
35



7.3 IRRIGATION SCHEME LEVEL MIPACTS
7.3.1   Soil quality
Four representative soil samples were collected from Mangalali Irrigation Scheme for examination of
physical and chemical properties of the soil. The analysis also checked for the presence of salinity and
trends.
Map 7.2: Map of analysed soil sample locations
I Xlwwil.S SoN Iwples' (c;lons
* 5.1.Hmiu'la~ I.,is
AX R o04
Table 7.8: Soil Sites and Results
SIN     pH    EC          SOLUBLE SALTS         P      C     N     C/N     Particle size %  Texture
mSkc                              Mgfk    %     %
Ca      Mg    K      Na                               san   silt  cia
ffiJ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~d                          j 
MA X    7.1  .04    S. o    5.4   .5      .19   1.64    1.4  .12   12     68     10   33    S c
MA2     7.0  .03    7. 9    3.2   .36     .58   .60    .88   .10   9       69    15   21    s I
MA 3    7.2  .02     . 4    0.4   .34     .16   .24    .53   .04   13      74   9    110    SX
MA4     7.0  .01     1 5.2  2.9   .60     .25   .27    .10   .10   10      85   9     2     SC
The soil pH is neutral to slightly acidic for farms located downstream. Fertility ranges from vry low to
low in the whole farm. Although there is good mineralization, availability of phosphorus is medium to
low for upstream farms as well as middle farms. Cation exchange capacity is medium to low at upstream
farms and middle farms, while the downstream areas have high cation exchange capacity. Exchangeable
sodium percentage shows that the upstream fanns are non sodic, while the middle farms are moderately
sodic and the lower farms are slightly sodic. There are indicators of sodium accumulation at the farms
located downstream.
36



Soil sodicity was detected in the top soil at site number 3 in the middle farm area of the scheine, while
the rest is nonl sodic. Soil fertility is considered to be low at Mangalali irrigation scheme
Soil erosion
Soil erosion was observed in some parts of the riverbank of the Little Rualia River and along sides of
the irrigation canal. Little damage is caused by livestock as there are water pools constructed along the
main canal for cattle. Erosion of riverbanks is a threat to the existence/sustainability of the scheme.
7.3.2   Water quality
The village depends mainly on the Little Ruaha River as its main source of water for domestic
consumption. This i s a problem a s i t i s note s afe a nd c lean. At the scheme I evel, t he water i s a lso
relatively organically polluted with chemical oxygen demand (COD) showing elevated levels (95-362
mg/I), though these are considered normal values for irrigation schemes. Faecal contamination levels
range from 280 to 612 FC/100 ml, values indicating possible increased human/animal waste pollution.
Water quality may be affected by activities going on in the scheme area including washing and bathing
in the irrigation canals.
7.3.3   Wildlife
Increased destructive activities of wildlife have been observed within the scheme area. No assessment
has been done to quantify the damages on crops and people.
7.3.4   Fertilizers and pesticides use and dangers
Farmers in Mangalali use chemical fertilisers and agrochemicals to maintain agriculture production at
a high l evel. Special attention should be m aintained to the fact t hat t oxic chemicals bring a r isk to
hum.1an health as well as the natural ecosystem, especially for aquatic species.
There is high risk of pests and diseases attacking crops in Mangalali. Proper measures should be taken,
like the use of agrochemicals and biological control measures, to combat diseases and pests. Proper
weeding to remove extra plants, which could harbor pests and insects, should be promoted too. In the
case of wild animals, initiative efforts to contact game officers should made
37



Table 7.9: Crop pest, diseases and vennin
Crop         Pests         Diseases     Vermin       Pest control        Disease      Remark
control
Maize        -Maize stalk  -Maize stalk  -Rats      -Crop rotation
borer        virus        -Hippo        -Neem
-Thiodan
-Actelic super
-Ash
-Local pesticides
(udupa)
Tomato       -Aphids      -Rust         -Hippo                           -Bravo
-American    -Blight       -Patridge                       -red copper
bollworm     -Bacterial   -Rats                            -blue copper
-Nematodes                                                  -Beyrton
-crop
rotation
Beans        -Nematodes   -bean rust                                    -Beyrton
-Bean fly    -anthracnose
-Aphids
-Red beetle
Paprika                   -mildew      -rats        -do-                 byfidam
Source: Discussion with Mangalali Agricultural Officer, August 2003.
38



Table 7.10: Application of fertilizers
Chemical      Type used      Amount/acr       Community level          Individual level  __Danger
Fertilizei    NPK            2 bags of 50kg  NPK/TSP=720bags          NPKITSP/CAN
TSP                            CAN=2800bags             =10bags
CAN                                                                         ____
Pesticides    Thiodan        5kg             25kg
Actellic -E.C
Fungicides
2 litres         10 litres
Source: Discussion with Ward Agricultural Officer, 2003
7.3.5   Waterborne diseases
Generally, health situation is at a relativelymoderate level. The area isserved bytwo dispensaries.
Diseases affecting Mangalali villagers most include: malaria, ARI, pneumoniia, diarrhea, etc. The trend
(2001-2003) of diseases for Mangalali area is presented in tables below. From the tables, malaria is the
leading d isease. Its p revalence is perhaps due to a conducive environment for m osquito breeding in
Mangalali.
Table 7.11: Disease prevalence in Mangalali (Kalenga dispensary)
Year            Diseases        Male            Female         Total
2001            Malaria         38              18             56
Pneumonia       12              9              21
Diarrhea        I               1              2
ARI             8               2               10
Minor surgery   8               0               8
2002            Malaria         21              45             66
Pneumonia       11              10             21
Diarrhea        3               3               6
ARI             1               14              15
Minor surgery   3               6               9
2003            Malaria         21              45             66
Pneumonia       3               10              13
Diarrhea        3               4               7
ARI             l               10             11
Minior surgery  3               5               8
Source: Kalenga Dispensary, August 2003
Table 7.12: Disease prevalence in Mangalali (Kipera mission dispensary)
Diseases           Male               Female             Total
Malaria            146                106                252
ARI                93                 100                193
STDs               47                 117                164
Diarrhea           58                 62                 120
Dysentery          20                 16                 36
Source: Kipera mission dispensary
7.3.6   Drinking water quality and sanitation
The main sanitation system is the use of pit latrines, which are constructed locally. In general, the
survey shows, sanitation facility use is of concern in that more than 40% of those surveyed indicate that
there are some customs and traditions that influence non use of toilet facilities in their community.
There are no proper areas for solid waste disposal.
39



Downstream, piped water is available three times a week, so the Nzihi River and the Little Rualia River
serve as alternative water sources for domestic uses. This water is not potable, so impacts on human
health are a concern. A source of water in the village is shown below.
Table 7.13: Sources of water in Mangalali village
TYPes of water sources     Number      Remarks
Piped water                12          Main source
Local shallow wells        18          Used in case of water shortage from the tapes
River                      I           Not commonly used
Source: Village government office August 2003
7.3.7   Socio-economic: positive and negative impacts of villages within the scheme
Negative Impacts
*   There is a high rate of deforestation in Mangalali village due to charcoal making. This habit is
increasing soil erosion and siltation of canals.
*   There is an increase in the use of agrochemicals such as Thiodan and inorganic fertilizers such as
NPK, UREA, CAN and DAP. These chemicals enter water streams and are a health hazard.
*   There are a high number of water-related diseases occLirring in the area.
*   Interaction of different people from different areas is accelerating the spread of HIV/AIDS.
Positive Impacts
*   Storm water drainage system has been improved along the main irrigation canal.
*   Crop yield has increased supplying enough for domestic Lise and a surplus for selling. The rice
production has increased from 10 bags to 22 bags after implementation of the irrigation scheme.
*   Ther-e are two cropping seasons in a year.
*   More people have engaged in farming activities following the estabilishmelit of the irrigation
scheme.
*   Farmers' standard of living has improved in terms of housing, education, clothing and nutrition.
*   Village organization has improved by the formation of associations like SACCOS and Umoja wa
umwagiliaji, and WUA
* The area under cultivation has increased.
40



8.      IDENTIFIED MITIGATION MEASURES
8.1 INTRODUCTION
This section presents a brief description of the identified impacts and subsequent mitigation measures.
The description addresses itself to three categories of identified impacts as presented in previous
chapter, as well as four categories of identified mitigation measures. The categories of identified
impacts include the following:
*   Impacts in up-stream areas of scheme
*   Impacts at scheme areas
*   Impacts in down areas of schemes
Furthermore, the categories of identified mitigation measures include the following:
*   Environmental management
*   Enhancement of social - economic activities
*   Improving health situation
*   Revisiting engineering designs and /or construction.
8.2 UPSTREAM AND DOWN STREAM
8.2.1   Environmental Management
In general environmental management involves adoption of integrated approaches in natural resouIces
management. The mitigation measures, among others, include:
*   Promotioni of up-stream soil and water conservation and environmental protection in general.
*   Promotion of up-stream afforestation/reforestation activities as well as environmental protection in
general.
*   Strengthening mechanisms for monitoring/surveillance and enforcement of regulations for
abstraction of water resources.
*   Strengthening and/or establishment of mechanisms for resolution of conflicts
In down stream  areas, among others, the key mitigation measures related to environmental
management include: water management, as well as embarking on e ducational programs seeking to
improve irrigation practice, appropriate uses of agro-chemicals etc.
8.2.2   Enhancement of social economic activities
In the case of Mangalali scheme the key issue among local communities is strong awareness on high
potentiality of irrigation agriculture as a viable socio-economic activity in an ecologically fragile area.
Under these circumstances, t herefore, at up-stream and down-stream, the mitigation m easures under
category of enhancing socio-economic conditions include the following:
*   Promotion of ox-wagons to facilitate more efficient transportation of products to Iringa.
*   Promoting better skills/knowledge on appropriate irrigation practice e.g. training on efficient uses
of water resource, operation and maintenance of irrigation scheme elc.
41



8.3     IRRIGATION LEVEL
8.3.1   Environmental management
The mitigation measures under category of environmental management include:
*   Training of farmers and village extension officers on good agronomic practices.
*   Training of farmers in operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.
*   Conduct environmental awareness campaigns and education to all water users.
*   Embarking on education, public awareness on integrated approaches for irrigation agriculture e.g.
integrated pesticides management, integrated soil fertility management, proper use of agro-
chemicals etc.
*   Controlling destructive activities of wildlife e.g. hippos.
8.3.2   Community based control of wildlife
Scarring
Farmers construct different forms of structures to scare wildlife. They can construct effigies to scare
wild animals and they also construct flag like forms and tins packed with small-sized stones that make
noise when      blown by wind. Shouts and other forms of noises accompany scares when there are
attendants in  the      field.
Task forces
When there is serious crop damages from  animals like bush pigs and hippos farmers organise
themselves into task forces to flush and chase the animals out of their habitats close to the farms. They
mobilise dogs to flush and chase the animals out of the areas threatened by raids. Farmers denied
killing animals during these drives but it is possible somc animals killed for the pot. Wheni primates are
killed they displayed, by hanging, in order to scare other primates.
Benefits from Wildlife
Wildlife policy seeks to establish involvement of village in management of wildlife. This in effect
means that villagers have to see benefits in the activity. The villages should receive training for game
scouts who will be trained in wildlife management and proved security against dangerous wildlife and
secLirity on the peripheries of Ruaha National Park.
8.3.3   Revisiting engineering designs and/or construction stages
In this scheme several members of the local community have realized significant important and
viability of i rrigation a griculture a s a socio-economic a ctivity. The wish t o own farming areas has
therefore increased several fold. In fact it was observed during the field visit that for most farmiers
farm sizes are too small to enable them earn profitably. However extension of farm lands has to be
related w ith among others design capacity (especially water availability). It is therefore proposed to
examine viability of extending scheme area in the face of growing demands for more land to be put
under irrigation. There is need to arrest down-stream on going erosion of the riverbank. It is therefore
proposed to carry out remedial measures to arrest on going erosion of riverbank in down-stream areas.
8.3.4   Improving health situation
This category of measure should be relevant for identified impacts at both scheme levels, as well as in
down-stream areas of the scheme.
One of the known environmental impacts of irrigation activities is spread of water borne diseases, e.g.
bilharzias, dysentery, malaria, and etc. Furthermore, expected influx of people, as irrigation agriculture
increases will mean that promiscuity will also arise. This calls for the need to embark on a program for
prevention of HIV/AIDS, as well as strengthening existing health and water supply services, as
appropriate.
To reduce vulnerability of the Mangalali scheme, it is recommended that the sensitisation awareness
creation of the local community on health hazards should be carried out.
Moreover mitigation measure should be taken to minimize pollution of water sources
42



8.3.5   Construction of cattle troughs
To alleviate the tendency of livestock drinking in the main canal, a drinking point for livestock has
been provided along main canal to avoid concentration of livestock in one drinking point. The project
should assist in construction of a trough or two for downstream livestock keepers. Livestock from these
areas obtain water from irrigation canals, which is a dangerous habit since it leads to d estruction of
canals.
8.3.6   Monitoring of water quality
In order to safe guard health of downstream u sers, irrigation water q uality should be monitored for
contamination. Appropriate measures should be taken to address any deviations from internationally
accepted standards.
43



9. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
(ESMP)
9.1     INTRODUCTION
The mitigation measures proposed in the previous chapter represent the core findings of the EA and are
importanit elements in implementing the curreilt improvement of the irrigation scheme and mitigating
potentially adverse social and environmental impacts. The Environmental and Social Managemenit Plan
(ESMP) in the following sections presents:
*   Identification and summary of major anticipated adverse environmental impacts
*   Description of mitigation measures
*   Description of elements of monitoring program
*   Institutional arrangement
*   Implementation schedule for mitigation measures
*   Performance monitoring and reporting procedures
*   Cost estimates and sources of funds
The ESMP is based on the guidelines defined in the World Bank Operational Manual OP/BP 4.01.
9.2     OBJECTIVES
General objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for the Mangalall
irTigation scheme would be to promote sustainable and efficient irrigation agricultural activities in the
area.
Specifically, the objectives of the Environmental and Social Management Plan for the Mangalali
irrigation scheme are therefore mainly two-fold; namely:
(i)   To promote sustainability of the schemes through:
*   Improving capacities, knowledge/skills,
*   Establishing /strengthening mechanisms for resolution of conflicts pertaining to uses of
natural resources especially water and land resources,
*   Establishing /strengthening mechanisms for enforcement of regulations for water
abstractions and pollution control
*   Strengthening local community leadership and effective mechanism  for control in
acquisition and uses of land resources.
(ii)  To promote efficiency in irrigation agricultural activities, through
*   Providing/educating on appropriate irrigation practices, e.g. on proper uses of agro-
chemicals, IPM approaches,
*   Strengthening implementation of water management concept.
*   Revisiting designing and construction stages of the scheme to assess the need for review
of the stages.
44



9.3 SUMMARY OF MAJOR ENIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
IDENTIFIED MITIGATION MEASURES
A summary of major environmental impacts and identified impacts are depicted in the table below:
Table 9.1: Environmental and social impacts mitigation measures
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS                   MITIGATION MEASURES
Up-stream impacts:                                 Category :Environmental Management:
- Demographic trend (population changes)           * Watershed management
- Hydrological changes                             . Embarking on soil and water
- Catchment degradation                               conservation and environmental
- Soil erosion                                        protection program in up-stream areas
* Embarking on afforestation and or
reforestation program
* Strengtheniing enforcement of
abstraction regulations
Category:   Enhancement    of   social-
economic activities:
* Promoting environmental consciousness
in all social -economic activities,
* Strengtheninig mechanisms for
controlled acquisition and of landuse-
related social-economic practices,
Downstream impacts:                                Category: Environmental Management:
- Water quality                                    * Improved water for drinking.
- Waterborne diseases
Category: Enhancement of social-
economic activities:
Category: lmproving health situation
* Promoting awareness on waterborne
diseases, as well as HIV/AIDS,
. Improving availability of health, water
and sanitationi services.
Irrigation scheme level impacts                    Category: Environmental Management
- Soil quality
- Water quality                                   *  Training of farmers and village
- Wildlife                                           extension officers on good agronomic
- Fertilizers and pesticides use                     practices.
- Waterbome disease                               *  Training of farmers in operation and
maintenanice of the irrigation system.
*   Conduct environmental awareness
campaigns and education to all water
users.
*   Improved soil fertility management
45



1 Community based control of wildlife
Category: Improving health situation
*   Promoting awareness on waterborne
diseases, as well as HIV/AIDS,
* Improving availability of health, water
and sanitation services
Category :Revisiting engineering designs
and/or construction stages
*   Reviewing designs and construction to
address arising siltation/sedimentation
problems
*   Establishing modalities for
rehabilitation of destroyed structures,
Positive impacts in general
- Iicreased households incomes and broadened socio-
economic base, or earning opportunities
- Improved water and land resources management and
hence ensuring effective environmental management
- improved productivity e.g. through education on
appropriate agricultural practices, proper uses of agro-
chemicals, provision of improved seed varieties etc.
- Improved access to water services both for agriculture
as well as for domestic uses.
Negative impacts
- Conflicts among natural r esources (especially water  *  Establishing /strengthening locally
and land resources) users                          based mechanisms for addressing
conflicts in uses of natural resources
9.4 DESCRIPTION OF ELEMENTS OF MONITORING PROGRAM
Monitoring objectives
Monitoring refers to a systematic collection of data/information and due analysis, with the aim of
following up on the subsequent phenomena in the wake of implementation of the ESMP. Activities are
followed up, their status assessed, quantified and rectified accordingly. This process should be
considered as part of the ESMP. The District Council will keep a close eye on changing conditions and
keep records, as accurately as possible, to check, among others, Dn compliance with statutory
environmental protection provisions and World Bank Safeguard Policies.
Description of performance indicators which provide linkages to impacts and mitigation
measures in the EA
Water quality
Water quality will be monitored as follows:
TThe water quality of the Little Ruaha River will be assessed contintiously to determine the overall
impact of, fertilizers, insecticides or pesticides used in the irrigation project and upstream
agricultural activities.
46



*   The water flow volume in the river will be measured through the established gauging stations.
Water balance modeling should be done for predication proposes. This exercise will help to assess
base flows, water yields, and hydrological characteristics of the catchment area.
Ground water
*   The ground water will be checked to determine salinity of ground water as a result of project
operations.
*   The chaniges in pH of ground water will be monitored to check the impacts on ground water of the
various types of crops planted.
*   Changes i n I evels of water t able will b e monitored i n s ample areas of c rops t hat c onsume t oo
mLich of ground water including the well-documented eucalyptus species.
Soil Conservation
Soil composition, texture and structure in the irrigation project area will be monitored in the sample
areas to determine impacts from various agricultural practices.
The fertility level of soils (i.e. nutrient concentration and soil moisture) in the sample crop areas will
be monitored to determine impacts from the planted crops. Changes in salinity, porosity, pH level and
types of biota in the soils will also be monitored in the sample crop areas. Alteration of these
parameters could be expected in cases where crops are grown alongside water or nutrient demanding
trees, which may consequently jeopardize the well being of the crops.
Biodiversity indicators
The following are pertinent indicators for catchment management: sedimentation rates, riverbank
erosion, flashfloods and deforestation rates. The District Natural Resource Office supported by other
stakeholder and RBM should monitor these.
Other important ecological parameters include vegetation; (i.e. both on dry land as well as on river
valleys); fish, (i.e. plankton, invertebrates); and birds, and other living organisms available in the area.
Crop Diseases
The type of diseases affecting planted trees will be monitored in the sample compartments to
determine common diseases to various crops that will require special treatment in the next rotation of
crop farming or application of appropriate pesticides for treatment of the disease.
The most damaging crop pests, especially those that have caused extensive loss of production in the
farms in Tanzania will be monitored. The monitoring of emerging pests and insects in and around the
project area will help determine the most suitable disease control mitigation measure.
Afforestation
*   Provenance and species resistance to diseases and pests for planting in the community and
individual's forest plots within the project will be screened. Provenance and nursery plots will be
established. DBH and heights will be measured.
*   The amount of carbon and other greenhouse gases in the soils will be monitored in and around the
project area. The amount of greenhouse gases will be monitored to assess the inipacts of forest
sequestration of greenhouse gases, especially carbon.
Socio-economic
The District Office should monitor the characteristics, activities and attitudes of the adjacent
communities in order to develop feasible extension programs. The major objectives will be to reduce
pressure on the irrigation area inter alia through encouraging alternative enterprises. The steps would
include:
Promoting agro-forestry in the local community farms
Infrastructure development such as accessibility, marketing, education, health, and other
proposed activities by the local community around the project area
*   Net immigration monitoring of people in the I ocal community. Population dynamics will be
monitored in sub-villages and around the project area
47



Fuel wood requirements for the local community will also be monitored to determine local
demand and develop possible strategies such as agro-forestry, community forest areas and
conservation of natural woodlands in the villages around the project area
Health indicators
The main health indicators to be monitored are water-borne diseases such as malaria and bilharzias.
Description of parameters to be measures, methods to be employed, sampling locations, frequency of
measurements, detection I imits (where appropriate) and definition of thresholds that will signed the
need for remedial actions, institutional responsibilities, timing and timescales for monitoring,
Reporting arTangements (to regLilatory authorities and the Bank), and costs and financing provisions
are presented in the table below.
48



Table 9.2: Monitoring Plan
S/N                                                                                      Presently         Priority       Dates in a year  Cost
Monitored        Sampling         Sampling      Measuring        Institution      Measured          Level                          Estimates
Location         Frequency      Units           responsible      By whom                                           US S/yr.
I    Water quality
(a)Surface       On the River     Twice          For most        Regional Water   None              High            February and    2000
Water            Little Ruaha     annually       parameters      Engineer/Rufiji                                    September
* Nutrients      intake to the                   mg/l            River Basin                                        (wet and dry
(nitrates, nitrites,  irrigation                                 office                                             season)
Ammonium,        scheme, seven
phosphates,      locations within
Bicarbonates)    the scheme and
• Salinity       down stream
* Biological
Oxygen
Demand(BOD)                                      Parts/thousand
* pH                                             mg/I
. Temperature                                    +or-7
* Suspended                                      Celsius(c)
solids                                           CLsig s(c
* Transparency                                   ug/l
Medium High
(b) Ground                        Once           Setch depth            Do             None                              Do              900
Water            Sample           annually
. Relative water  Compartments
table
. Salinity
* pH
49



2.   Soil quality      Sample
* Salinity       compartments     Once           Parts/thousand   Uyole           None              High            Do              1200
*pH (H20,KCL)    Depends on       annually
* Texture/grain  soil select 8                   + or -7
size             sampling points
* Exchangeable                                   Mmldiameter
Bases
Ca, Mg, K, Na
. Organic                                        Me/blOg
Matter
(Carbon,
Nitrogen)                                        C/N (Mg/Kg)
3    Catchment
management        Upstream        Once           Tree species     DNRO             None             Low              Feb and Sept   300
River flows      Irrigation       annually
Sedimentation    scheme                          Animal species
loads             Down stream
Riverbank                                        Species
erosion
Deforestation
rates
4    Meteorology
* Max /          Nearest Station  Daily          Celsius(C)       Regional Water   Regional Water   High             Noon           1400
Minimum                                                           Engineer         Engineer
Temperatures
* Rainfall                                       Mm
* Relative
humidity                                         %
* Wind                                           N,E,S,W
Direction                                        (Windvane)
. Wind speed                                     Meters/Second
50



5    Crop Diseases
S   Pests         Crop plots      Monthly        Lab tests        DALDO/           DALDO            High             Do             500
. Insects
* Fungi
6    Afforestation
.Provenance test  Farm plots      Once yearly    DBH- M3, Mt.     DFO              None             Medium High      Do             500
oDisease
resistance
*Carbon                                          % C/N in soils
sequestration
7    Socio-economic
Population       Mangalali and    Once           Village          Village          VEOs             Medium           June           750
changes           other sub       annually       Executive        Records
Increase income   villages                       Officers
Improved
housing
Gender balance
Fuel      wood
demand
8    Waterborne                                                                                                                               500
disease
Malaria           Upstream        Once a year    District Health  Dispensary       DHO                   High        February
Bilharzias       Irrigation                      Officer                                                               October
Others           scheme
Down streamn
51



9.5    INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY
The fundamental area for consideration is empowerment of existing administrative and organisationial
arrangements. These include farmers, local communities, both as a group as well as in their individual
capacities, in both upstream and downstream villages The empowerment has to be carried out throLigh
provision of capacity building, public awareness campaigns, tailor-made training, etc.
As a strategic approach SIIC should strengthen partnership among the Mangalali community in the use
of water and land resources. Based on the adopted organisational-structure and job descriptions of
various committees to be established, for the operation of the scheme, a framework should be
established through which the stakeholders are able to actively engage in a dialogue aimed at equitable
and sustainable use of the commoni resources.
The project should firstly embark on a programme of key and strategic activities which are part of the
above outlined Environmental and Social Management Plan and should enhance attainment of the
above objectives. More specifically, the following are proposed:
*   Hold meetings of various committees as per agreement
*   Assist: (i) to organise ward or district- based farmers' day,
And (ii) participation in local and national events like farmers day
*   Undertake joint study visits
9.6    INPUTS REQUIREMENTS AND EXPECTED OUTPUTS
Inputs
The following inputs will be required
*   Human resources to enable capacity building for farmers, district officials and other stakeholders
*   Involvement of NGOs, CBOs, local associations/societies etc to enable facilitation and capacity
building
*   Farmers labour
*   Private sector, residents, farmers' financial and material contributions.
*   Equipment/facilities
*   Transport/communications
*   Evaluation and monitoring facilities
Outputs
The following outputs are expected:
*   Enhanced capacity of district staff and stakeholders
*   Improved productivity
*   Mangalali village land use plan prepared and under implementation
*   Improved water quality for domestic purposes
*   Improved irrigation practices
•   Improved partnership between and among stakeholders
*   Effective and efficient uses of water and soil
•   Upgrading of awareness on environmental management and social development
*   Improved health and productivity of farmers and people in the scheme area and beyond
*   Improved agricultural production and enhanced irrigated land
*   Community empowered in management of natural resources and the environment
*   Enhanced socio-economic activities in Mangalali.
52



9.7 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR MITIGATION MEASURES
The Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) is presented in Table 7.3. For all impacts
the ESMP incorporates the following elements:
*   Identifled mitigation measures,
*   Institutional roles and responsibilities in relation to mitigation measures,
*   Expected targets, outputs/outcomes,
*   Proposed activity /work schedule
*   Provisionally estimated costs.
53



Table 9.3: The Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
MITIGATION MEASURES                 Responsible     Target              Outcomes         Provision Cost
Watershed managemenit              District Council  Improved           Increased water  1200
catchment area
Embarking on afforestation and or                    Establishing or    Improved         300
reforestation program               Scheme           increasing rnore   environmental
Committee        greenery            conditions
Embarking on soil and water         DALDO            Soil and water     Increased soil   500
conservation and environmental                       conservation       and water
protection program in Lup-streamii areas                                conservation
Strengthening enforcement of        District Council  Less water pollution  Less conflicts in  200
abstraction regulations                              and improved water  uses of water
uses                resources
Promoting           environmental  District Council  Improved           Increased        300
consciousness   in  all social -                     environmental      awareness on
economic activities,                                 management         environment
Establishing effective water       Water Users       Ensuring efficient  Less conflicts of  500
management system i.e. in allocation  Association   and rational uses of  water Llses
and distribution                                     water
Strengthening mechanisms for       District Council  Ensuring efficient  Less land      200
controlled acquisition and of landuse-               and rational uses of  degradation
related social-economic practices                    land resources
Training  of farmers  and  village  District Council  Improved social-  Trained farmers  800
extension officers on good agronomic                 economic           and extension
practices.                                           conditions         officers
Training of farmers in operation and  District Council  Improved water   Increased       500
maintenance of the irrigation system.                management         production
Conduct   environmenital  awareness  District Counciis  Improved        Better           900
campaigns and education to all water                 knowledge of       environmental
users.                                              environment         management
Improved soil fertility management  District Council  Improved          Increased        800
management of soil  producCtiVity
Community based control of wildlife  District Council  Increased        Less destructioll  1000
management of       of crops
wildlife
Promoting awareness on HIV/AIDS    District Council  Improved health    Improved         500
and waterborne diseases                              conditions         working ability
in community
Improving availability of social   District Council  Improved health    Improved         1300
services, e.g. on health, water supply               conditions         working ability
and sanitation                                                          in community
Reviewing designs and construction to  MAFS          Improved design     Less            1500
address arising siltation and                                           sedimentation
sedimentation problems
Establishing modalities for         District Council  Increased          Better          2000
rehabilitation of destroyed structures               maintenance and    management of
operation           structures
54



Table 9.4: Implementation plan time schedule
MITIGATION              TIME
MEASURES                SCHEDULE
2004   2005   20061  2007
123411121314112 3 41 2 3 4
Watershed management_
x_ 
Embarking on
afforestation and or
reforestation program
x 
Embarking on soil and
water conservation and
environmental protection
program in up-stream
areas
x    x,
Strengthening enforcement
of abstraction regulations
Promoting environmental
consciousness   in   all
social       -economic
activities,
Establishing effective
water management system
i.e. in allocation and
distribution
Strengthening
mechanisms          for
controlled acquisition and
of landuse- related social-
economic practices
Training of farmers and
village extension officers
on    good    agronomic
practices.
Training  of farmers in
operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system.
Conduct    environmental
awareness campaigns and
education  to  all water
users.
x
Improved   soil  fertility
management
Community based control
of wildlife
Promoting awareness on
HIV/AIDS and waterborne
diseases                            x
lImproving availability of
social services, e.g. on             _ 
55



health, water supply and
sanitation
Reviewing designs and
construction to address
arising siltation and
sedimentation problems
x
Establishing modalities for
rehabilitation of destroyed
structures                             s
56



10. CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.1    CONCLUSION
10.1.1  General conclusion
Based on review of baseline informationi, field visits to Mangalali irrigation scheme and data analyses:
it is evident that there are environmental and social issLies/impacts/problems which need to be
addressed in order to ensure sustainable and sound operation of the irrigation scheme. As outlined in
above chapters (among others): in Lip-stream  areas of the scheme, the key issues constraining
sustainability are up-stream deforestation and increased incidences of forest fires as well changes of the
river's hydrological and hydraulic regine. In within-scheme areas the constraints are general poor soil
fertility coupled with land hoarding practices In down-stream area sustainability is mainly constrained
by inadequacy of skills/knowledge of the farmers on appropriate irrigation practices. These constrains
manifest due either to upstream environmental degradation, (particularly of the catchmenit area), or
within-the-scheme impacts, (e.g. due to inappropriate irrigation practices), or also in down -stream
areas (due to uncontrolled water abstractions leading to community conflicts.
Baseline data with comprehensive benchmark parameters related to various studies like hydrogeology,
socio-economic, environment, water quality, etc. at catchment and irrigation levels were not available
in the area. Environment and social assessment impact requires "before and after" studies, and perhaps
experience from similar environments to facilitate assessment of the severity of perceived problems.
Quantification of impacts requires collection of data, understanding of process and analysis of results,
which take more time and resources.
Thiough ecosystem, farming system and participatory approaches, the key impacts were identified and,
as far, as was possible, quantified. Additionally, measures pertaining to prevention and/or control have
been proposed. An Environmental and Social Management Plan, for the Mangalali irrigation scheme
were developed.
10.1.2  Specific conclusions
Location
In conclusion, it was found that the location of the scheme enhances sustainability of the scheme. This
is because the scheme is located near rapidly growing minor townships of Mangalali and Kalenga both
of which provide much opportunities a nd have direct near I inks with Municipality of Iringa, t o t he
extent that the location facilitates /encourages more production through irrigation practices.
Bio-physical environment
The Mangalali scheme lies in semi -arid area of Tanzania, where without irrigation, agriculture is
difficult to practice. In conclusion it was therefore found that scheme improvement has been very
beneficial to the local community It is unfortunate that in this scheme, water potentiality is greater than
availability of land resources and wildlife e.g. hippos and monkeys destroy crops.
Socio-economic environment
Field observations indicated that there are opportunlities for several socio-economic activities at
Mangalali, but in such rural conditions, irrigation agriculture is the most reliable of them all. People at
Mangalali are therefore ambitious of expanding their farmlands more and more. This results into stiff
competitioni and conflicts both in acquisition and uses of both land as well as water resources.
Identified impacts
It is important that the positive aspects of development emerge, especially because these are what
motivate the people at village (farm) level and dictate the decisions they take or are willing to have
taken on their behalf
57



In view of the above, therefore irrigation activities at the scheme are relatively intenisive, and as such,
environmental a nd so cial impacts a re relatively also significant. I n brief, f ield studies identified the
following impacts:
Positive impacts
In the Mangalali irrigation scheme positive impacts are:
*   Increased incomes and production, leading to alleviation of poverty
*   Improved land and water resources management and distribution,
Negative Impacts
limpacts identified upstream of the Mangalali scheme are hydrological changes, i.e. in terms of
uncontrolled water abstraction leading to e.g. change of regime of river flow, erosion of river banks,
etc. The downstream impacts are water borne diseases. Within the irrigation scheme major impacts are
poor soil quality and waterborne diseases.
Mitigation measures
A number of mitigation measures were proposed to address the identified impacts. As far as possible,
preventive management measures are given priority e.g. environment, costs and benefits relate to local
government in combating soil and water pollution, catchment degradation, and pollution of the river
and disease control.
Compliance with the Tanzanian legislation and World Bank Safeguard Policies
The study team has demonstrated that the Mangalali irrigation scheme is in compliance with the
Tanzanian legislation and policies, and World Bank Safeguard Policies.
10.2 RECOMMENDATIONS
Role of Local Government authorities
Most of the identified mitigation measures are related with local community-based effective structural
-organization. This means therefore that most of the measures can be implemented by local
government autIlorities themselves with financial and technical assistance of fuLided projects e.g.
RBMSIIP and NGOs and CBOs.
Partnership building
It is recommended that arrangements should be made to share experience and information from other
partners in the area. The Iringa District could collaborate with these stakeholders in implementation of
environmental and social m anagement p lan, which are relevant to Mangalali i rrigation scheme and
others in Rufiji River Basin.
In order to minimize water and landuse conflicts, stakeholders of Rufiji River Basin in general should
work together as partners to improve production and sustainable development of the watershed
management and the scheme's sustainable development.
Similar projects should develop institutional arrangements geared to share responsibility (decision
making) for c atchment management p lan a nd prevention management a ctivities i n the R ufiji River
Basin. A partnership approach, however, also needs an appropriate institutional framework, which
clearly lays on the roles and responsibilities of each project, district councils and stakeholders.
Community and farmers participation could be solicited in plannig, management, financing,
construction and maintenance of catchment areas and receiving bodies.
58



Environmental and social impacts monitoring
A participatory monitor-ing system has been developed for the Mangalali irrigation scheme. There is
need to establish process-based plan and monitoring, to build capacity of scheme management team
and t o develop a d atabank on the environmental and social i mpact management p lan i ncluding t he
monitoring plan.
Capacity Building
Capacity building is vital for sustainability of the scheme. For this reason, capacity building is relevant
for all administrative levels, i.e. starting with a farmer (as an individual), a household, farmer's
committees, associations and groups, village and /or wards, up to district authorities as well as local
based public and private organizations e.g. NGOs, CBOs, etc.
Baseline Studies
It is vital for any sustainable smaliholder i-rigationi development and management in the river basin
that there i s a m inimum knowledge about water resources and q uantified ( baseline data) related t o
environmental and social issues. It is therefore, proposed that a mechanism for regular collection of
baseline data be established in the future smallholder irrigation improvement projects.
59



APPENDIX 1:                    Terms of Reference
TERMS 0 F REFERENCE F OR ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT OF G ROUP B
IRRIGATION SCHEMES
PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania has been implementing River Basin Management
and Smallholder Irrigation Improvement Project (RBMSIIP) since 1996 through IDA credit. The
project aims at (i) strengthening the government capacity to manage its water resources in an integrated
and comprehensive manner that ensure equitable, efficiency and sustainable development of the
resource and address water related environmental concerns at the National level and in the Rufiji and
Pangani basins: and (ii) Improve irrigation efficiency of selected smallholder traditional irrigation
schemes in these two basins. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security and the Ministry of Water
and Livestock Development are implementing the project.
The Smalliholder Irrigation Improvement Component of the project is focusing on the improvement of
existing traditional irrigation schemes. Under existing World Bank Environmental Policy (OD 4.01),
the River Basin Management and S mallholder Irrigation Improvement Project (RBMSIIP) has been
classified as a category "B" project r equiring a limited environmental analysis and, if necessary the
inclusion of mitigation measures in project design. This is essence means that no major environmental
impacts are expected and that only mitigation measures can be incorporated into the scheme design,
implementation and operation (SAR 1995)
SCOPE OF WORK
The Environmental Cell Unit (ECU) of the Irrigation section carried out the Initial Environmental
Examination (lEEs) in 15 traditional Irrigation schemes to ascertain environmental issue and sLiggest
mitigation measures that have to be incorporated during scheme design, Construction and Operation
and Maintenance.  Based on the IEE findings, IEE Reports were prepared as part of Scheme
Improvement Assessment Studies.
The consultants in collaboration with ECU will be required to carry out Environmental Audit in seven
(7) group B Scheme of Ruanda Majenje, Igomelo, Mangalali, Nyamahana, Soko, Kambi ya Tanga and
Mahenge irrigation schemes. The consultant did environmental Review of Lemkuna irrigation scheme
in 2001, thus it requires an Environmental and Social Management Plan only. The schemes are now in
operation phase.
The assignment is a continuation of the last activities of Environmental Audit of group A and C
irrigation schemes. This will be done in accordance with GoT and World Bank safeguard policies
LOCATION OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES
Name of scheme       Location                 Area (ha)  Irrigation crops
1.  Igomelo               Mbarali District         300        Paddy, maize, vegetables
2.   Ruanda Majenje       Mbarali District         450        Maize, paddy, vegetables
3.   Mangalali            Iringa Rural District    190        Vegetables, maize and paddy
4.   Nyamahana            Iringa Rural District               Paddy, vegetables
5.   Kambi ya Tanga       Arumeru District         410        Maize, cassava, vegetables, bananas
6.   Soko                 Moshi RLural District    370        Paddy
7.   Mahenge              Korogwe District         300        Paddy, maize
8.   Lemkuna              Simanjiro                430        Paddy



AVAILABLE REPORTS
The reports available at the Irrigation Section (PFT) include Initial Environmental Examination,
Eiigineerinlg, Socio-Economic, Topographical Surveys, Agronomy/Agriculture and Water Resource
Studies.
The consultant is therefore required to compile quantitative and qualitative information from these
supplemented by field visit in order to have baseline information on environmental issues to develop a
model for future review of Initial Environmental Examination reports under RBMSIIP.
TIMING
The consultant is expected to spend about five monthi starting May 2003.
OUTPUTS
The consultant will be required to produce 17 copies of reports for each irrigation scheme for review by
NEMC in hard copy and in MS Word diskette for submission to World Bank for review.
The document should address the following issues:
. Analysis of Engineering, Socio Economic, Agricultural, Soils and Water Resources reports in
order to provide quantitative information given the qualitative information in the IEE reports.
• Compliance with EIA procedures according to the Government of Tanzania and World Bank
guidelines.
* Proper methodology and approach including criteria for assessment,
* Integrated Pest Management.
* Prepare Environmental Management plan to specify clearly who and when m itigation measures
can be implemented.



APPENDIX 2:                     List of Persons Met
1. Rajabu Mpinga
2. Mrs. Luvanga
3.  Mr. Maulaga
4.  Augustino lyetu
5.  Village Chairman
6. Village Executive Officer (VEC)
7.  Village Chairman
8. Medical Assistant (M.A)
9. Ward Health Officer
10. Livestock Officer
11. Agriculture Officer
12. Livestock Officer



APPENDIX 3:                            PARTICIPATORY ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
ACTION PLAN
SIN    Problem           Causes              Effects           Mitigation            Implementers       Tinme to implemeuit
measures
I     Canals womn out    Canals are not     Loss of water      Repair               District Water     Nov. 2002
concrete; Animals                                           Depairment;
destroy canals                                              Farmers
2      Bad routes to     Flowing ram        Wom-out canals     Repair                Farmers; District  Nov. 20113
canals             water                                                      Engineer
3     No bridges over    Missing from       Cattle destroy     Construct Bridges     Distr-ict Engineer;  Nov 2003
canals             original           canals                                  Farmer s
construction plans                                  .
4      Gates wom out     Flowing water      Unregulated water-  Repair               District Engineer;  Nov. 2003
passage                                 Farmers
S     Much siltation     Sand driven by     Inefficient use of  Remove sand          Farmers            Nov. 2003
water              water
6      High salinity     Salt in the ground  Bum crops         Use more inputs       Fanmers            Nov 2003
7     Cattle wandering   Cattle herders     Destroy canals     Cattle herders be     Cattle farmers     Sept. 2003
insensitive to                        disciplined
farmers
8      Hippos, monkeys   Destructive        Destroy crops and  Collective campaign   Farmers            Sept. 2003
traverse fields    animals            fields
9      Inadequate        More formers       Pressure on land   Scheme expansion      District Irrigation  Sept. 2003
irrigated land     motivated to use                                           Officer; Farmers
irrigated land
10    Fertilizer         No cash            Low yield          Soft loans to buy    District            Sept. 2003
unaffordable                                             Fertilizer           Agriculture
Officer; Famiers
11    Diseases attack    No medicines       Poor yield         Soft loan to buy     District           Sept 2003
crops                                                    Fertilizer           Agriculture
Officer; Farmer-s
12    Water              Missing plan by    Ineffective water  Union leaders plan   Union leaders      Oct. 2003
Distribution Plan  management         distribution       distribution
13    Inadequate         Not enough water   Diseases due to    Expand intake        District Water      Sept. 2003
domestic water     at intake          lack of hygiene                         Department;
supply                                                                        Donors; Farmers
14    Malaria, TB,       Diseases related to  Less productive  Environmental         District Health    Sept 2003
Typhoid,           water logged areas  fanmers           sanitation campaign  officials; Farmers
Schistosomiasis,
HIV
15    Storage facilities  No cash for       Loss of produce    Soft loans to buy     District           Oct. 2003
buying sisal bags                     sisal bags            Agriculture
Officers; Farmers
16    Insecticides       No cash for        Loss of produce    Soft loans to buy     District Veterinary  Oct. 2003
unaffordable       buying                                insecticides         O fficer
insecticides
17    Poor market for    No producers       Low cash           Form cooperatives     Distr ict          Nov. 21)03
pr-oduce           cooper-atives for                                          Cooperative
selling                                                     officials
18    Lack of certified  Over use of land   Low productivity   District officials    District           Oct 2003
seeds                                                    assist farmers about  Agr-iculture
seeds                 officials
19    Barren and         Lack of collective  Low productivity  Use more in puts      District           Sept. 2003
exhausted land in  spirit to work                        -fallow system       Agriculture
the rain-fed areas  together                             -crop rotation       officials; Farmers
20    No farmers union   Lack of collective  Fanmers exploited  Form cooperatives    District           Sept. 2003
in rain-fed areas  spirit to work                                             Cooperative
together                                                    officers; Farmers
21    Poor market for    No cooperatives    Farmers exploited  Form cooperatives     District           Sept. 2003
produce from rain  for selling                                                Cooperative
fed areas          produce                                                    officers; Farmers
22     Depend on rain    Climate             Low productivity  Get fields from       Union leaders      Nov. 2003
for production in                                        irrigated land
the rain-fed areas



APPENDIX        4:             World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01). Outlines Bank policy and procedure for the environmental
assessment of Bank lending operations. The Bank undertakes environmental screening of each
proposed project to determine the appropriate extent and type of EA. The Bank classifies the project
into one of four categories, depending on the type, location, sensitivity, and the scale of the project and
the nature and magnitude of its potential environmental impacts. RBMSIIC is Category B..
Natfral Habitats (OP/BP 4.04). The conservation of natural habitats, like other measures that protect
and enhance the environmenit, is essential for long-term sustainable development. The Bank does not
support projects i nvolving the s ignificant c onversion of natural habitats unless t here are no feasible
alternatives for the project and its citing, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall benefits
from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the environmental assessment
indicates that a project will significantly convert or degrade natural habitats, the project includes
mitigation measures acceptable to the Bank. Such mitigation measures include, as appropriate,
minimizing habitat loss (e.g. strategic habitat retention and post-clevelopment restoration) and
establishing and maintaining an ecologically similar protected area.
Pest Management (OP 4.09). The policy supports safe, affective, and environmenitally sound pest
management. It promotes the use of biological and environmental control methods. An assessment is
made o f the capacity o f the c ountry's regulatory framework and institutions to promote and s upport
safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management.
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The resettlement policy is triggered when people are affected
by loss of land, loss of property and/or loss of access to resources. It is therefore irrelevant whether or
not the impact will entail physical relocation of the affected people, the policy is triggered in all such
cases This means that the impact may be of such kind that only compensation in cash or kind is
necessary.
Indigentouis Peoples (OD 4.20). This directive provides guidance to ensure that indigenous people
benefit from development projects, and to avoid or mitigate adverse effects of Bank-financed
development projects on indigenous people Measures to address issues pertaining to indigenous
peoples must be based on the informed participation of the indigenous people themselves.
Forests (OP/BP 4.36). This policy applies to the following types of Bank-financed investment projects
(a) projects that have or may have impacts on the health and quality of forests, (b) projects that affect
the rights and welfare of people and their level of dependence upon or interactioni with forests, and (c)
projects that aim to bring about changes in the management, protection, or utilization of natural forests
or plantations, whether they are publicly, privately, or commtnally owned. The Bank does not finance
projects that, in its opinion, would involve significant conversion or degradation of critical forest areas
or related critical habitats. If a project involves the significant conversion or degradation of natural
forests or related natural habitats that the Bank determines are not critical, and the Bank determines that
there are no feasible alternatives to the project and its citing, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates
that overall benefits from the project su bstantially outweigh the e nvironmental c osts, t he Bank may
finance the project provided that it incorporates appropriate mitigation measures.
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37). For the life of any dam, the owner is responsible for ensuring that
appropriate measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for the safety to the dam, irrespective
of its funding sources or construction status. The Bank distinguishes between small and large dams.
Small dams are normally less than 15 m in height, this category includes, for example, farm ponds,
local silt retention dams, and low embankment tanks. For small dams, generic dam safety measures
designed by qualified engineers are usually adequate.
Cultuhral Property (OPN 11.03). The term "cultural property" includes sites having archaeological
(prehistoric), paleontological, historical, religious, and Linique natural values. The Bank's general policy
regarding cultural property is to assist in their preservation, and to seek to avoid their elimination. The
Bank (i) n ormally declines to finance projects that will si gnificantly damage non-replicable c ultural
property, and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed to prevent such damage, and (ii)
will assist in the protection and enhancement of cultural properties encountered in Bank-financed



projects, rather than leaving that protection to chance. The management of cultural property of a
country is the responsibility of the government. The government's attention will be drawn specifically
to what is known about the cultural property aspects of the proposed project site. Appropriate agencies,
NGOs, or university departments will be consulted if there are any questions concerning cultural
property in the area, and a brief reconnaissance survey will be undertaken in the field by a specialist.
Projects oni International Waterways (7.50). The Bank recognizes that the cooperation and good will
of riparian is essential for the efficient utilisation and protection of intemational waterways and
attaches great importance to riparian making appropriate agreements or arrangement for the entire
waterway or any part thereof. Projects that trigger this policy include hydroelectric, irrigation, flood
control, navigation, drainage, water and sewerage, industrial, and similar projects that involve the use
or potential pollution of international waterways. The riparian are being notified in accordance with
this policy, no additional steps need to be taken at the level of the subprojects.
Disputed Areas (OP/BP/7.60): Projects in disputed areas may occur between the Bank and its member
countries as well as between the borrower and one or more neighbouring countries. Any dispute over
an area in which a proposed project is located requires formal procedures at the earliest possible stage.
The Bank attempts to acquire assurance that it may proceed w ith a project in a disputed area if the
governments concerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute, the project proposed can go
forward without prejudice to the claims of the country having a dispute.



