Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8379
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 1666-KO)
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the perfonnance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not othenrise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EMUIVALENTS
Curreacy Unit - Korean Won ( I )
APPRAISAL                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
US 3 1.0 *    1 485.80          US £ 1.88 - I 892.56  ( Dec.31.198S )
I 1.00 - US 3 C.00206           5 1.08 * US  S. 8.S112 ( Dec.31.1985 )
UNITS AND EQUIVALENT
I meter (i)                     a 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                -  0 62 miles
I hectare (ha)                 -  10.81C  square meters
- 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)    -  0.386 square miles
- too h
1 cubic moeter (cu a)              35.31 cubic feet
-  1.883 liters (1)
-  264.2 U.S. gellons 
I million cubic meters (MCM)  -  818 acre - feet
I megawatt (MW)                 -  1.868 kilowatts (kwn)
I gigawatt hour (GWk)           -  I million kilowatt h.urs (kWh)
I kilovolt (kV)                 -  1.830 volts (V)
I too                          *  1.800  kilogram (kg)
-  2.295 pounis
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC     -  Agriculture Development Coperation
DCF     -  Discount Cask Flow
ECI     -  Engineering Consultants Inc.
El.     -  Denotes elevation above mean see level
EDR     -  Equalizing Discount Rate
EPB     -  Economic Planning Board
ISWACO  -  Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
KDB     -  Koreen Development Bank
KEPCO   -  Korea Electric Power Corporation
MCI     -  Ministry of Commerce end Industry
MHSA    -  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOC     -  Ministry of Construction
OECF    -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
USAID   -  United States Agency for lnternetional Development
USBR    -  United States Bureau of Reclamation
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIUL Us: ONLY
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Oft,t M Ov.ctn-e.GwaI
February 6, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Korea
Chungiu MultigurDose Proiect (Loan 1666-KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Korea - Chungju Multipurpose Project (Loan 1666-KO)"
prepared by the Borrower with an Overview by the Asia Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
Thus document hu a reuicd distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the performnce
of their ofcial duties. Its contnts may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authorftion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
*                                             KOREA
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (LOANI 1666-KO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .........................................................       i
Basic Data Sheet ...............  .                                    ii
Highlights ...........iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  INTRODUCTION .       ............................................... 1
2. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL. .                 1
A. ORIGIN                           .1
Special Circumstances (Background). 
Role of the Parties in Identification.                          3
Alternative Components.                                         3
Effectiveness of the Feasibility Study.                         4
B.  PREPARATION, APPRAISAL, NEGOTIATION AND APPROVAL.               5
Preparation ..                                                  5
Changes. .                                                      6
Bank's Insistance Covenants        .        .                   6
Appointment of Consultants        ..                            7
C. TARGETS AND GOALS       ...................8................... 
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ..................................          8
3. IMPLEMENTATION..                                                    11
A. EFFECTIVENESS AND START-UP                 ..11
B. REVISIONS                        ....11
Important Changes                   .... 11
Reject of the Bank .......      ..............................    13
Reallocation of the Loan ...............................   14
Implementation of Covenants .....      .......................    14
C. IDPLEMENTATION ........       .................................    15
Implementation ...............................................    15
Completed Project Description ........... .. .............   16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)
Page No.
D.  PROCUREMENT * ............. .. .. . . .. s.   ..................    20
E.  COSTS    .        .........................................    21
F.  DISBURSEMENTS ........        ..................................    23
4.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS            ..........................................    24
A.  COST ALLOCATION ........         ................................    24
B.  POWER TARIFFS .................... ......................    26
C.  ARRANGEMENTS FOR COMPENSATION FOR WATER SUPPLY
AND FLOOD CONTROL ......................................    27
D.  ENERGY SALES TO DATE ...................................    28
5.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ......... .........    28
A.  CHANGES OF THE ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE ....            ..............    28
B.  PRIORITY OF THE ORGANIZATION ...........................    29
C.  MAJOR IMPROVEMENT OF THE ORGANIZATION ....           ..............    30
D.  GROWTH OF ISWACO .......................................    31
6.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ...................          ...................    32
7.  BANK PERFORMANCE ..................... ......................    37
APPENDICES
1.   Project Location Map ...................          ...................    39
2.   Chungju Dam General Layout ..............      ..     ................    40
3.   Chungju Regulation Dam General Layout .            ....................  41
4.   Project Implementation Schedule ........... ..          ..............    42
5.   Salient Feature of the Project ............ ..          ..............    43
6.   Reallocation cf the IBRD Loan .............................    47
7.   Contracts Under IBRD's Procurement Guidelines ...... .......    48
8.   Contracts Under OECF's Procurement Guidelines ..            ...........    49
9.   Summary of the Project Costs ............. ..          ...............    50
10.  Detailed Actual Costs ..................          ...................   51
11.  Annual Expenditure of the Project Costs ..             .................    55
12.  Comparison of the Project Costs ........... ..          ..............    56
13.  Detailed Disbursement of the IBRD Loan                .       .         57
14.  Annual Disbursement of the IBRD Loan ......... .. ...........    58
15.  Detailed Disbursement of the OECF Loan ...................        .     59



Table of Contents (Cont.)
Page No.
16. Susmary of Alternative Construction Cost for
Cost Allocation ..........................................*  60
17. Cost Allocation by Separable Costs - Remaining
Benefits Method ......................------------ 61
18. Final Cost Allocation for the Project .62
19. Monthly Generation of Power .63
20. Organization of ISWACO ....................................   64
21. Proportion of Replacement Cost.                                65
22. Yearly Water Demand Projection and Benefits .66
23. Yearly Growth Rate and Flood Benefits  .67
24. Economic Reanalysis for the CHungju Multipurpose Project ..   68
25. Results of Sensitivity Test (Case 1) .69
26.  Results of Sensitivity Test (Case 2) .70



i
KOREA
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (LOAN 1666-XO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Chungju
Multipurpose Project in Korea, for which a loan of US$125.0 million was
signed on March 29, 1979. The Project was jointly financed with the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, which provided a loan
of Yen 14 billion or US$70.0 million equivalent. The loan closing date was
originally June 30, 1985, but this was extended by six months
to December 31, 1985. The final disbursement was made on January 22, 1986.
The undisbursed balance of US$1.01 million was cancelled at that time.
This report consists of an Overview, the Basic Data Sheet and the
PCR. The PCR of December 1986 was prepared by the Borrower, Industrial
Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO) of Korea. The
Overview (Highlights), prepared by AS3AG, is based on the attached PCR,
the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1932a-KO dated February 21, 1989), Presi-
dent's Report (No. P-2478-KO dated March 2, 1979), Loan Agreement dated
March 29, 1979 and Bank supervision mission reports.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on November 21, 1989, for comments
by December 31, 1989, but none were received.



- ii -
Kg*t1  G     O NtItPtW1g    U     I P LOg A lttFtOl
E1~ ~ ~~~OC 0.0111 lIt iiti    Wl
T~~~~ M Util mm
a m _                                       k~~~~~~~~~~~Atul wY  ktott  4 z
Pwti      gatt             of Ptina) a
~uraiu1           Ctrrut            d  v   tdie
luntattm          tlitlAte             bltUt4
prolet caut lo  :I41iu                    ItO.O             W02.4               IU
Li  a t (UU elltil)                       125.0              123.9 
C04tOu til  (IECf, JM         IS ttiliul    70.0             t*.9                9
kt. gacatl   s           te cowletud      12184              12199
Prezrtt. the coa ld  III                100                100
netmi rat o rdtten tI)                      It                ls.s
FtIR&Kl  afWnaec                                           Patta0etary
1ehical  wforwce                                           ficaIIut
OrllU't
Fla              kttttS
Projet brief  Ueaei*litty Stuif                            I1N117
Pat of taida   awt twtter.                                 091291t7
kte of aeeti*ent                                           10/t70
Pte of bard ao                                             03120179
kt of qr_tt sttltt                                         0312t/79
ate of 1ledti,unt                      h01291t             071 HIll
Lo  Clnnq dab                          0I 30/I9            12131199
FYN0     FY61     FM2      F79      FM       FM0      FMt
swtaia  ettiite (Up   ilteiul             9.10      32.0    *2.80    91.20   114.70   125.00
_Wts) (   ailltni                         6.3       38.45   t4.27    93.n   ol7S.34   121.9    It2.9
ktag a  t oattti,te                        U5        Iti      104      92       94       9
III cucelid It.  eltiItl                                                                         1.01
Pte at i:td  f1*rsbet, Juawy 22, 196*
Pat    00. af  Pa  to  Pertae. d     atiqg Tyo* f
lwyrI   Pera.    Field    Htat        Treed  Pr011W
rewatual                                  0o177       a        94
AWASS11,    09177       5       lOS
kntobl                 it       In9
Saparisamm 107179                                     1        7       2        2        T
seiervel 2                                11179       t       21       2        2        F
saplitetl  3                              OlBO1       I       13        1       I
Swr9tue *                                 02181       1        7        1       2
lirmtooe 5                                11S11       3       22        1       2        F
Paetrlela t                               11/12       4       20       2        3        F
SWl" iu   7                              11/63       I        *        I       I        P
12      99
23     291
Parr./izacet:e  99ucd lau trial Sit" ad titer beacee P lcoeut Car.   1601
ua tator                               The Inublinc cf Kra
Fiscal rr Y0 borrwr                      aaury 1 -  bawr 3S
EM Of corran, (a4reti,onI              Pm  WII
r as.ul "oar avora  t1977           tU1.00 a 1 4. 5              Ito bInrded 11taYtOSu
Irtervnea     yearH awlv  (e1179-841  11.10 * 6704
Cult   enar av er0e11 (91           161.00 * 6 03                Lw                 25.0                                                                3
LEM                *1.0
LEM                 5.0
Po                 23.0
Tata t         114.0
PertaewC  Patlq tTtTUSt  I *a Priblee-fror at ew  Frokime   2 * Ibete Pra*le, 3   Pastr Problee
Perfeae btta   9  I     * lePtnaq, 2 a Statelivy  3 * Phteriorattrt
TyW  d  Pratlfu   U * aFtaacima1 T * Tc* nCel, P O * 0ther ttr *,auclall raallsIlitac*isca
WR1  Bottom of Iacurate data recarda  at 918, P"  to Fiell Udtee N19510091  at Tin P.wdb
hti     ts) aider OUR10 PlWltIOtA areot ete"taite t             lai   e tIe e.4ervletb femuti
le  Gthu  releet dKets er file.
0O49t94



- iii -
KOREA
THE CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (LN. 1666-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
Introduction
1.       The Chungju Multipurpose project has played a key role in the
development of the Han River Basin, which covers 262 of Korea's land area
and contains 50Z of its industry and nearly one-third of its population.
The project, consisting of a dam and powerplant on the south branch of the
Han River,.was needed to satisfy the Basin's rapidly growing demands for
municipal, industrial, and irrigation water. It has also helped to meet
Korea's growing power demands and has significant flood control benefits.
The project was implemented by the Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation (ISWACO). A loan of $125 million was extended to
ISWACO under a loan agreement signed on March 29, 1979. The loan became
effective on July 31, 1979 and was closed on December 31, 1985. The final
disbursement was made on January 22, 1986. ISWACO also obtained financing
of Yen 14,000 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OEC?) of
Japan.
2.       ISUACO prepared the attached completion report which has been
reviewed by Bank staff and found to be a fair and thorough account of
project implementation and the lessons learned.
The Project
History.  The project was identified during the Han river Basin
Study carried out by the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) in
1971. The object of the survey, financed by USAID, was to formulate a
long-range comprehensive plan for developing the Basin's water resources.
An important findings of the USBR study was that additional storage would
be needed in the Basin by the mid-1980s to supplement the storage provided
by existing dams on the north branch of the Han. A feasibility study of
the project was carried out in 1976 by Engineering Consultants Incorporated
(ECI) of Denver, USA. The project was appraised by the Bank in 1977.
4.       Proiect Features.  The main features of the project are a 90 meter
high concrete dam on the South Han River, a power house with four 115 MW
generating units, and a regulating dam with a 12 MM capacity about 20 km
downstream. The project involved the resettlement of 7,100 families living
in the reservoir area and compensation for their land and properties, ^_
well as relocation of nearly 300 km of roads and 13 kri of railroad.
5.       Project Implementation.  ISWACO appointed Nippon Koei of Tokyo,
Japan as the project consultants. Also, on the recommendation of the Bank,
ISWACO secured the services of a three-man consulting panel (a design
engineer, a geologist, and a concrete expert). This was the first time a



- iv -
consulting panel was employed for a major dam in Korea. A special problem
in the design of the project involved a large area of unstable rock on the
right abutment which was originally iaentified by ECI during the
feasibility study. Close collaboration between the consultants, the panel
and ISWACC's engineer led to a solution being incorporated in the contract
designs. Hence, a potentially troublesome problem was foreseen and
resolved.
6.       The principal contracts for the main dam and the reregulating dam
were awarded to Hyundae Construction Co., following international
competitive bidding. Both contracts were completed on schedule. A joint
venture of Daewoo Heavy Industry and Toshiba Corporation won the contracts
for the turbines and generators.
7.       ISWACO, in cooperation with the provinces, did an excellent job in
handling the resettlement program. New towns were constructed around the
periphery of the reservoir to cater to the 7,100 displaced families.
ISWACO paid for the cost of site acquisition, the new public facilities and
services to the new housing sites, while the residents paid for their new
dwellings using the proceeds of compensation and, where necessary, loans on
favorable terms from the Korea Housing Bank.
_.       Project Costs.  The total project cost was $602 million compared
to the appraisal estimati of $510 million, an increase of 18Z. Expressed
in Korean Won, the total cost was W588 billion compared to the appraisal
estimate of W247 billion, an increase of 138Z. During implementation the
won declined from W485-US$l to W893=US$1. The main reasons for the cost
increases were a considerable overrun in resettlement costs, and
construction of the relocated roads and rail track to higher standards than
the facilities replaced.
9.       Economic Rate of Return.  At appraisal the project's ERR was
estimated at 121. In its PCR, ISWACO estimates the ERR as 13.9Z after
taking into account changes in cost and other factors. This is probably a
reasonable approximation since there have been no other significant changes
in the assumptions made at appraisal, except for an increase in the bulk
water tariff which offset the cost increase.
10.      Covenante.  ISWACO was in compliance with the main loan covenants
by completion of the project.
Performance of the Borrower and the Bank
11.      ISWACO did an excellent job in procurement and contract management
for all phases of the project. Of particular note was ISWACO's performaace
in handling the resettlement program in cooperation with the provinces, and
in securing additional funds to overcome severe budget cuts in 1983 by
borrowing from the Oil Surplus Fund.
12.      The Bank worked closely with ISWACO in the early stages of the
project to resolve some important issues in project formulation identified
in the feasibility report. A proposal to include provision for future
raising of the dam was dropped when it was shown that the cost would far



outweigh the benefits; in fact, the project as constructed provides
virtually complete cont-:ol of the river. The installed capacity was
increased to 460 MW from 270 MWJ and the mode of reservoir operation was
changed to minimize loss in peaking capability without loss in water supply
benefits. The project benefited from the services of an independent
consulting p&nel, as recommended by the Bank. Finally, the provision of
financing for the engineering of the Nakdong Barrage Project, as suggested
by the Bank, led to the timely execution of this project which is vital to
the future water supply of the Pusan area.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
KOREA
CilUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (LOAN 1666-KO)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.11   O  20 July 1978.  the  Bank  approved a  loan  of  S  125.6  million to
finence tke foreign exchenge cost of tke Ckungju Doe Multipurpose Development
Project  in the Republic of Koree.    The Loan Agreement was signed on 29 Merec
1979  and  the  loan  became  effective on  I  July  1979.    The  Project  was
comissioned on schedule on tie *rd of 1984. although sone of works were not
completed  untill  33 June 1985.    The closing late of the loan  was  extended
from 36 June 1985 to 31 Deceuier 1985 for the landseaping end provisional
civil  wWr%s of contract No.  79/C/81i    It weo  finally ciosed on 22  Januery
1986.
2.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION.PREPARATION AMD APPRAISAL
A. ORIGIN
SPECIAL CIRCUISJANCES (BACKGROUNi)
2.31    POPULATION ;    About one third of the Korea population in 1978 resided
to  the Han River basin cevering 26 S of Koreeas lend  area.    The  lewer  Hea
River  area  including  Seoul and Inaceon accounts for about 25 X of the  Kerea
population.    Tho  peoplatioe  ef  Seoul  was 7.25 million   in  1978  ead  the
entire Hen Ri7er bhsin was to beve a population of 9.S million.            Thus.  the
population of Seoul would be 8.6 million in 1981 end tie entire Ran River basin
would expect to kave population of about 11.4 million.



2
2.2    ECONOMIC  GROWTH ;   In  the post two decedes.  tke  economy  boo  made
rapid progress in *anufactural sector and in otber industrial sections.
Tbe *uoal rats of growth in GNP per capita during the 1961-1974 period
is about 9 percest.    Growth of industrial output bha  mde very rapid advances
ia  the  past  five years.    The index of industrial production has  show.  en
increase of 185l   from 1976 to 1975.
2.83     MUNICIPAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER SUPPLY ;         As growth in  tke  service
area continues, demand for water, especially below Paldang. will increase
rapidly.    Should  river  flows become critically limited in  the  Seoul  area
due to the combination of dVy periods and beavy upstream water demands.
salt   water   intrusion  frou'  tidal  movements  can  be  a  serious   hazard.
Tbo projections in the Han River Basin Reconnaissance ( hereinafter refered
to  as   HR8R   ) report show that U & I water demans  downstream  of  Paldeng
would exceei the existing supply by the mid 1980's.
Projections  based  on  field  studies  in  1976  during  the  preparation   of
feasibility  report.  lead  to  the same conclusions.    It  is  apperent  that
additional major storage facilities such as the Chungju Project on the South
Han River will be needed without delay. especially. when considering tie time
necessary for detailed planning. design and construction.
2.84     FLOOD  CONTROL ;    About 55 X of the annual runoff concentrates  only
io  3  months from July to September.   About 79 X of the annual  precipitation
occurs in four month  June.  July.  August and September.    Therefore. the Han
River basin has been subjected to frequent flooding during the months of July
through September.
2.85     THE  POWER  SECTOR ;    Jitk  rapilly  rising  iniustrial  production.
employment and GNP. there is no doubt that desmnds for electric power will
increase at a rapid rate.   Hydroelectric power resources in Korea are limited.
As compared with large thermal power plants. either fossil-fueled or nuclear.
hydroelectric  generating  facilities  have the  adventage  of  flexibility  of
operation. use of a renewable resources as a prime mover. and the absence of
both  thermal and air pollution effects.        The HRBR report concluded  that  a
hydroelectric plant at dam such as Chungju. should be designed ani operated
as a peaking facility to take advantage of the hydro-flexibility.
286     IRRIGATION ;    Tie agricultural sector in the Korean economy has made
relatively slow progress in proiuction compared with the other sectors.
However, it is believed that this can be partially alleviated in the
foreseeable  future  through improved  agricultural  practices.    Without  the
Project.  crops  my suffer from shortage of water for proper growth under  the
prevailing rainfall conditions in this area. Water shortages may occ4r during
planting. thus effecting proper seeding and the growing season. seriously
decreasing  the yield.   Tierefore,  the ievelopment of irrigation will nead to
improve the rice production. including the existing irrigatios system sad
the other factors relatei to it.



3
ROLE OF THE PARTIES IN THE IDENTIFICATION
2.97    THE BAMK :   Tie Bank has reviewed on the owerall course of the Project
(e.g. the necessity of projects develoepent, background etc) and disecussed
in details with the perties coaceruad to assist in finaucing tio project.
As a result of it. tie Bank bhs prepared ti. Stsff Appraisel Report for tie
purpose of analysis of the Project justification.
2.08     THE  GOVERNMENT  ;    Tie result of the study on tie  Cihngju  Project
made by Hen River Basin Survey bee revealed tie 1st priority followed by
Soyeang project and the largest potential hydropower in the Han River Basin.
Thus. Chuntju Project has been involved in the Dan Development Decade Program
and the 3rd 5 year Economic Development Scheme by the Government.
With a aim of in corporating the above ProJect. the Government ase made effort
to support ISWAC0 ond discuss with the Bank.
2.69     ISWACO  ;    According  to  changed economy and the  oil  price  rised
internationally. ISWACO hes insisted on urgent requirement of potential
hydropower  development  in  Han  River  basin.    Thus.  ISWACO  has  demaned
assistance and cooperation for the Project to the Government.
ALTERNATIVE COMPONENTS
2.10     An  alternative  to  upstream storage consideret  in  the  USBR  study
was the cestruction of a berrage at Nangeng downstream of Seoul on tie lower
Han.    Such  a  barrage would prevent salinity Intrusion and hence allow  some
reduction in tie maintenance flow requirements.    USBR rejected this  solution
because it would be necessery to divert all municipal ane industrial effluents
downstream of the berrage.    This alterneative was considered during approisal.
In addition to the objection noted by USBR it was found that even if the
mointeaence flow were reduced by 68 X in the six-monts dry season ( a total
volume  of  908  ECM ) it would defer the need for upstream  storage  for,  only
about  five  years.    Thus.  it  was concluded that the  Hangeng  Barrage  was
inferior to upstream storage in meeting the water needs of the Han Basin.
2.11     Other  than  Chungju.   tie  only  large  undeveloped  reservoir  site
in  the  Hen  Basin  is  on the Hongcheon River.  a  tributary  of  North  Han.
The dam would provide complete regulation of an annual runoff of some 1.000
MCM.    Constructed by 1985.  Hontgceon would meet incremental downstream water
demonds through 1992.    The project would hove an installed capacity of 108 MW
and  generate  about  146 GW  in an  average  year.    Flood  control  benefits
would   e megligible    Tits projeca was chosen as the first is the sequence of
projects  forming  an  aItermative  to  Chuugju.    Tbere  are  three  possible
projects to be considered for ceastructioa to meet daemnds after Hoagchesa.
These are Yeoiu on the South Han. and elcheo eaid Kanhyom botb en tributaries
of  the Soutb Han.    In the case of tie letter two.  the annual runaoff is only
about 1.011 MCM and would not te fully regulated because at both sites the
topogroapy  limits  the reservoir capatity to about 780 1CM.    At  Yeoju.  the



4
steorge cepecity is only 800 MCI. but the upstream cetehsent aree is very
larg   ead  etsueal runoff iS of the order of 7.398 1CM.    The useful yield  of
YeelJ would be greater then the other twe reservoirs and would met deunstreem
imeremete  l demd: for a longer period.    Yeoiu has therefore been chesee as
the sext project in the eltermative sequence to be in service by l991.
the heed evoileble for power generation would be only about 23 *. ead tie
installed cepecity would be biout 13 MW and annual energy cemorotion some
233 GIb.
2.12     The  feesibility study by ECI revealed that the Chuntgu  Project  with
o don coastructed to a height of El. 176.0 * would result in the mximu- net
benefit.   However.  giving due consideration on social problems to be involved
owing to the inundation of greeter scale including the Soong Sin cement plant
as well es an avoiding extremely hith initial cost of the project. ECI
reconmendet two staces development, consisting of the first stege of the dem
constructed to a crest level El. 153.5 a and power installed cepecity of 210 MW
and the Second stage of the full seale completion.
2.13   However.  e dam of lower crest elevation.  i.e. El. 153.5 m. it involved
the problem of inunlation of various properties including the Seont- Sin
cement  rlent.    Tterefore.  plans  with further lowered crest elevetion  have
been  taken  up  for  consideration.         The  selected  dam  crest  levels  for
comperative  study  are  El1.5l.  a.  El.147.S a  end  El.145.5 a.
As a result of various trial, reservoir operation studies to estimate the
combined benefits of water supply. power generation and flood control in
accordance with the above deo height. the daK' with the crest elevation of
147.5 m is finally recomsended as most desirable in producing the biggest net
benefit.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
2.14    ECI  hoa  executed the feasibility study to review  the  vest  body  of
existing information of the Han River basin and to verify tie priority of the
Ckungju Project and to determine the scope of the Chungju Project in relation
with the otber projects along the Han River.    Besides. ECI has implemented in
technical. economic end financial feasibility study of the Project.
It described the result of the study on the most economic alternetive proving
that the construction of the Chungju multipurpose doa project hes first
priority in the present situation when compared with other alternative schemes
on the Han River basin and the optimization of the selected scheme in regard
its  proposed  water uses.    Thus.  the feasibility study of  the  above  were
very useful in the course of choice of the project.



5
B. PREPARATION. APPRAISAL. NEGWTIATION AND APPROVAL
PREPARATION
2.15       ISWACO  ;      For  the  purpose  of  developing  the  large  untapped
hydroelectric  potential  of the Han River Basin.  ISWACO.  together  with  the
Government. bas node an effort to ossist actively the Hln River Basin Survey
carried out by the United States Breo.  of Reclomation.          This survey began in
1966 end was completed in 1971.    An inportent finding of this survey was that
additional  storage would be needed in the basin ty 1986 end  this  requireoent
would be best satisfied by construction of the Chungiu dam.           ISWACO also has
executed  the  prefeasibility  stuiy  fron 1968 to  1971  by  itself.            Thus.
ISWACO. together with EC. has implemented the feasibility study to review the
result mentioned above and to verify the priority of the Ctungju Project end to
determine the scope of the Chungju Project ant to analysis technical. economic
and financial feasibility of the Project.
2.16    THE CONSULTANTS ;    The consultants has prepared the following parts
- Review of ECI's Feasibility Report and preparation of Preliminary Design
Report (e.g. Review of design flotd. Review of dam site geology. Review of
arrangeneat of structures. Design check of proposed structure. Alternative
study on doa height. Capacity of power generation. Reregulation dam.
Preliminary cost estimates. Construction equipment and plant planning)
- Geological and moterial investigation (e.g. Assistance t-o geological
investigation  by  [SWACO.   Geology  of  reservoir  area.  Evaluation  of
landslide possibility. Reservoir induced earthquakes. Rock test)
- Preparation   of  specification  design  (e.g.   Specification  design  of
construction plant foundation. Specification design of diversion works.
Specification design)
- Preparation of tender documents
- Preparation of engineer's cost estimates.
- Preparation of design report.
- Assistance to ISWACO in contract arrangement.
- Preparation of manuals and specification.
- Overseas training arrangement.
2.17      THE  BANK : The bonk's involvements in the preparation  process  were
summarized as follows;
- The matters on the constitution of the consulting panel.
- The matters on the selection of the project consultants.
- The matters on the decision of the dam crest.
- The utters en the increase of the generating capacity.
- Tie utters on the executing agency of tke project.
- Tie problem on the compensation of submergible area.



6
CHANCES
2.18    NEIGWT OF DAM          Lwering the height of dam by three meters to  eese
the problem of protecting the cemat plant from inuadetion ani tke cost of
constrectiou.
2.19    TUE INSTAULED CAPACITY :    In appraisel stage the Bank recommended  en
increase  in powerplant capacity from 218 VW  (3 units of 78 VW each) to 460  MW
(4 units of 115 MW each) in order to produce the highest net benefit at peak
time.      Reviewing  the  study ty ECI.  the consultant  recommended  that  the
power installation larger thon 218 M as proposed by ECI. should be taken into
consideretion egeinst the prospect of the peak daemnd growth toward 1988's.
The cost comparative study carried out for gas turbine. pumpedstorage.
combined cycle end hydropower such as Chung!u. showed that Chungju would be
the cheapest at the plant factor of about InX with installed capacity of 400MW.
Consequently. the installed power capacity for the project at final stage
was determined 400 MW (4 units of 108 NW each).
2.20      THE  LOCATION OF THE POWER HOUSE :    The location of the power  house
was changed on the right bank instead of the left benk as proposed by ECI
because of Mentioned below:
-Cost increase due to the necessities of steel lining of deversion tunnel
in the portion to be used as heedrece and provision of main valves.
- Serious ielay of the Project completion owing to a large amount of works
including penstock installation required after the closure of diversion
tunnel.
- Problems to power generation by including a high surge and- producing a
pile over the tailbay. etc.
2.21     The  above  changes  presented by ISWACO was  reviewed  by  the  Bank.
The Bonk in accordance with the result of the review reaiily agreed on these
changes.    The above chenges were very beneficial. in retrospect.
BANK S INSISTANCE COVENANTS
2.22    The Bank's insistence covenants were as follows
- The bank insisted that ISWACO instead of the Government would be appointed
as the representatives of executing agency for the Project. necessarily.
- The Bank recommended that ISWACO should employ a consulting panel as
advisors in reviewing end approving designs prepared by the consqltants
for the Proiect.
2.23      ISWACO  had a. abjection to organizing a c* msulting  panel  ead  being
the executing ageacy. it is found that these covenants proposed by the Sank
hs ceontribwted to impreve ISWASO's technical end constructing capacity ani
to assist in reviewing and approving designs prepared by the consultants.
in restrospect.



2.24       Generally.   project   preperetion  wes   carried   out   expediently.
There were net any unusual delays between identification and effectiveness.
AOINYI3NT OF CONSULTANTS
2.25      The Beok emphasi2ed tke need for early selection ani appointment of  a
consulting fire in order to implement the Project eerly, subjected to the
proposed  construction schdtule.           Consulting services for the Project design
nAd  supervision  was financed by OECP.            In December  t977.  ISWACO  invited
proposal   for  design  end  construction  from  four  Japanese    firms.   were
prequelified to bid for the detailed investigation. design end supervision
of the Proiect.        In tke course of sellection of the consulting firm.  ISWACO
end government were sent several times to the Bank in order to review end
comment  about the status of consulting services  concerned.                 Also.  ISWACO
applied for the Bank's approval about the results on the final evaluation of
the proposels.        ConsequePtly.  only two firms were selected as the qualified
tenderer among applicants who submitted their prequelification and tender
documents  except one firm in reason of period shortage.               Tie contract uinder
tie 8ank's approval was awarded to tke most qualified bider. NIPPON KOEI Co.. a
Japanese firm. in association with Smoen Engineering of Korea was selected in
March  1978  end  contract  wes signed in May 1978.              NIPPON  KOEI  has  wide
experience in the engeering of najor hydroelectric projects in Korea and
elsewbere.       The  value of the contract was Yen 1.489 million of Jernese  Yen
portion and f 985 million of Korean Won portion. respectively.
The consulting services was comenced On 18 May 1978 and finished on 3 Octover
1985.      The consultents.  whose terms and conditions of employment hove  been
reviewed by the Bank. will provide the following services;
- Detailed design and preparation of contract documents for the iam.
spillway and power house:
- Preparation of contract documents for mechanical and electrical
equipment ;
- Assistance to ISWACO in dovertisement of bids. prequalification of
bidders. evaluation of bids and award of contracts for civil works end
equipment :
- Supervision   of   civil   construction.    inspection   of   equipment
fairication. and supervision of equipment installation and performance
tests:
- Review and certification of payment requests submittei by civil  works
contractors and equipment suppliers
- Preparation of monthly and annual progress reports; end
- Assistance  to  ISWACO in the initial operation of the project and  in
establishing operation and maintenance procedures.
In  the  course  of the detailed design an4 censtructie.  sapevisies  for  the
Projeet. tie consultants carried out the services very wall.



8
C. TARC TS AND GOALS
2.26     Tse drainage besiss of Korea's four largest river.  the Meo.  Nakoeng.
Gown een Yong sun. eccount for nearly two-thirds of Korea's land arese.
Beeause  of  Korea's  mounaeineus  terrein.   most  of  its  o jor  cities  and
industrials as well as muc of its best agricultural leand lie along these major
rivers  and iepend on them for their water.   Korea bes the adventage  that  en
unusually high proportion of its annual precipitation. nearly 50 X eppears
as  surface water runoff.    However.  tkis advantage is offset by Korea's high
population density of about 358/sq km with the result that annual surftae
water runoff per capita is about 2.18 cu a compered to 4.3098 cu m for Japan
and 13.188 cu o for the U.S.A.
2.27      In  the  1906's  it  became apparent  thet  water  demands  for  city.
industries and forms would soen exceed the unregulated flow in the dry season
( Movember through Mareh ) wbeo only 15 X of the annual runoff occurs.    -
Also. with the rapid urban and industrial development. and the more intensive
cultivation of the farmlands. the consequences of floods had become much more
serious during the three months - July. August and September - when the rivers
carry so X of tie annual runoff.
2.28      Recognizing also the large untapped hydroelectric potential  of  these
river basins. as a result of the above, the government commissioned the
preparation of multipurpose development plans for each of Korea's four
major  river  basins.    Besides.  the  government  plan  concerning  long-term
development program was included in the Dam Development Decade Program and
in  tie  3rd 5 year Economic Development Plan.   The Chungju Project  also  was
Included in this plan.
2.29     The  Government and ISWACO reviewing in tie overall  scheme  mentioned
above. has determined the construction of the Chungiu project heving the
1st priority in the situation when comparei with otier alternetive schemes
end the largest potential hydropower in the Han river basin.
D. PROJECT DESCRIFTION
2.36     Tho  priacipal features of the proposed Chuogju  Multipurpese  project
are smarized below:
- Construction of a 96 a high concrete dan on tie South lin River :
- Construction of a powerhouse below the dea on the right bank of the
river ;



9
- Supply and installation of four 115 MW generating units an. appurtenant
and aloetrical equipuoat ;
- Supply and erection of a 16 km lotg. 154 kV double-circuit treassissien
lies;
- Construction of a eregulatoet  don about 2  km downstreae of the *ain des;
- Relocatien of about 100 km of rosis end 10 km of railway ;
- Construction of protective works in the reservoir area including the
raising  of  an  existing  flood  embankment  at  a  cement   plant.   and
miscellaneous works to ensure continued operation of a tole mine ;
- Implementation of a reservoir resettlement program including compensation
of some 9.301 families for lend end property. and assistance in their
resettlement ;
- Consulting services for detailed design and construction supervision of
the project :
- The services of an indepenient consulting panel to assist ISWACO in their
review and approval of the consultants' designs ; and
- Consulting services for detailed engineering of the Nakdong Barrage
Project. the next phase in the development of tho Nakdong River Basin.
2.31      MAIN  DAM  AND SPILUWAY          Tie concrete gravity doa  would  have  a
maximum height above streained of about 90 a and a crest lenthi of 450 x.
Tie upstream face would be vertical and the downstreas face would have a
slope of 8.75 to 1. The spillwey would have five 27 a high radial gates
with  a span of 15 *.   A stilling basin at the toe of the dam would  dissipate
the  energy  of the spillway discharge.    The dea  would contain about  988.068
cu  a  of concreate.    A 7 a wide service bridge would be provided  along  the
top  of  the  dem.    The only unusual feature the dea  will be  the  excavation
of some 5 million cu a of slide material on the right abutment.
2.32     DIVERSION TUNNELS AND COFFERDAMS ;          A flooi with a  25-year  return
period is generally adopted for the design of river diversiom works during
construction.    The  25-year  flood  for the wet  season  (July-September)  is
18.588 cu m/s. end for the dry season (October-June) is 3.508 tu i/sec.
In the proposei diversion scbeme. a concrete cofferdea would be built upstream
and  rockfill cofferdam downstream of tie dassite.    The downstream  cofferiea
would be armored with large rocks and heavy cable moes to withstand overflow
in  the  wet season.    The dry season flow would be diverted through two 12  a
diameter. concrete-lined, diversion tunnels each atout 538 * in length.
It would be too costly to provide for diversion of the wet-season flood
since it would require additional tunnels and bigher  cofferdass.    9berefore.
during wet seasons following completion of the tunnels. the cofferdams would
be overtopped and the river allowed to flow through the dea site.
2.33     POVER  FACILITIES :    The power plant would be located at the too  of
the  dam on the right bank.   Individual penstocks.  each B a  diameter.  wouli
connect the generating units to the poemr intakes in the dea.   Tie  powerhouse
would  be  equipped with four 115 MW generating units.   The  switchyard  would
be about 1.306 * from the powerhouse and would be linked to it by one single -
circuit and one double-circuit 154 kV tensmission line.    A 1-km long 154  kV
double circuit line will link the switchyard to the main grid at the Chungju



10
substation.
2.34     ROAD  AD RAILMAD RELOCATION :    Sections of two highways  totalling
le kw. including bridges witi a tstel length of 1.68 S. would resquire
relocation  in  the reservoir troe.    The railroea  connecting Seoul  to  Bisen
ps*ses  through  the reservoir aese.    About 1l  km of track would have  to  be
relocated. including eight tumnels with a total length of 936 a end eleven
bridges  with  a total length of SaO a.    Also a new 436 a  span  rail  bridge
across the South Hen would be neeied.
2.35     PROTECTIVE  WORKS IN RESERVOIR ;    An existing flood protection  dike
surrounding the Sung Sin cement plant would be raised by I a to El. 146 *.
This wouli protect the plant durin8 short periods when the reservoir level
rises above its normsl of El. 140.5 a for flood control. Works at the Dongyang
Tole mine would include sealing of en entrance to the nine at El. 137 a and two
disused entrances at El. 142 a end EI.144 o. A new entrance would be opened at
El.  168 a.   A retaining well about 29 m bigh end 136 a long would be built to
retain the tailings from the mine and prevent the mine wasters from polluting
th6 reservoir.
2.36    REREGU ATION DAM :   During the dry season the outflow from the Chungjtu
reservoir will be released throuth the powerplant for two or three hours
seeh day.    Thus.  without provision for reregulation of these releases. there
would  be  wide fluctuations in the flow of the Souti Han.    These changes  in
flow  would  cause  wide  veriations  in  water  levels  end  cause   operating
difficulties at the numerous intakes for irrigation. municipal and industrial
water  elong the river.    The reregulation dam is located 26 km downstream  of
the  Chungiu  Dam and with a storage capacity of 8 MC3.   it  would  store  the
daily  inflow and release a uniform flow to the river.    The Jos would consist
of a gate-controlled concrete weir about 340 a long with a crest at El. 58.a a.
some 8 a above its bedrock foundation.    It would have twenty. 15 a wide bays.
three  of  which would be controlled by 5 a high radial  gates.    These  gates
will control outflow in tie dry season when the other hays would be closed by
stoplogs.   Rereguletion of powerplant releases would be unnecessary iuring the
wet season ond the stoplogs would be raised to permit passage of flood flows.



11
3.   IWLZPIENTATION
A. EFFECTIVENESS AND START-UP
3.51     Tie  Loan  Agreement  was signed on 29 Merck  1979  end  was  declared
effective on I July 1979. that is. after a period of 92 days almost same as 98
lays  specified  in the loan documents.    There was no  special  problems  end
delays  in start - up period.    Tke works on access eatd and site  preraration
for the Project were underteken by the ISWACO during this perioi utilizing its
local funds.
B. REVISIONS
IWORTANT CHANGES
3.32    SPILLWAY SIZE ;    Originally. in tender design stage. the spillway was
have S bays with 15 a span each. EI.123 a overflow crest. 4 a thick piers
end  total width of 91 m.        The 91 m wide spillway results in unit  discharge
of 178 e aus/u for the design flood (16.800 eu m/9) eni 238 cu m/s/u for tke
PMF outflow.      Because such high unit discharges exceed those of setisfactory
performance records aovailable from other projects.         The item mentionei above
was pointed out by IBRD'S consulting panel in May 1979.    Thus. ISWACO finally
determined te widen the spillway from 5 bays to 8 beys each baving 15.5 m wiie
and overflow crest elevation of El 126.0 m.         Thickness of intermediate piers
was determined to be 3.5 m so as to surely support gate load and withstand
lateral water pressure.       Total width of spillway is 110.5 a including piers.
This spillway size satisfies tie discharge capacity requirement of 18.OOO
cu  u/s at the reservoir water level of El 145.0 m.    Tbus.  unit discharge of
the 6-boys spillway is 145 cu m/s/u for the design fluod and 185 cu m/s/u for
the PUP.
3.33    THE REREGULATION DAN ;    In the course of formulating the reregulation
dam shemet. a feasibility of the power generation at the reregulation ida
site  was  investiated in 1978.    However.  tie result was negative  at  that
time. althoutg it suggested to become feasible iepeanding upon the future oil
price  trend.    Since  1978  to  the beginaint of  1981.  the  oil  prite  has
radically  jmped  up  higher  then  3 times  ani  consequently  the  situation
in 1978 was chented very much.        Tbvs.  losed en above investigation  result.
the feasibility study of the power generation at the reregulation dam was



conducted in tie light of the latest availaile Information in the earlier
pert  of  1981.       As a result of optidization study on power installetion  at
rereguletion  ida.  tie optimum capecity of power gtmeration with  the  minimum
cost was determined 12 W comtrisiag two units of 6 MW plants.
Besides meationed above. reservoir H.W.L end L.W.L was El. 62.8 o and 58.0 a
respectively.  in  the  early  stage  of  appraisal.           However.  taking  into
consideration the installatieo of the power plant at tbe reregulation des.
optimum development was Zound to be H.W.L of 66.1 z end L.W.L of 65.8 a
respectiveljy  in  reviewing  the  report by  the  consultant.            Taking  into
consideration the social impact of inundation arees in the final stage of
design.  the  development  scheme was determined H.W.L of 65.1 m and  L.W.L  of
63.5 a respectively by lowering the H.W.L by 1.8 meter.
3.84      DISBURSEMENT RATE OF THE LOAN ;   Local financing budget for the civil
works  scheduled  in  1980 is so limitet  that  originaily  planned  completion
date(1985) should be delayed for one year at least.           In case of above delay.
looking management of ISWACO.  assessment of all of the revenues expected to be
made after the project completion will also be delayed and will be acted as
a worse factor in repayment of the Bank's loan comencing ctober, 1983.
Thus. the deficit for the civil cost is requested to the government.   However.
according  to  worsened  international  economic  situations  due  to   rapidly
increased oil price and the government's retrenchment policy to control the
infletion. it is hardly expected to get a supplementary budget.
Therefore. ISWACO has required early withdrawal of proceeds of the Bank's loan
for smootb implementation of civil works as scieduled. in purpose of ensuring
the  deficit  from  the limited budget in  1988.           In  relative  to  ISWACO's
request. the Bank was agreeable to amending tke loan agreement by changing the
figure  in  the  'of expenditures to be financed - column in catetory  1(b)  of
paragraph  I  of the Loan Agreement to be 65 . tn place of 45  .  after  detail
review.
3.85     COMPENSATION  ;        In appraisal stage.  compensation scope  for  lend
and property as comparison witk the previous project constructed in Korea
was  determined.    Actually,  as  a  result of site investigation  during  two
years (1979-1988). compensation scope for lend end property was expanded.
Witb   realization  for  compensation  unit  prite  and  the  increase  of  the
inundation area according to installing the power plant at the Reregulotion
Dam. the compensation scope of the project was increased very much.
3.06      THE  RESETTLEMENT SITES          In the appraisal  stage.  the  executing
authorities would make plan to pay removal expenses and subsistence. and to
give the priority for purchase of reclaimed tidal land executed by the
government incluiing land in Yong Son Gang cultivation project to persons
displaced  by  this  Project.    But the resettlement sites  requested  by  the
displaced  persons  in the early coastruction stage which  was  construtted  at
DaeyanY .  Cleongpumg adi Nonsu inelvding seven groups coap.   With resettleumt
sites for the displaced persons. tie scope of the overall compensation was
largely cihaged.



13
3.67    ROAD RELOCATION         RRoai relcation witk a total lngit  ICO km having
bridge  with  a  total  length 1.680 * was proposed  St  the  appraisal  stage.
Is  ths course of fimelizing the detail design,  road relocation with  a  total
longth  297.3  km  having  misatemm bridges witk a total  lesgth  2.728  a  was
determined.
3.0C    RAILRAD RELOCATION           Railroad relocation with o total length 1  Km
having eigit tunnels with a total length 938 * and eleven bridges with a
total length See a was proposed ot the appraisal stage of the project.
In the course of the detail design. railroad relocation with a total length
of 13 km includinl three tunnels with a total length of 1.810 a end six
bridges with a total lentth of 850 n was determined.
REJECT OF TIE BAMK
3.69    ISWACO   received  the  information  from  the  Bonk  with  regard   to
diserseoment rate for the civil works be reverted to 4S X from 65 X. and
reviewed  it.    Tie  result  of above meens the deficit  of  budget  in  +982.
It ISWACO revise overall Project schedule, the completion date should be
delayei for one year at least. it will be acted as a worse factor in repayment
of  the  Bank's  loean and in the  aneagemeat  of  ISWACO.         Tbus.  ISWACO  has
requested to unierstand difficult situation and to keep 65 percent of
disbursement  rate  for  tie civil works by end  of  th.t  fiscal  year.             In
addition to it. ISWACO has expected to be postponded the grace period of Bank's
loan  for two or three years for smeoth repayment with power charge collection,                     FM
Witb respect to the above. the Bank informed ISWACO that it is found that
firstly the ISWACO's propose to postpone the initial repayment date by
extending the grace period would require a change in the basic ttrms of the
loan.    Because  it has been a long standing Bank policy to retain loan  ites"
intact.   The Bank iidn't eccede to this proposal.
3.13     Secondly.   with  respect  to  the  request  for  the  review  of  its
disbursesent  rate  on the civil works.  the Bank informed titt this  has  been
unusual for Bank-assisted project in Korea.  which hes ackievei over the  years
on enviable record of carrying out projects en schedule.           In June. 1983  the
Baok  concurred in en increase in the disbursement rate on this Projeet because
of above rebson.    This inereasse  which the Bank always regarded as temporary.
recognized the financial constraints the government was confronting in mid-1986
due  to a number of factors including rapid price estalation.    The  step  was
quite unusual since the Bank's loan amount is fixed and when project costs
escalate.      The Bank normally decrease rather than increase its  disbursement
rate.    The  Baok  hed  expected that by covering a very  high  proportion  of
project expenditures during tkis prleo of budgetary stringency, the government
would  Increase  its funding significantly in future  years.           Uafertuoetely.
while bdget allocations were increased somewhat in 1982. the emuste allcated
were,  even in nominal terms. only slightly *bhve 19s1 budcet allocations.   In
the course of reviewing it. it was concluded thet ISWACO hove not received tie
priority in the allocation of budgetary fundt the Bank had expectad when the
Bank contracted the loan.



14
Tserefore. the Bank would not be ohia to continue in such manner pest the
sad of 1981 oN any project whore it would re8u;t in exhoustion of Bank fuods
before  projoect  completioa.    The  Bank reconmended thet.  returnint  to  tie
originol  disiersomet parcetage of tho Bank.  the government nst seek  ether
mes$ to overcoe"  the problem caused by budget stringency.
After  IBRD's isfermutis.  with borrowint from tte oil Fund              parties  made
on effort to evercone the problem of slow execution of the r:iject without
delay of the overall sciheule.
REALLOCATION OF THE LOAP9
3.11      As  a  result of a discussion with MOF's  eni ISVACO's  staffs  during
their staying in Waskington D.C about increasing peroeatage of loan portion
of category 1. civil works due to budgetary constraint of government during
a period of rapid price escalation. tke BANK agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
to increase bank's portion of civil works from 45 X to 65 X as a temporary
measure in consideration of government's budget situation in 1988 and hoped
the government would assist ISWACO by larger local fund allocation in 1981
and 1982 in order not to cause delay in reservior impounding and Project
operation.    Bank notified ISWACO that distursement percentage for category 1.
would revert to original percentage of 45 X from Feburusy It. 1982 becouse
Bank thought continuity disbersement of 65 X would lead to being used up of
looi proceeds before completion of project.          On March 19.  1982 EOF asked to
the Bank to have second thought about exchange in the distursement percentage
from 85 X to 45 X for the shortage of government budget and requested that bank
maintain 65 2 withirawal percentage untill end of 1982 and groce period be
extented  2.5 years untill construction Is completed.           On April 6.  1982 the
Dank disagreed to above proposal for the reason of Bank's long standing  policy
to  retain  loan  terms  intr.t  end hoped the  government  more  budget  would
allocated  to the Project.        ISWACO proposed through EDF reallocation of  the
loan proceeds twice on Aprii 23.1984 and March 22.1985 respectively as shown in
the Appendix 6 and once extention of closing date from June 38. 1985 to Dec.
31.  1985.      Each time DAK agreed to ISWACO's proposal.            The disbursement
was completed on January 22. 1986 and the remaining uPdisbursei balance of US S
1.818.842.30 was cancelled by ISWACO reqest.
IMPLEMENTATION OF COVENANTS
3.12    THE POWER TARIFF ;    A cost allocation study hbe  been completed and  a
copy of the results was given to the Bank.          Negotiation with KEPCO and other
beneficiaries of the project about the rates will be charged to them by
ISWACO.    The  detail  status  of  the power  tariff  negotiation  with  KEPCO
shell be described ti the otber peragraph.
3.13    THE DRAW-fOld ZONE ;    The lead in the draw-down zone in tht reservoir
has been acquired by the provinces but will be available for a early season
crop.     Most of the former owners of these land continue to live close to the
reservoir.      Therefore,  the  provincial authorities make a plan to rent  the



15
cultivation rigtts annually to the original owners for a fee equal to 38 X of
the value of productios but met yet be settled.
3.14      0  &  H MANUAL :       The Report en Operation  and  Maintenance  Macnel
( including tie Report ea Reservoir Operation Rule for Production of Noxious
Output ) wtich we made by th ceonsultant. N.K. was submitted to the Bank. &y.Der.
1985 in accordance witk section 4.04 of article 4. the Loan Agreements.
3.15      THE  AUDIT OF PROJECT ACCOUNTS ;         According to tke  Loan  Agreement
( section 5.82 ). ISWACO has maintained seperable accounts for tbe Project and
employei  independent  auditor,  accepted by tie Bonk.  to  audit  the  Project
accounts  annually.       The  report  of audit.  including certified  copies  of
financial statements audited was sent to the Bank within four month of the
close of each financial year.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
IIPLEENTATION
3.16      At appraisal stage.  the project made a plan to te implemented over  a
period  of  six  years.  including  one  year  of  preconstruction  activities.
Construction would begin sbortly after the award of the min civil works
contract.      The construct'en of the dam.  including installstion of  spillway
gates.  would  be  completed by the end of 1984.    By changed due to  detailed
design and further study reflecting economic situations at early construction
stage. main revisions kave been made in dam leigkt and its reservoir capacity.
installed power capaecity Ind number of units. and additional power station to
be  installed at reregulating dam.         In addition to the above chongea of  the
Project features. the Project period was delayed for one year by various
unavoidable reasons as below ;
- Delayed  -comenceent  of Main civil works    Main civil works  which  are
being financed by IBRD was scheduled to be commencei in September. 1978.
However.   Loan  Agreement  with  IBRD  was  made  on  29 March. 1979  and
consequently the conmeneme.tt of main civil works for doa and powereouse
was delayed for 16 months by starting the works on January. 1985.
- Project delay due to increase of project costs ; Because of worsened
internationel  economic  situation and realization of  compensation  price
aid the iscreese of inundation area in accerdeace with installing the
;ewer plant at the Reretulating dam.
The  Project  costs  hes beam largely increased due to the  bigger  retie  than
expected.    As  for above.  tbe overall censtruction schedule of  the  project
was  delayed  for  one year.    Consequently,  excludin'  delayed  comencement
of main civil works, total construction period was 6 years until the work



16
has  completed on schedule in lete 1985 sueessfully.           The comparison of  the
actual and original sebodule descrived in appraisal report shown es Appendix 4.
In summry. the original time schedule described in tie appraisal report was
realistic.
COMPLETED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.17      The  principal features of completed Chungiu Multipurpose Dan  Project
are summerized below and illustrated in Appendix 2 ant 3.           Also. the salient
features of the Project presented in Appendix S.
- Construction of a 97.5 m high and 902.000 cu n of concrete gravity dJa
on the South Han River ;
- Construction of a powerhouse below the dae on the right bank of the
river ;
- Supply  end  installation  of  four  100  MW  units  and   appurtenant
mechanical and electrical equipaents ;
- Supply and election of a 7 Km long. 154 kV doublo - circuit
transnission line ;
- Construction of a Reregulation dan about 23 Ka downstream of the main
dasm
- Re!ocation of oaout 297.3 Km roads and 13 Km of railroad
- Construction of protective dam in the reservoir area to ensure
continued operation of the Dongyang Talc nine
- lmpe.nentation of the resettlenent program including compensation
7.135 families for lond and property. end assistance in their
resettlement ;
- Consulting services for detailed design and supervision of the
Project construction ;
- The services of an independent consulting panel to assist ISWACO in
their review and approval of the consultant's design ;
3.18    THE TREATMENT OF LANDSLIDE ;          Tie landslide treatment on the  right
bonk   of  the  dam  site  was  one  of  the  most  crucial  works  in  Project
implementation.       In 1976.  ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS INC., which undertook the
feasibility study of Chungju Project, was oware of existence of landslide on
right bank.    But. an extent of the landslide was not made clear at that time.
In 1978 and 1979. NIPPON KOEI(NK) and ISWACO in accordance with the Bank's
recommendation carried out intensive field investigations to define the extent
of  landslide and to assess the dam foundation.          The investitation  included
field reconnaissonces by landslide specialists and geologists. seismic wave
exploration,  test edits excavation,  core boring and rock shear  tests.             In
addition. in the course ef determining the landslide extent and the method of
leadslide treatment. naluable suggestions and recoenendatiens were given by the
I 'DRs  Consultiag  Panel especially Mr.J.S.Dodd ( engineering geologist  )  to
ISWACO *ad NK.       The upslepe extent of landslide was defined by interpreting
the eoring logs obtained in upper part of bill between El. 358 m and El. 458 a.
It was concluded that the landslide extent up to E1.400 m.            The slide  mass
was predicted to thicken towards uphill. O m at river shore. 25 m at dam crest



17
level  Gno  40 a at elevation Sf 330 n.         The predicted failure plene  having
diP angle of 20 degree to 30 degree sr 23 degree in evorage wes subparalted to
origtul  grouad surface.          The landslide was clessified into two  different
types of slid, ; reek slide and slump.         Tkus. tke method with entire removal
of reck sliie was selectei in view of paremount importance of the sefety for
dom  and  power  stetion to be located below  tho  slide  areo.             Tie  slump
material upstream of rock slide area was to be loft unexcavated for cost
soving.       To stabilize the slump.  toe loding with excavated rock  neterial
was  considered  nost  effective.         Tberefore.  the toe emannkment  ares  was
selected as manatoary disposal area.         Required volume of the toe  embankment
was approximately 2 million ev a.         Excavation work of rock slide material on
right Wabtment commented in May. 1980 and continued for 23 months until it was
completei  on  March.  1982.        Total excavation volume amounted to  5.538.000
cu M.
3.19      MAIN DAM AND SPILLWAY ;        The Chungiu Dan  is a 97.5 m high and 447 a
long concrete gravity dea bhving its crest level of El. 147.5 m and creating
a  2.756  million cu * reservoir.         Tbe upstream face is vertical  above  El.
114.5 * and hea slopes of I on 0.17 betwten El. 11°.S a and El. 84.5 a and of
1  on 0.3 below El.  84.5 m.        Tho downstream fac. ihs single slope of  1- on
0.75.      The spillway ias six span of 15.5 m.   A stilling basin at the toe of
the  dam weuld dissipate the energy of the spillway discharge.    A 8.5 a  wide
service  bridge  is  provided  aloag  the top  of  the  Dam.    Dam  foundation
excovation was commenced early Maerc. 1981 at top portion of left abutment
on  which  bunker line be constructei and completed in  March.  1982  excavated
volume was approximately 990.863  cu a in total.   Concrete placement of doa  and
spillway was commenced in June. 1981 and finalized on October 27. 1984 just
before the scheduled impounding date of Nonvember 1. 1984.    Finally total doa
concrete volume is about 902.000 cu * including penstock encosement.
3.26    DIVERSION TUNNELS AND COFFERDAMS ;          Selected design flood  for river
diversion  scheme is 3.800  cu a/s.        This flood corresponds to peak discharge
of the dry season flood ( April flood ) having occurrence probablity of 5 X
(  once  in 20 years ).        In addition.  a 25-year probable wet  season  flood
( 10.503 cu m/s ) was taken into consideration in scheduling the concrete
placement for. main das end designing the cofferdams. iiversion tunneis and
other  important construction facilities.         The tunnel capacitv  is  governed
by  reservoir  pool  level ponded during flood.          Higher  cofferdam  requires
smaller  diversion tunnel.        As a result.  two 12 a  diameter  concrete-lined
circular tunnels about 626 s.  781 m each in length satisfiei this requirement.
Tie  combitionation  of the two 12 m diameter tunnels and E1.85.5  a  cofferdam
was  finally  adopted  for construction.         The tunnel elevation  was  set  to
El. 68 = at upstream end and to El. 63 a at downstream end in its bottom level.
The upstream bottom level is nearly equal to the river channel bottom level.
Tie  deowstream  bottom  level is a few meters lower than  the  river  channel.
Complete circular section of the tunnel adopted in tenier design was modified
to bottom-flat circular section at the final construction design in order to
facilitate  concrete  placing  in tunnel invert.          Length  of  plug  concrete
required in respect of sliding due to reservoir water pressure is 16.5 n.
This length is elongated for allowance to prevent piping in surrounding rock.



18
Por ceastrectien of tausel lining.  a 40 a long plug was adopted.    Tie leugth
is eqwiv nleot to 58 S of m*xim_m active water head operation of dam.
The plug leagth *s further reviewed shortly befere the diversion closure
because the reck sureunding tie plug Portioe escountered during tunnel
ex*eaetiem  was joite massive Not cesteiming pre4dmineat rock  oitts and  ees.
Such good teoloty needed leSs allowance for resisting against piping.
Finelly. the plug conerete lengtL was shortened to 25 a which corresponds to 36
X  of the maximum active water head.         This shortening contributed to  reduce
concrete volume and to speed up the concrete placing which had to be completed
before freezing water.        Diversion of the river was carried out on Oetoter 7.
1981.     Tbe  tunnels  was  closed by inlet gates  on  November  1.  1984  for
permanent impounding ai the reservoir.
3.21     POWER FACILITIES ;        The powerhouse is located on right bank  130  m
downstream  from the dam axis.         The power station Is composed of powerhouse. 
tailboy  and outdoor switchyard.         Generating capacity of the  Chungju  power
station  No.l  is 460 MW compris-n; four units of 100 M  plants.            The  lower
station is designed as peek laed station linked with the notion-wide power
grid of the Korea Electric Power Coporation (KEPCO ).           The envisaged peeking
hour is 2.8 hrs a day and plant factor is approximately 10 X.            Annual energy
output  of the power station is 765 GWh in average.           The powerhouse building
is contestlonal reinforced concreete structure built en sowed Rock.
The building is approximately 169 a long. 44 m wide onu 51 m high above its
bottom  El.  51.5 *.         Penstock diameter is determibei to be 6.5 a which  is
most advantageous in tombined cost for penstock. intake anid generator.
Removable  trashrack Is installed at entrance of esoc  intake it is dividei into
two  by the center pier.        Their clear span is 8.5 a each and beight is 14  a
to close end deweter the water passege temporarily for repairing intake gate
and its guide frame. stoplog slot is Provided between the trashrack and gate
at  location just upstream of dam axis.    The slot is also diviied into two ty
center pier and extended up to the top of dam one set of stoplog consisting of
4 panels ( two panels for each divided slot ) is provided to close any one of
4  intakes.      Each  panel  is 15.1 a wide by 4.86    high.    Intake  gate  is
provided for each intake between intake bell-moutb and steel penstock at 11.5 a
downstream of dam axis.  and the gote is 6.5 a wide and 6.5 n high.    The gate
is operated with iniepeadent hoist installed at El. 153.3 m.
Outdoor switchyard is located between the power house building and the dam on
El.  83.5 m ground level.    Size of the switchyard is approximately 120 m long
by  60  a wide including transformer decks.    The switchyard is  comprised  of
154 kV switchyard for powerstation No.1 and 66 kV yard for receiving the power
from power station No.2 which necessary steel towers are 32 in numbers.
3.22    ROAD  4'"D RAIL RELOCATION :        Road relocation with  total  length  of
297.3  Km because of the load inuesited by the construction of Chuagju  Project
was  rolocated.    Tie number of 17 rodo$ relocated National reads.  Provincial
reads iseluding Coustry roads.    The road relocation was commenced eo Juse  3.
1982 end completed on  June. 1985.  sucessfully.          Railrood relocation with a
total leanth 13 km was reiocated and its length was included three tunnels with
a total lengtb of 1.810 a and six bridges with a total length of 850 M.             The



19
rtilread relocation was started in December 4. 1982 and finalized in December
31. 1985.
3.23   PROTECTIVE WORKS IN RESERVOIR ;    In  rder te protect the DentYong Talc
mine from innuonetion by the construction of tie ProJect was constructed the
water retaining Ido having 185 a crest length ond 36.5 * height with El. 146.8
B.    The water retaining dam of Dongyang Talc *ine construoted for the purpose
of retaining the tailings from the mine end preventing the mine wastes from
polluting the reservoir was commencei on Deceober 29. 1983 and completed on
December 31. 1984.    In the other hand this report is not included with regard
to the Sunt Sin cement plant because the protective countermeasure for esment
plant was done by the owner of plant with private cost.
About 4 Ka downstream of the main doa. existing Yongkyo irrigation pumping
station located.    After completion of the dam which would release cold water.
When this cold weter irrigate to a paddy land. it would be decreasing the
agricultural  production.        Therefore.  in  order to prevent the  cold  water
domge for the crop. a pond having large surface area with shellow dopth for
the purpose of warning the cold water was constructed and also the pumping
statios  was  relocated.       This protective countseasure was commencei  on  29
October 1985 ani completed on 30 June 1986.
3.24   REREGULATION DAN ;  The Rereguletion dan is a 19 a high and 480.6 a long
ceacrete gravity doa bhving its crest level of El. 79.8 m and creating a 29.2
million eu a reservoir.    The river iiversion schema  is seleeted a combination
of Slurry Trench cutoff and cellular cofferida reducing the expensive steel
sbeet piles and facilitating the installation and removal of the cofferdem.
The spillway structure consists of gated - overflow weir. apron for flood
spillway  end  stilling basin for service spillway.    The weir is  a  concrete
structure founded on reck at El. 49.8 m for service spillway end El. 51.8 m
for  flood  spillway.    The overflow area is divided into 2 bays  for  service
spillway eni 18 bays for flood spillway and each bay is provided with 15 a
wide and 7.7 * high roller gates.    The gate hoists are installei on the hoist
decks at El. 81.0 m. monorail hoist is provided for operating stoplogs.
The crest shape of the weir is determined the under nappe sbope(profile) using
the method of US 8ureau of Reclametion. Power station with generating capacity
of 12.300 kw comprising two units 6.800 kw unit is located on the left bank and
consisted  of  intake,  powerhouse  and  toilrtce.          The  generating power is
transmitted to power station No. I tbrough the 66 kV transmission line.
The commencement ceremony of construction of R/R Dam was beld on September
9.  1982.       Since.  the   Project took 2 years ani 18 months by the time  of
the  completion ceremony held on September 2.  1985.          Annuol  energy  output
of the power station No. 2 is 79.5 million KWh in average.
I



20
D. PROCUREMENT
3.25     CIVIL  IRI( CONTRACTS            Tke ProJect inowlved  tkree  civil  work
contrects which were aweried by International Competitive Bidding in following
the Beank's guidelines on procurexent mentioned below
- Civil   works  for  Ckungju  den  and  power  station  No.1 incluiing
installation of gates & penstocks ( 79/C/g91 ).
- Civil works for Reretulotion dam end power station No.2 including
metal works for gates ( 82/C/082 ).
- Civil works for Jungeng railroad line ( Dodem - Jusnyeong )
relocation ( 82/R/l01 ).
Six firms including one foreign firm were prequalified to lid for the
construction of the Main dm eand No. I power bouse.    However. only four firms
were selected as the lualified tenderer among applicants who submlited their
prequalification documents end submitted their tender documents except a
foreign  firs.      The  contract  was awarded to  the  lowest  bidder.  Hyundai
Construction  Co..  on  18  December 1979.    The Value of  this  contract  was
5 73.522 million ( US S 82.4 millio8 equivalent ) excluding value addei tax.
Besiies.  five  firms  from  local  :irms were  prequelified  to  bid  for  the
construction  of  the Reretulation dam and No.2 power house.          Three of  them
submitted the alternative tender.  which was reviewei by the  ISWACO.           Thus.
tie  contract was awardei to the lowest bidder.  Hydndai Construction  Co..  as
accept  of  alternative  tenderer  on 28 August  1982.          The  value  *f  this
contract was 5 13.936 million ( US S 12.25 million equivalent ) excluding value
added  tax.      The  contrector started tbe construction of the dam  and  power
house  No.1 en 23 December 1979.        The firm was able to complete the works on
schedule under various difficult circumstances such as flood overtopping in
late August 1982 and the total construction period of Main doa and power house
No.1  took  B years by the time of the completion.         The construction of  the
Reretulation dam and power house No.2 was commenced on 9 Septenmer 1982.
The contractor was able to carry out the works on schedule by recovering the
difficult conditions such as a flood about 5.800 cu */s on 2 September 1984 and
the construction period took 3 years until it was completed on 38 September
1985.     The relocation of Jungang railroad line ( Dodam - Jugnyeong ) carried
out ty the Railroad Construction Bureau.  Korea National Railrood.            In  the
course of the construction. the contractor carrid out the works smoothly.
3.26    EMUIPMENT  CONTRACTS  ;         There  were  made  several  contracts  for
generating facilities end construction equipments.         Details of the contracts
including  the civil works ceontracts are summarized in Appendix 7 and 8.    The
major items procured for the generating equipment and construction equipment
followed by International Competitive Bidding according to the IBRD ani OECF
procurement  guideline.        Nine  firms  including  five  foreign  firms  ware
prequalified to bid for the contract of turbines and mechanical equipment in
power  station  No.1  ( 79/4/Ill) and submittei  their  bid  documents.           The



21
contract was awarded to the lowest bidder. joint venture with Deewoo Heavy led.
and Toshiba Corp..  on 13 March 19J9.         And. five firms ineluding four joint-
venture were prequalified to bid for the contract of generators and electrical
equipments  in power station No.1 ( 79/E/U1 ).           But.  four firms  including
three  joint  - venture submitted tteir bid  documents.           The  contracts  was
awarded to the lowest bidder. Joint-vesture with Daewoe Heovy Ind. and Toshiba
Corp..  on 13 March 1980.        Also the other contracts progressed favorably and
the performance ability of the contractors ani suppliers was fully satisfactory.
Therefore. there were not differculties in following the Bank's guidelines on
procurement and no ploblems occured during tke Project implementation related
to procurement and suppliers, in retrospet.
E. COSTS
3.27      ACTUAL  PROJECT  COSTS         The estimated  cost  of  the  Project  at
appraisal was US S 510i. million, including a foreign exchonge cost of
US  S  236.8  million.    The  foreign  exchange cost was  for  the  import  of
construction  equipments.  mterials and mchinery.  including  the  generating
equipment. and the provision of the consultant's services and the local cost
financing.    The total actual cost of completion of the Project was US 8 621.9
million. which was about 22 percent above the appraisal estimate.
Detail of the Project actual costs are presented in Appendix 10. summerized
In Appendix 9 and annual expenditure of the Project costs shown in Appendix 11.
3.28    COMPARISON OF PROJECT COSTS ;    The principle reasons for the  Project
cost diffferonce between the appraisal cost estimates and the actual costs are
as follows
1.    The cost of the river diversion for the Reregulation Dam was  reduced
due to selection of alternative. Slurry Trench Cutoff method instesd of
using the expensive steel sheet piles. ( Item A.5 in Appendix 12 )
2.    Relocation of roads and construction of resettlement sites ( Item A.6
;n Appendix 12 )
- The costs of road relocation were increased for the following
reasons ;
Design criteria improved.
Addition of asphalt pavement works for 13 Km.
The  length  of  relocation wes increasei ( from 19 Km to  297
Km ).
- Tie costs of railroad relocation was increased for tke following
reasons ;
* Design criteria improved.



22
. Aidition of two new stations.
. The length of relocation was increased ( from 9 Ka to 13 Ku).
- Addition of tonstruction of resettlement site such as Denyong.
Cbe.mgpmg. Hexsu. end seven group coops for the displeced persons
from immudatiem area.
3.   Cost savings of the  powerhouse equipment end gates etc.  ( Item 8 & C
in Appendix 12 ) were due to the lowest bidding by International
Competative Bidding in following the OECFPs guidelines on procurement.
4.   The cost of the  compensation ( Item E in Appendix 12 ) increesed  the
following reesons ;
- Quantity increase.
- Realization of compensation price for inundation area.
- Addition of inundation area in Reregslation reservoir.
- Increasing the protection cost for Dontyang Tale mine.
- Addition of indirect conginsation.
- Relocation and prevention countaeasure of cold water demage -for
Yongkyo irrigation pumping station at just downstream of saindam.
5.   The  east of  tie engineering and administration ( Item C in  Appendix
12 ) increased for the following reasons ;
- Addition of interest for the IBRD and OECF loan during the
construction period.
- Addition of interest for the Oil fund and the KDB fund which was
borrowed from the local bank for filling up the shortage of budget.
- Addition of taxes and duties. custom charges. etc. for the imported
equipments and materials.
3.29      THE  OVERRUN1Ei  WOST ;    It was hard to secure  an  other  financial
source  for  the overruned cost during the  construction  period.    Thus.  the
overall construct..a scheiule of the Project was expected delay for one year
( completed in 1986 ).        But. in the course of reviewing the overall sehedule
of the Project in late 1983. ISWACO and Government had determined to make
vorile of the Oil fund and the KDB fund for the overcome of expected delay due
to the shortage of budget.        Finally.  Project execution was back on schedule
with  targeted  completion  for  1985.           Thus.  the  Project  bas  completed
successfully on schule in late 1985.



23
F.   DISBURSIEENTS
3.38    THE  IBRD LOA  :        The approved IBRD loan aemunt of US S 125  million
would m*ke plan to finance 53 S of the foreign exchange requirement of US
S  236 million.       The loIn of US S 125 million was for the provision  of  the
consultant's services. the supply of equipments and materials. and local cost
financing  for the civil works.    The finel disbursement closed on January 22.
1986. amount of US 3 123.99 million which represented 99 percent taginzt the
approved amount of the loan.   Details disbursement of the IBRD Loan sumirized
in Appendix 13.       The principal reasons for tie difference between the actuol
disbursements and the approved loan are as follows ;
1. The increase of the disbursementz in the civil works category was
iue to following reason ( Item I in Appendix 13 ).
- The disbursement rate of the loan for local cost financing chinged
from 45 % to 65 S during the period of 1988 throuth 1981.
- The actual volume of lanislide treatment of right abutment of the
main dAm increased ( from 5.809.800 cu a to 5.538.866 cu m )
- The actual escalation rate was bigher then anticipeted escalation
rate.
2. Savings of the actual cost were due to the lowest bidding by the
International Compertitive Bidding of the equipments and materials
followed to IBRD procurement guideline ( Item 2 in Appendix 13 ).
3. The unallocatei category usei for local cost financing of the civil
works ( Ites 4 Appendix 13 ).
On the besis of the revised allocation, the proceeds of the loan was disbursed
from 1979 through 1986.    Tie annual disbursement is shown in Appendix 14.
There was no serious delay in the disbursement proceeds of the loan end about
99  percent  of  the approvei loan was disbursed.           However.  to  ensure  the
deficit of local financing budget for the civil works in 1980. the ISWACO
proposed  early withdrawal of proceeds of the Bank's loan.    The proposal  was
approved by the Bank end the disbursements made in 1979 for the civil work.
Besiies. the closing date was extendei from 38 June 1985 to 31 December 1985.
Because some appurtenent works such As accommodation facilities and other
minor works for effective maintenance and management of the dam needed some
more extended period.    Therefore.  the disbursement in 1986 was for the costs
of its.      In the course of this Project. generally. the original disbursement
schedule wes realistic *.d the differences betwees the sceduile and actual
disbursement was relatively SuaIl.
3.31    THE  oECF LOAN ; An DEC? loan amount of Yen 14.888 million ( US  S  78
million equipvalent ) would finance 33 X of the foreign exchange requirement.
The approved loan was for the provision of the consultants services. the supply



24
of generating equipments. tie local cost financing of tie civil works and metal
works.       The final disbursement of the GECF loean closed en February 4. 19860
was You 13.213 Milliee ( US S 66 million oquiveleat ). whick represeted 94
rereent  ageinst tie approved loan soummrized in Appeadix lS.    Tie  principal
reasons fet tie difference between tie actual disbursements and tie approved
loan ese as follws ;
1.   Savings  of tUe actual  cost  were  due to  ti.  lowest  bidding  bv
Internetional   Competitive   Bidding  of   generating   equipments   and
construction equiPments followei to OECF procurement Guideline ( Item
1. A) and C) in Appendix 15 ).
2.   Tie  increase of  the disbursement in tie metal work was due to  the
additional flood forecast telemetering system fer effective operation
and maintenance of tke flood forecasting facilities ( Item 1. B) in
Appendix 15 )
3.   Tie increase of  tie disbursement in tie eanineering service (  Item
1. D) in Appendix 15 ) was due to the additional engineering services for
the additional construction supervision according to tie extension of the
Chungju Project perioi and addition of power station No.2 in Reregulation
dam.
Thus. the proceeds of tie loan were disbursed from 1978 through 1986.
There was no serious delays and ploblems in tie course of disbursement of the
loan.
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. COST ALLOCATION
4.01      There are several way of cost allocotion metbod with some  merit  and
demerit  each  other.        Here.  cost allocation method of Chuntju Project  is
applied  to  serable  costs - remaining benefits metbod  in  accordance  witb
stipulation in secoad article of eriinence relating to Specific Multipurpose
bas  Law in Keres.    The basic dota necessitate for makint tie cost allocation
are as follows 
1.   Firstly. tie  crest elevation fer tie single purpose. compound ea4
multipurpose  dams  determined from the needed mognitude  of  reservoir
capacity in order to provide the necessary effects.



2.   The  construetion costs for  the single. compound end multipurpose
des are calculated em tse basis of stipulation in seventh erticle of
erdisoeco relating to Specific Multipurpose Dan Law.
3.   Tie  tassel equvelent benefits for tie justifiable investnent cost
are based eo  es isterest rate of 1o1 end In  emortizetion period of 56
years.      The result of Capital Recovery Factor ( CRf ) is  1.1338591.
to  be  multiplied to the construction Costs.            The Interest  During
Construction ( [DC ) for the Project is applied to en actual interest
rete of 16 %.
4.   The  annual  operation.  maintenance  and  replacement  costs  are
calculated on the basis of comparative ani review against the existing
dams.
5.   The  seperable cost for a given purpose is obtained by suttracting
the cost of the compound - purpose project. without that purpose from
the cost of the multi - purpose priject which including *11 functions.
6.    Exclusively  using  facility cost are defined as the  costs  -tkat
serve only one purpese such as the cost of spillway gates eni
auxilieries for flood control.
7.   Appeniix 16 indicates a sumery of alternative construction costs.
4.82       The basic principles of cost allocation of the Chungju Project are as
follows:
I.   All the  project cost for the project is allocated  justifiably to
each purpose.
2.   Exclusive  cost  for  only one purpose such as seperable  cost  or
exclusively using facility cost is allocatod wbole amount to that
purpose end it is least allocated cost to that purpose.
3.   Maximum  allocated cost to each purpose is justifiable  investment
equvialent   to   it's  own  benefit  or  not  more  then   alternative
construction  cost for it's own  purpose.          Basically.  smeller  cost
among the analysed amount according to two way mentioned above is
applied.
4.   Appendix  17  indicates  a cost allocation prepared  by  seperable
costs - remaining benefits method.
Thus.  according  to   mtheo matiooed above.  final cost allecatios  for  the
Chuagju Project is prepred.         Aptenoix 18 represents a final cost alltoation
for the Chngiju Project.        Os  Aicust 21.  1986  ISWACO requested te the  MC
to  approve  the  cost allocation for the  Project.           Finally.  NBC  approved
ISWACO's requested cost allocation on 7 October 1986.



26
B. POWER TARIFFS
4.03     The  study ot coet ellocatiss for tbe Chvngju Project was  started  in
December 1984 by the Korer lIdustrial Development Institute ( KID ) uader the
contract between ISWACO and KID.       Soon after the coomerciel power generation
was started in Mey 1985. ISWACO proposed tle following power tariffs to the
KEPCO based on an interim report of cost allocation prepared by KID.
- Power tariff per Khi                 : W 45.44
- Shere of power generation division : 67.74 X
- Rate of return                          . 7.  w
- Estimate of net fixed assets           As of Dec. 31. 1984
4.04     It  was  agreed between ISWACO end KEPCO in March 198S that 5.8  X  of
interest rate should be epplied to ISWACO invested net fixed assets for the
purpose  of calculating the rete of return.         A temportry tariff of 9  33.04
per KWk was alse agreed In December 1985 on the condition that the differenee
should  be settled retroactively after the final agreement on the power  tariff
is reached.
4.35     Based  upon  KID's final report on cost  allocation.  ISWACO  proposed
following new power tariffs in April 1986.
- Power tariff per KWh                 :W 45.51
- Shere of power generation division :65.87 X
- Rate of return                       :   6.6 2
- Estimate of net fixed assets           As of Dec. 31. 1935
4.06    In accordance with Akticle 8.2 of Industrial Sites and Water  Resources
Development Promotion Law. ISWACO submitted on application to the Ministry of
Construction ( HOC ) for approvel of completion of the Chungju Dam in May 1986.
Subsequently, WOC approved it and the following was published in the Official
Gazette on Octerber 7. 1986 ;
- Owners of the Project facilities
.Plood control division       The Government of the Republic
.Power end Water division . [SWACO
- Cost allocation of the Project
.Plood control division         16.85 X
. Irrigation division           2.89 X
.   & I water divisieo        14.39 %
Power diviie               : 65.87 %
4.07     Aftir  two years of *agetatieons.  agreement he$ been reached  er  the
pewer tariffs cai the contract is expected to be signed around bec. 18. 1986 as
follows



- Power tariff per KWh                  : 8 41.18
- Shere of power generatieo  divisien : 8l.58 X
- Rate of return                            6.l X
- Estimate of not fixed esset           : As of June 30. 1985
4.68     Taking iste account tUe procedures for coaformaties es the contract by
the Ministry of Energy and Resources. the new power tariffs will be finalized
around December 28. 1986.
C. ARRANGEMENTS FOR COMPENSATION FOR WATER SUPPLY AND FLOOD CONTROL
4.69    IRRIGATION WATER ;    Concerned government authorities are reviewiag on
the  irrigation  water clarges and one posihility is that the maintenence  cost
for the relatei facilities will be borne by the government.    In that case the
whole tbere of cost allocated to irrigation division skould be deducted from
ISWACO's capital.
4.16     M & I WATER         Tie Ministry of Construction is contemplating oan the
M & I water charges.       It seems most likely that M & I water cbarges will  be
set at 9 6 per cubic meter for dams in Korea. whith is satisfaetory to ISWACO.
Tie final decision will be mdei in December 198f.
4.11     FLUOD  CONTROL ;       Althouugh tke tconomic benefits of flood  control
woeid be significant,  tbere is no wey in whicb direct charges could be imposed
to  recapture these benefits.       A major pert of the project's flood  benefits
arise from elimination of flood damage.        Tbis. together with more productive
land use in the flooi plains, will increase revenues to the Government and
local  outborities.   ani  reduce  Government  outlays  for  repair  of  public
facilities and flood relief programs.        However,  such financial benefits  to
the Government have not been quantified since they cannot be estimated with any
accuracy.      Thus.  the  whole  share of cost allocated to flood  control  was
invested as equity contribution to the Project by the Government.



D.  ENERGY SALES TO DATE
4.12    The Ckhugiw pewer statica Me. I eni  No. 2 were commenced on comerciel
operetioe of eoah units are as follows ;
Chuagju power station No. I ( at Main dam ) :
unit No. 4      :  May  15. 1985
unit No. 3      :  May  28. 1985
unit No. I & 2    Jun. 14. 1985
Cbungju power station No. 2 ( at Reregulation dar );
unit No. 2      :  Jul.  1. 1985
unit No. 1      : Sept. 2. 1985
The  power  generated is supplied to the KEPCO grid through the Chuntju 154  kV
transmission line  which  forms part of the Project.          The station is kowever
opertetd and meinteined by ISWACO and power generated is sold in bulk to the
KEPCO.      The montily actual gross energy generation auxiliary consumption end
net energy supplied to the KEOCO system by Chungju power plant. sinei its
cemmissieuing.  are  given in Appendix 19.         The net energy  supplied  during
the period Mey. 1985 - Oct. 1988 was lower than the estimate of 844.1 sillion
KWh  annual energy generation.        The lower energy generation.  as comparei to
the  projections  made in original study is attributable to the  low  reservoir
lerels.      In  order  to  derive the energy and power  benefits  as  enviseged
originally. the reservoir levels need to be built up by economizing the
releases whenever conditions permit.
5. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. CHANGES OF THE ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
5.01      lpDoite tho im#ertaet rele of Government Invested Enterprises ( CtEs )
in  tho  national  ecemom.  their miagerial efficiency has not  *t*o  up  the
expectod level.      Te feto r management system was based on the Gevormest  -
Invested Enterprise Administration Act and Government - Invested Budget end
Account  Act.      These Acts provided government agencies with many reasons  to
intervene in the operation of GlEs. which undercut manageriLl efficiency.



29
perticulery io terns of  oraid tochsologicel dvelopmet
Aceordingly. the .rverasoat enectod tie Government - Intostei Enterprise
Moeagameut Act so Dec. 31. 1983. is erier to substantially reform the
mneagesent  structure ead supervisory system of CIE9.          Tie new Act is  aimed
at  reducing  goverment  imtarve.tiea by s;ablishiog a  goaleriented  system.
This system foeeses er eahenctig the quality while reiueing the quentity of
goverament  interventioe.       The  Act  is timed  at  strengthening  menegeoent
eatomony to create conditions in which GIE *anagers con concentrate their
efforts on achieving *enogne.et objectives.   In keeping with the strengthening
of  manetement  autonomy.   a  performance  evaluation  system  hes  also  been
introduced so as to hold manalers accountable for their own performences.
Management Organization and Perosenel Management he$ been chenged as the
following ;
- A  two  - tier   anoagement organization has  been  introduced.          The
Board of Directors may now approve GIE budgets end major policy
objectives.   formerly   approved   by   the   competent   ministries.
The presidents of GlEs *re in charge of implementation of the
decision.
- To prev,nt possible intervention irto executive ectivities by the
Board. the ebeirmen of the board and directors of each GIE are non -
permoemnt.
- Related public officials of the competent ministries end Excutive
secretary   of   the  Government  - Invested   Enterprise   Management
Evaluation Council have seats in the Boards of Directors.
- The President of eae CIE appoints his executive staff autonomously.
from -aong existing e-ployees.
- The term of office of executive staff members is three years.
However, tiey can be dismissed if their management performence is
poor.
B. PRIORITY OF THE ORGANIZATION
5.82       The  Industrial  Sites end Water  Resources  Development  Corporation
(ISIACO). a government ewei corporation, would be responsible for project
i.plemamtatioa.       ISWACO was established on February 1.  1974 to (a)  promote
aid develop industrial sites for heavy and chemical industries adt (b) develor
water resoeerces for irrigation. flood control. electric power generealon.
industrial  eni municipal water supply.         ISWACO's predecessor was the  &Orea
later Resources Development Corporation (KORDC) which was established on
November 1.  1967 and dissolved on ISIACO's creation.         ISWACO hed planned and



30
constructed five industrial esotes. three shipyards. and four multipurpose
dar.      Two  nw towns.  9no estuorY barrage end three multipurpose dons  are
presently under ceustruction.
5.03     Tie wain function eo  ISWACO hts not been chanted esiee 1978.  but  the
prierity of tk. projects has leen changed from industriel sites develop.emt
to   water  resources  development  proJects.           ISWACO  has   been   largest
organizetion in the republic of Korea carrying out water resources development
projects.
C. MAJOR IMPROVEMENT OF THE ORGANIZATION
5.04    BUDGET MANAGEMENT
- Management of the budget has been transformed into Management- by
Objective ( MBO ) 3yste-.
- The presiients has been empowered to formulate his compmny's budget
autononmusly. pursuant to the mnangement objectives and tie common
budget guidelines.
5.85    MATERIAL PROCUREMENT AND ENGINEERING CONTRACTS
- The rtigt of self - refulation concerning material procurement and
engineering contracts hao been given to the president.
- The   president  way  also  procure  materials  and  make  engineerinig
contracts through the Office of Supply if he wishes to do so.
5.86    AUDIT AND BUSINESS SUPERVISION ;
- Outside audits have been unified into the audit of the Board of Audit
end Inspection.
- Inefficient and overlapping business supervision hove also been
reduced.
S.67    POST EVALUATION SYSTEM
- The Go 'ernent - Invested Enterprise Management Eveluation Council has
been established in tbe Ecosomic Plunning Boeri.          It is composed of
the Minister of EPS. the Ministers of the competent ministries end
selected  sme  - govrrnmet mambers.        The Minister of EP5 holds  the
pesitie   of  ch4irms.       The m.ijr tfction of the  council  is  to
establish besic management policy, formulate comeon budget guidelines.
evaluate umnagement performance. end coordinate government support
programs related to GlEs.



31
- The Minister of EPB may establish tte Government - Invested Enterprise
Manegement Evaluetion Task Force. which may include relevant experts
such ts university prefessers and public accounteets. to develop
objective nethois for pnreerm_ce eveluation.
- Upon completion of performance evaluation. if tbere are any problems.
the Minister of EPB my require the competent Minister to rectify tte
problems and submit recommendations te tie President of the Republic
of Korea concerning the dismissal of officers.
D. THE GROWTH OF ISWACO
5.8    The increese of the employees of ISWACO is outstanding since appraisal.
The personnel of the main office has been increased up to 687 from 400 and that
of the breanch offices has been increased up to 975 from 48U.         ISWACO has  15
brench offices in i978. but it hes been increased up to 21.
The branch offices are as the followiag ;
- Multi - Purpose Dom Construction Office :   3
- Estuary Barrage Construction Office :           1
- Multi - Purpose Dam Operation Office ;         6
- Water - Supply Facility Operation Office :  8
- New - Town Construction Office ;               2
- Seoul Liasion Office :                          I
The organization of ISWACO illustrated in Appendix 20.
The authorized capital of ISWACO has been increased up to I trillion Won from
208 thousand million Won since appraisal.
5.89     ISWACO's chief sources of funds are periodic capital subscriptions  by
the government. loans from KDB, foreign loans and revenues from its operation.
Construction of industrial sites is financed partly from the Government's
contribution  towards  capital  and  by  long-term  loans  from  KDB  ;   after
completion.  these industrial sites togfther with related loan obligations  are
sold   to  users  at  a  price  marginally  above  cost.           Multipurpose  dam
construction is financed mainly by the Government's capital contribution and
foreign loans.      The Soyanggeng Dam.  the Andong Dam and Doaechong Dam,  owned
and operated by ISWACO. provide ISWACO revenues from the sale of energy to
KEPCO.     The revenues from this energy.  determined by contract between KEPCO
end ISWACD, cover operating and maintenence costs. and provide a rate of return
on a rate base which includes revalued essets ani working capitol allocated to
power.    This return Is designed to cover debt service assigned to the dams.
ISIACO receive revenue en the water supplied from its dams.



32
5.18     As of December 31.  1977. ISWACO bea  net assets of 9 124.4 billion and
as of December 31. 1985. bed net assets of about I 1395.3 billion as sum8irized
below
Dec. 31. 1977    Dec. 31. 1985
Net current assets  ( I bill. )              4.23             196.43
Net fixed   assets  ( I bill. )            120.17           1.198.81
Net total   ossets  ( 9 bill. )            124.43           1.395.01
Represented by
Long  term  debt    ( V bill. )             59.07            516.67
Equity               ( I bill. )            65.33            878.34
Assets  are  revalued  in accordance with the Assets Appraisal  Law  of  Korea.
ISWACO's liquidity position is food.  current ratio of 1.34 in 1977 and 1.21 in
1985  ere adequate and a Debt/Equity ratio of 47/S3 in 1977 and 37/63 in  1985.
this provide the capacity for additional borrowing                                                     r
6. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
6.P'   1  quantifying the Project's benefits. ecocomic values for the economic
eevntuation were assigned to the water. the flood control and electrical
energy supplied by the Project.    Where. the econeoic values can't be aeasured
directly.  such  as  in  the case of energy  and  municipal  water.           It  was
approximated by the conception of alternatives in accordance with the related
stipulation  and by the datas or the assumptions realized.          For  power.  the
construction  cost of a thermal plant as alternative to Chungju was applied  to
power  benefits.      For  M  &  I water.  the economic  value  is  measured  by
multiplying  water  price  per  cubic  meter to N  &  I  water  demand.           For
irritation water. the economdc value is estimated in terms of incremental crop
production and incremental areas due to Cbungju.    Flood control benefits have
been quantified in terms of reduced damage due to reduced flood risks.
Thus. taking into consideration on the commencing dote of commerc2il operation
in power plant No. 1. the basic date of economic reevaluation to estimnte the
benefits of eack purpose for the Chungju Project was taken on 33 June 1985
( exchenge rate : US 3 1.00 - V 876.06 ).
For the purpose of tke ex - post analysis for the economic justification. the
economic value to express in constant prices of a given year ( 1979 ) was
exchonged by using the G.N.P.  deflator.        The costs and the benefits on each
purpose were estimated as follows.



33
8.62      THE  COSTS ;         The costs used for the  economic  reevaluation.  wee
adjusted ty used the G.N.P. deflater wkich was based on major indieators
(  established by E.P.B.  ).         Becsse it is necessary to convert the  acteal
eost described in Appendix 11 to a given base yeer, 1979 . to eliminate the
effect  of  inflation.          Thus.  tie  costs  and benefits  for  the  esesemic
reevaluation were expressed in constant prices of a given yeer. 1979.
Where. financial charges end accounting items. such as interest end handling
charge of imported good. were excluded from the actual cost.    The differences
of  the capital were already explained in section 3.28.             The  operation  and
maintenance cost were assessed as compared to the organization. the nuober of
persons,  the yearly expenditures of the existing project.              The  replacement
cost  in accordance with the standard of U.S.B.R.  as presented in Appendix  21
was estimated.       This. the annual operation, maintenance and replacement cost
are taken as US S 4.38 million.
6.03    POWER BENEFITS ;    The power benefits were estimated on the basis of a
tsermal plant as alternative to Chuntiu in accordance with the stipulotion in
eighth article in the erdinence relating to Specific Multi - purpose Doa _LAw
Basic principle for obtaining the alternative thermal facility cost per kW was
applied to that established by KEPCO and by WASP ( Wien Automatic System
Planning ).    Tius. basic standard to obtain power benefit is as follows
- Alternative therml :
Power plant No. I   ;   Bunker C oil
Power plant No. 2          Soft coal
Increased electric power of the Palidang plant  ;  Bunker C oil
- The alternative thermal facility cost per kW
Bunker C oil           ;   US 3 588 per kW
Soft coal                  US 3 884 per kW
- Dependable power             352.3 MW
Power plant No. I   ;  345.6 W
Power plant No. 2   ;    6.7 MW
- Tie annual average energy output  : 882.8 GNX
Power plant No. I   ;  764.6 GWh
Power plant No. 2   ;   79.5 Glk
Increase of Paldeng        38.7 GWk
- Fixed cost ratio
Bunker C oil           ;  13.64 X
Soft coal              ;  14.87 S
- kW value oajustment factor
Bunker C oil           ;  1.28168
Soft coal                  1.25515
- kWh value adjustment factor:
Bunker C oil           ;  1.1531
Soft coal              ;  1.33691
- Fuel cests:
Bunker C oil (surfur 4 X) : t 159.139 per liter
Soft coal                    ;  7  41.698 per ton



34
- Fuel coasumptioe  amount
lsaker C oil          ;  0.2285 liter per kWh
Soft coal             ;  6.3689 kg per kWh
- Calculation method for power benefits :
k VW voles - alternetive thermal feci! ty cost x dependable powar x
fixei cost ratio x adiustonet factor
kV. valuoce   unit price of fuel costs x fuel consunption amount x
annual average energy output x adjustment factor
- Others :
Tie period for econonic analysis  ;  5  years
The discount rate                        t o %
Thus. the annual equivalent power benefits are estimated as about US S 73
million.      In comparison with eppraisal expectations. the differences was due
to following reasons :
- The increase of annual average energy output was due to additional power
plant in Chungju Reregulation dam and increase of energy output at
Paldang plant by rising the flow due to operating of the C huagju da-.
- The power benefits was estimated on the conception of alternative
ttermel plant to Chungju in accordance with the stipulation relating to
Specific Multi - purpose Dan Law instead of tke average revenue per kWh
in Korea on tie basis of turrent tariffs in the appraisel.
6.84    N & I WATER SUPPLY BENEFITS :    According to tie stipulation in eighth
article in the ordinance relating to Specific Multi - purpose Dam Lw. the
N & I water supply benefits was estimated by multifying water price per cubic
meter.      The  water  demand projectTiFWR,r-epplieLL&.a.zn.irage value.- of- that
estimated by ECI's and by KID's ( Korea Industrial Development Institute )
demand projection forecasted as of 1985.    The N & I benefits were obtained as
the following principle.   Water price per cubic meter and yearly expenditures.
including operating. maintenance and replacement cost. were estimated on the
conception of least alternative construction cost by the related stipulation in
Specific Multi - purpose Dam Law.        The water demand projection and  benefits
summerized  end  arranged  as shown in Appendix 22.          Estimated U &  I water
price according to the above nethod is I 13.37 per cubic meter.
Where. the differences as compared to appraisal expectations were summarized as
follows
- The full water demands wore expected in 2098 instead of 2001 in the
appraisal expectations.       Thus. the forecasting year of the full water
demonds was delays seven years.
- According to the stipulation in Specific Multi - purpose Dam Low. the
water benefits were estimaed en the basis of least alternative
coestruetiom cost instead of the set economic value of municipal water
and the prevailiag tariff for raw water withdrawal in the appraisel.
6.05      IRRIEATION  WATER SUPPLY BENEFITS ;          The irrigation  water  supply
benefits wear largely devices into the benefit by increase of cultivating area
ani that due to incremental crop production.    The cultivating areas increased



35
due to the construction of Chungju dos were maden on the basis of the existing
idta aid the date collected by the actual investigation.  H.R.W.A.  ( Has River
Water obtained Area ) in the tea year planning of *griculturel water
devel_pmat.   The ineremental crop prodections due to expansion of cultivation
ares were takes from staidard income data for farming and livestock. and from a
statistical yearly book established by the Ministry of Acriculture and
Fisheries.       Tbus.  the  total benefits for the irrigation water demand  was
estimated by additional benefits with incremental area to that due to improved
crop  production  condition.         The  differJnces  as  compared  to  appraisal
expectations for the irrigation water benefits were resulted from the following
reasons ;
- The irrigation water benefit was estimated by the benefits as mentioned
above in accordance with the stipulation in article S clause 2 in the
ordinance  relating to Specific Mlti - purpose Dam LAw.  instead of the
net economic value of irrigation water in the appraisal expectations.
- The full water demands were represented in 2008. the same as the period
of M & I water demand. instead of 2081 in the appraisal expectations.
The  foreseeing  full water demands period was  postponed  seven  years.
Thus. the yearly irrigation water demand and irrigation benefitj are
presented in Appendix 22.
5.06       FLDOD  CONTROL BENEFITS ;        I  order to estimate  benefits  due  to
reduction of flood damage. the river below tie damsite devide into five flood
damage  reaches.  the same method as estimated in the appraisal.            There  are
three reaches on the South Hln ( S-l.  S-2 and S-3 ).           The downstream reach.
S-l.  begins at the confluence of the North and South Han and extended  beyound
its index gage at Yangpyong.        The S-2 reach extended furtber upstream beyond
the index gage at Yeoju. and S-3 ends at the damsite and its index gage is at
Cbungju.      The lower Han was devided into two reaches ( D-1 and D-2 ).
The upper reach ( D-2 ) extended below the confluence. and the Koen gage is its
index gage.      The lower reaci ( D-1 ) included Seoul and its index gage is at
Indogyo.       The flooi damage estimate was assumed based on stage  - frequency
curve and stage - damage curve in HRBR's report end NK's preliminary design
report.
Flood damage growth rate was estimated in accordance with the estimating method
in HRBR's report and NK's preliminary design report.           The studies leading to
estimates of benefit due to reduction of flood damage were finally done the
same  principle as estimated in the approisal.           Thus.  the growth rate  and
benefits  due  to flood control were presented in  Appendix  23.            Where.  in
comparison with appraisal expectations. the differences of flood benefits were
due to tie following reasons :
- A  little  differeoces  of fleod damage growth rate were  resulted  from
adopted  ssamptiss.       In the ecoenoic reevaluation. it was adeopte  the
growth rate of the beoefits doe to flood control to two zones which
were  the  South  Han end  the  lower  Han.  respectively.  instead  of
integrated  zone in the approisel.          That is.  to the Soutb Hen zone.
the growth rate have been assumed to increase of an annual rate of 5 X
from  1985  to 200S.  at 4 X for the next ten years.  at 3.5 %  for  the



36
*ether next ten years.  and at 3 S tereoafter.    To the lower Man zoao.
the growtb rets bove beon assumed to inerease at an annual rate of 6 X
free 165 to 2309. at S X for the next ten years. *t 4 X for the ether
next ten years. at 3.5 X tiereafter.
- Benefits due to iacreesed agricultural production were excluded instead
of taking into eoasideretion ef thet in appreisal.          Details of  flod4
benefits to two zoes are presented in Appendix 23.
8.67      ECONOMIC RATE Of RETURN :        Using the foregoing assumptions ani  the
actual investment costs end water supply. power and flood control benefits over
a 5? - year evaluation period ( including the construction period ). the
economic internal rate of return has been re-estimated for the wkole Project.
oxpressed in 1979 constant values.        The economic internal rate of return for
the economic reevaluation has been calculated 13.91 percent. compared with 12
percent  by the appraisal report.        The results of this were  summerized  and
arranted  in Appendix 24.       The moin factor contributing to this hither  EIRR
was resulted from the increase of annual average energy output due to
additional power plant in the Reregulation dam and increase of energy output
at Paldang plant by rising the inflow.
6.18      THE SENSITIVITY TEST ;        The sensitivity analysis for the  internal
rate of return bes been carried out in the case of adopted same period to the
full water demid as estimated in the appraisal (case 1).            In this case.  it
is  approised to be 14.49 percent of EIRM.         The results of this presented in
Appendix  25.        Wbile  it  is estimated in the caee of a 15  - year  log  in
attaining  full water demand (case 2).         In this cse.  the economic rate  of
return has been appraised at 13.41 pereent.          The results of this summerized
in Appendix 26.
7. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01      PROJECT  FORMULATION  ;        The  comprehensive  study  of  the  water
resources of the Han River Basin done by the USBR in 1971 gave first priority
to  tie  implementation of the Chongju Dam.         Also.  ECI was implemented  the
feasibility study about the ChUngjU Project in 1976 by request of ISWACO and
N.K.  prepared Preliminary Design Report in 1978.    The ChUmgjU Dam at present
site  with  a  live storage capacity of 1.789 million cu * weld  be  tie  mst
eooeaeical seats of meting the agriecltural, municipal and industrial water
requiremet  of Hern River Basin till 2661.         The Project we therefore a well
- conceived project for the exploitation of the water resources of the Hon
River Basin.



37
7.P2      BANK'S PERFORMANCE ;        The Bank played a very crecisl and effective
role  in  the appraisal ant implementation of the Project.           There  was  very
little  delay in the course of appraisal end subsequent loon  approval.            The
close  esedietiam  betwe   the Beak and the Excutiag Agency  resulted  in  tie
early  appointment  of  consilt4ats for praperetiom of a  detailed  design  and
construction  supervision.        Siuiliarly.  ihe Contract for civil works of the
de- and power station and procurement of essential equipment were also
finalized  without  deleys.        The  Baek  fielied  Review  Missions  and  Loan
Administration  Mission.  during the seven - year implementation Period.            At
least one loon review mission visited the Project every year.           The period of
tbese missions rangte from four days to ten doys each time. which is considered
adequate ond satisfactory.



39
Appendix 1. PROJECT IDCATION IAP
.         ~CHUNGJU                    _                                            -
MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT                     -
Exiefmg Irvigatd Arma       
b- -tpu ..nunGI uhuD>_ *S 
Potential Deal Rel                     \_moio
:  -; Ffufue Reserors        a^^                                      1.^" 
_  Potential tiddl ReCohnatioA                                      < z 
Ba Ssin Boundety           :                          l¢     
-      _- Roads
Exptesswys (Tofl)                                   I                 I 9.
-Railway,s
~ Riv s
--Provrncial and Special  _
City BoundorGes
1-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
71
'1'04   11                                                              1~o~
g->z1   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA~t
"I              tt i'



~~(W                                                 /  -    -,
,-, 4. 
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Q\~ZZ
-   JJiJ/<s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r'~~~~~~ \~~~~~~
_________           sun_    7n a            *a -rn:                 t""



41
ililnilt    ~~~~~- ---------'-t-1 ---l               ......t
l'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,';tj.r'   |'............-
W    '*;   *  °   ,*-  -- h   1   '*a_;    ; !il  wt  s~~~~~~........
,  'i   --=---t!  ' ''~~~~~~T-r-=-;4 ;'-
f       et         
{,,,,ij',,,i!',~~~~/4 I.. 8t',n
.', .',.t ii~~~~~~~~~~~y7



Appendix 4.  PROIECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDMlE
1978        1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984         1985
VW  KITEM            ---
1 2         1341 2 3 4 1 23 4 1 2 3 4 1  3 4   2 3 4 1 234
SITE PREPARATION               ----------m    
RIVER DI1__ION
TIJNUEL (2)                                         unm        m 
DAM
KXCAVATIIN-IJIFT RANW
-RTISTAT B_ANK                       -     m                                           _           I
MCII                                                                                .         .  mm     .m   .  .  . 
SPI LLWAY     I                                                                                             I    I
EXCAVAT ION                                                       m  m  m m _  t                      -  - I
f~~~A 14 4* 1   ;,
E~XCAVATION                                                          -m 
STRUC~TURIE                                                                        mmm         mm-mm m
PENSTOICKS                                                                         -m       mmmm
uINIT I INSTALLATION-    --mm-mmm
IINIT 2 INSTALM.IAON                                                                               mm        m
IINIT 3 lNSTAI..ArIIIN
IINIT 4 MIALLMJAION                                                                             m        
TRANSMISSION AND SWITIMIAR
I.PF.'oND fIre~inaiw
At I o4a I~~~~~I                                                                      -     



43
Appendix. S
page I
Appendix 5. SALIENI FEATURES OF THE PROJECT
A. CHUNGJU DAN
1. RESERWO!R
Catchment oeoe                          ; 6.648 sq km
Annual inflow                           : 5.39 million cu m
maxims reservoir water surface          ; El. 145.6 a
( Flood water level )
Conservation pool level.
Sept. Z1 to June 20 3            El. 141.8 a
June 21 to Sept. 20           ; El. 138.0 a
Minimum pool level                      ; El. 116.8 m
Reservoir area at El. 141.8 m           ; 8B sq km
at El. 145.6 m          : 97 sq km
Reservoir length along water course   ; 82.5 km
including backwater at design flood
G0 ss storage capacity before silting.
at F. V. L. 145.3             ; 2.759 million cu m
at H. I. L. 141.8             ; 2.385 million cu o
Effective storage before silting        ;  1.789 million eu a
2. DAN AND SPILLWAY
Main dea
Type                      ; Concrete gravity dam
Hight above foundation   ; 97.5 m
Crest length              : 447 o
Crest elevation           ; El. 147.5 a
Den concrete volume       ; 902.803  co 
Spillway ;
Type                      : Gted free overflow type with
stilling besin
Design diseharge             16.0 0 cu a / a ( corresponding to
59 - year probable flood outflow
after reservoir regulation )
Overflow crest elevation : El. 126.8  a
Flow width                ; 6 boys 15.5 a each + S piors 3.5 a
ack h 110.S a
Gale                      : 6 sets of 15.5 a wide by 17.9 m bigh
radial gate
Gentry crses              ; A 25 - toe  capacity mater drives
travelling creat to beadle stepeIgs
Roadway bridge            : 8.5 a wide P.C girier bridge                                 -
( Design load : DB -24 and gantry crane



44
Appendix. 5
page 2
River eutlet:
Typ                        ; Steel - lined cenduit ( 1.85 to 2.1 a
die. ) occemedotod in A**
Joist Coster *elottea   : El. 86.6 .
Disichrge capacity           54 eu * / s at reservoir water level of
El. 141.0 -
Dishtorgo control tote        1.85    ie. jet - flow gate
Protection  ateo              1.85 B     die. ring - follower gate
NRnber                     :  1 set
3. INTAKE AND PENSTOCK
latake :
Type                          Bellmouth type. 15.7 * wide end 14.9 -
kigt with trashrock
Gate                       : 8.5 a by 6.5 a vertical lift fixed -
wheel tete with a 466 a die, bypess
Valle                                  -
Numbers                    : 4 sets
Steel penstock
Type                       ; Concrete - encesed steel penstock
Inner dihamter            ; 8.5 a to 5.5 a
Length                        112.8 a - IIS.1 a
Number                     ; 4 sets
4.  POWER STATION No.1                                                                            !
Building                      ; Surface type powerhouse located on the
right ehutment at toe of the doq
Toil water level              ; El. 7t.8 a ( overage in plant operation )
Annual energy output          ; 764.8 million KWh ( averate )
Turbine :
Type                       ; Vertical shaft Francis type
Runner diameter            ; 4.88 n
Rated output               ; 4 x 163.1 MW
Rated speed                ;  128.5 rpm
Rated bead                 ; 57.5 n
Max. discharge               207 eu a / 8 eOac
mex. gross beed            ; 86 m
Genereter ;
Type                       ; Vertical shett. umbrella type  self
veotilation and recireuletinU type with
air cooler. tree - pLese sya.hreaew.
generator
Rotor diameter             ; 9.955 a
Rated output               : 4 x 117.6 WVA at P.F. 6.85 ( legging )
Rated voltate              ;  13.8 kV



45
Appendix. S
page 3
Freaqency                  ; 6s Hz
Station crame                 ; 2 x 165 too capacity bridge crone
Main transfermer              ; 4 x 149.3 VA (OFA?). 13.2 kV/154 kV
B. REREGULATION DAM
1. RESERVOIR
Remaining catclment area    :  loiz .-- K
Flood bigh wvter level        : El. 67.3 a
Normal high water level       ; El. 65.1 o ( or El. 64.9 a when heavy
rain bits Chung4u city )
Low water level ( dormal )  ; El. 63.5 a
( Extreme ) ; El. 61.8 a
Gros8  storage capecity       ; 29.2 million cu x
C below H.W.L. )
Effective storage capacity  ;  17 million ev a
( between El. 6.1 and 81.8 a )
2. DAM AND SPILLWAY
Ron - overflow dam
Type                      : Concrete gravity dam
Height above foundation  :  19.9 a
Crest length              : 77.5 a
Crest elevation            ; 78.9 a
Spillway ;
Type                      : Gated free overflow weir type
Design discharge          :  14.808 tv n/8 (100-year probable flood)
Overflow crest elevation ; El. 58.9 0
Flow width                 ; 20 bays 9 15.9 a + 19 piers 9 2.5 a -
347.5 a ( Left bank two bays are for
usual service )
Gate                       ; Twenty 15 a wide by 7.705 a high vertical
lift fixed wheel gates
Stopleg                    : 2 sets to be bandied by *onorail hoist
Bedway bridge
Type                      : Pre-st cescrete girder
Total leegth              ;  17.5 a x 2  spass - 331 a
Effective width           : 6.0 .
Desige lead               ; DB - 24



46
Appendix. 5
Page 4
3. INTAKE
Type                          : Horizoatel box - flume type with fixed
tresarack end raking equipment
Gate                          : Two 11.5 a wide by 8.6 * high vertical
lift fixed - wheel g6te
4.  POWER STATION No.2
Building                     ; Semi - underground type concrete building
witb steel roof trusses located on left
abutment just downstream of dam
Tail water level              ; El. 54.45 ( average in plant operation )
Annual energy output         : 79.S million KWb ( average )
Turbine
Type                      ; Horizontal bulb type with movable blade
runner
Runner dianeter           ; 3.3 .
Rated output              ; 2 x 6.380 KW
Rated speed               ;  171 rpm
Rated beed                ; 9.2 a
Max. discharge            ; 75.3 co m / s each
Generator ;
Type                      : Horizontal shaft alternating current
synchronous generator
Rotor dianeter            : 3.837 m
Rated output                 2 x 7.860 kVA at P.F. 6.8S
Rated voltage             : 6.6 kV
Frequency                    60 Hz
Station crane                   A 33 - ton capacity bridge crane
Main transformer             ; 2 x 7.368 kVA. 6.3 kV/66 kV
5. TRANSMISSION LINE
66 KV transmission line      ;  13 km long between power statson No. 2
and power station No. 1.



47
Appendix 6. RX4LLOCATION OF THE IBRD LOAN
UNIT : US S THOUSAND
CATECORY            ORIGINAL      1ST       2ND       ACTUAL     BALANCE
ALLOCATION REALLOCA. REALLOCA. DISBURSMENT UNDIS5LV8>ED
1. CIVIL WORKS                  78.000    97.700    97.090       96.177         913
A) MOBILIZATION FOR            5.000      5,000     5.000       5.000            0
PART A OF THE PROJECT
B) CIVIL WORKM                73.000    92.700    92.090       91.177         912
79/C'/001
RAILROAD
2. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS      37.000    25.000    25.774       25.755           19
A) EWQIPXENT AND MATERIALS
BY EITy.UfNT (82/C.'0o02
C) EQUIPIENT (82/M/003)
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          2.000     2.300      2.136       2,058          78
A) CONSULT.ANTlS SERVICES                2.150      1.986        1.978          8
1) .WONG
2) CONSULTING P.NEL
B) OVERSEAS TRAINING                        150       150          80          70
4. UNALLOCATED                   8.000          0         0           0           0
TOTAL               125.000   125.000   125.000      123.990       1.010



48
Appendix 7. CONTRACTS UNDER IBRD'S PROCUREYENr GUIDELINE
CONTRACT NO.               WIRK                     CONTRACTOR      CONTRACT DATE
79/C'OO1   CIVIL WORKS FOR CHUNGJU DAM AND   HYUNDAI ENGINEERING  DEC.18,1979
POWER STATION INCLUDING INSTALLA-  AND CONSTRUCTION
TION OF GATES & PENSTOCKS
8$LC,'002   CIVIL WRBKS FOR REREGULATION     HYUNDAI ENGINEERING   AL'G.8.1982
DAM AND POWER STATION NO.2        AND CONSTRUCTION
INCLUDING METAL WORKS FOR
GATES
82/R/OO1   CIVIL WDEKS FOR JUNGANG RAILROAD  DAEWO CO.             DEC. 3.1982
LINE (DODAM-JUGNYEONG) RELOCATION
82MV/003  SUPPLY OF SPILLWAY & INTAKE        HYLNDAI ENGINEERING  JAN.26.1983
GATES. STOPLDCS AND GANTRY        AND CONSTRUCTION
CRANE
* Some contracts for funisbed materials Cement & Reinforcement Steel Bar
was not included in this table



49
Appendix 8. CON(MTS UNDER OECF'S PFOCUREEN  GUIDELINE
WNTRACT NO.                VW                      CONITRACTOR    CONTRMCT DATE
7SA001  TURBINES AND ECHANIC.AL EQUIP-    DAEWOO HEAVY IND./   MAR. 13.1980
MOETS IN POR STATION NO. I       TOSHIBA CORP.
9/L-E'001  GENEP.ATORS AND ELERIC7ML EQUIP-  DAEWOO HEAVY IND./   MAR.13,1980
MENTS IN POWER STATION NO. I     TOSHIBA CORP
SUPPLY OF CABLE CRANES           ISHIKAWAJIMA-HARIMA  JUL. 9.1980
HEAVY IND.               _
82'VO0   DESIGN OF SPILLWAY & INTAME        HYUNDAI HEAVY        JUL .14.. 981
GATES AND SUPPLY OF THEIR HOISTS  INDUSRY
AND RIVER OUTLET GATES
81/F/O01  FLOOD FORECASTING SYSTM           DAEYOUNG ELCTRONICS
IND.,'UTSUSHITA CO*- MAR.11.198Z
bIICATION IND.
C'E/003  POER PLANTS. TR,ANSF0P',0S &      KOREA HEAVY I.D. AND DEC.Z8.198Z
SWITCH GEARS FOR POWER           CONSTRUCTION / FUJI
STATION NO. 2                    ELECTRIC
82/E/002   SUPPLY OF HIGH VOLTAGE SWITCH    NISSHO-iWAI CORP.,'  JUL.25. 1838
GEAR AND INSULTLORS              C. ITOH & CO.



50
Appendix 9. SUIMARY OF THE PROJECT COSTS
BXCHANGE RATE : tS S 1.00 - W 892.50
(DEC.31,1985)
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL   FOREIGN
CATEGORY         -                                                      EXCHANGE
(W BILL.)<  BILLM)(  BILLM)S MILL.)(S X4ILLM)S MILL.)  (Qv)
A. CIVIL WMRKS
1. SITE PREPA. AND BUILD    2.05     4.01     6.07     2;30      4.50     6.80    66.14
2. RIVER DIVERSION          2.91     8.93    11.84      3.27    10.01    13.27  _75.40
3. DAM AND SPILLWAY        24.09    73.82    97.31    26.99    82.71   109.70    75.40
4. POWER HDUSE              3..8    10.04    13.31      3.67    11.     14.92    75.40
5. REREGULATING DAM         1.89     3.78     5.67     2.12      4.24     6.36    66.70
6. RELOCATION AND         106.32     7.02   113.34   119.12      7.87  126.99      6.19
PROTECTIVE WORKS                                                                               A
SUBTOTAL           140.54   107.60   248.14   157.47   120.56   2.78.03    43.36
B.GATES.GUIDES AND HOISTS    4.39    10.37    14.76      4.92    11.62    16.54    70.25
C.POWERHOUSE EQlIlPMENT     24.49    28.2?    52.76    27.44    31.68    59.12    53.58
D.PURNISHED MATERIALS        4.34    14.93    192.    5.42    16.-73    22.15    75.53
E.COMPENSATION             153.82     0.00   153.82   172.35      0.00   172.35     0.00
FPCONSULTANTS                0.68     8.18     8.86    0a.6       9.16     9.92    92.35
G.ENGINEERING  ND .ADMIN.    56.93    0.00    56.93    63.79      0.00    63.79     0.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST      385.59   169.36   555.05   432.15   189.75   621.90    30.51
A CTUAL COST WAS INCUDED PRICE ESCALATION



51
Appendix. 10
page. 1
Appendix 10. DETAIL ACTUAL COST
EXCIAI RATE : US 3 1.00 - W  M .50
(DEC.31.1985)
AMUNTF(US S MILLION)
CATEGORY         UNIT  MJAUNPITIES   UNIT PRICE
(US 3)     TOTAL   LOC.XL  FOREIGN
A. CIVIL WORKS
I.SITE PREPARATION AND BUILDINGS
-ACCESS & CONSTR. ROAD  L.S                                5.96     1.47     4.30
-ISWACO HOUSING
AND OFFICE           L.S                                0.83     0.83      0.00
-CO.NTRACTOR'S CAMPS    L.S
-SITE INVESTIGATIONS    L.S
-RESERVOIR CLEARING    SQ KM
SUBTOTAL                         1                   6.80     2.30     4.50
2.RIVER DIVERSION
-PORTAL EXCAVATION     CU N      265.000             9    2.29      0.56      1.73
-COFFERDAMS             L.S                                1.59     0.39      1.20
-TUNNEL EXCAVATION     CU m      183.000            21     3.7.8    0.93     2.85
-TUNNEL LINING         CU K       41.000            91     3.72     0.92     2.81
-TUNNEL SUPPORTS        TON          228         1.499     0.34     0.08     0.26
-REINFORCING STEEL      TON          700           350     0.^5     0.06     0.18
-DRILLING AND GROUTING  L.S                                0.19     0.05     0.15
-MINOR ITEMS            L.S  DIVERSION CLOSURE INCLUDED    1.11     0.27     0.84
SUBTOTAL                                            13.7'    3.27    10.01
3.DAM .AD SPILLWAY
-EARTH EYCAVATION      CU N      531.000             3     1.48     0.36     1.12
-ROCK EFXCAVATION      CU m    5.937.000            10   59.96    14.7'5    45.20
-MASS CONCRETE/a       CU N      902.000            14    12.66     3.12     9.35
-STRUCTURAL CONCRETa CU N        170.000            12    2.02      0.;0     1.52
-REINFORCING STEEL/b    tON        8.^00           167     1.37     0.34     1.03
-DRILLING AND GROUTING  L.S                                2.9      0.69   ^.10
-MINOR ITEMS            L.S                               29.43     7.24    22.19
SUBTOTAL                                           109.70    26.39    8 9 .7
4.PO0ER HDUOE
-EARTH EXCAVATION      CU m      160.000             2     0.33     0.08     0.5
-ROCK EXCAVATION       CU N      484.000            11    5.34      1.31     4.03
-STRUCTURAL CONCRETE,a CU N       64,000            96     6.15     1.51     4.63



52
Appendix. 10
page.
AMDUN(US S MILLION)
CATEGRY          UNIT   O!ANTITIES   UNIT PRICE   -
(US S)      TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREICN
-REINFORCING STEEI/b    ION
-BAC.FILL              CU M        50,000            15      0.76     0.19     0.57
-MINOR ITEMlS           L.S                                  2.35     0.58     1
SL'BTOTAL                                              14.32     3.67    11.25
5.REREGULkTING DAN
-EARTH ELXCAVATIOQN    CU !      2088.000             1      0.19     0.06     0. 1
-ROCK EXCAVATION       CU M       47.000              5      0.24     0.08     0.16
-ENSANKWN  FILL        CU M
-SLOPE PROTECTION      SQ M
-MASS CONCRETE'a       CU m        65.000            53      3.42     1.14     2.28
-STRUCTLTAL CONCRETE/a CU M        31.000            19      0.59     0.20   - 0.40
-REINFORCING STEEL/'b   TON         ".400            38      0.09     0.03     0.06
-BRIDGE                 L.S                                  0.16     0.05     0.10
-MINOR ITEMS            L.S                                  1.67     0.35     1.11
SUBTOTAL                                              6.36      2.12     4.24
6.RELOCATION AND PROTECTIVE WORKS
i)ROAD RELOCATION
-EARTH WORK .ND PAVING  KM            97
-BRIDGE                  M         ^-.728
-LAND                   HA            572
SUBTOTAL                                             84.77    84.7-      0.00
Z)RAIL RELOCATION
-EARTH 'RORK AND PAVI.N   XM           13
-BRIDGE                  N           850
-TUNNELS                 N          1.810
-LAND                   HA             92
SUBTOTAL                                             28 70    20.83      7.87
3)REETTLE)ENT            L.S                                 13.52    13.52     0.00
4)POMR FACILITIES             INCMUDED IN MAINDAM
-DISTRIBUTION LINES     KM
-SUBSTATIONS            No
S)PROTECTIVE WORKS            INCLUDED IN COWENSATION
-DONGYANG TALC MINE     L.S
-SUNGSIN CEMENT PLANT   L.S
-MISCELLANEOUS          L.S



53
Appendix. 10
page. 3
AMOUNT(US S MILLION)
CATEMORY        UNIT  QUANtITIES  UNIT PRICE
(US 3)     TOTAL   LQCAL  FD1EUIG
6)PUBLIC BUILDINGS      L.S  INCLUDED IN CWPENSATION
TOTAL                                            126.99   119.12    7.8-
* TOTAL CIVIL WMRK5                                     2.78.03   157.47   120.,6
B. GATES.GUIDES AND HOISTS
1.DIVERSION CLOSURE    TON  INCLUDED IN DIVERSION
2.SPILLWAY             TON        1,978         3.351    7.5.    1.44    6.18
3.POWER INTAKES        TON          908         4.^05    3.82    0.72   -3.10
4.REREGULATING DAM     TON        1,400         1,846    2.58    2.28       0.30
5.DRAFT TUBE           TON
6.STOPLOGS             TON          517         4.872    2.52      0.48    2.04
7.CRANES               L.S
8.RIVER OUTLET VALVE   L.S
TOTAL                                             16.54    4.92    11.62
C. POWEPROUSE EQUIPMENT
1.TLURBIES. GOVMENORS
AND VALVE        .UO            4    3.659.104    14.64    7.72       6.92
2.GENERATORS           NO             4    4,397.473    18.39    3.57    14.82
3.TRANSFORMERS         NO             4     1,265.546    5.06    4.79      0.74
4.PENSTOCK             TON        2.000         3.030    6.06    6.06       0.00
5.POWERHOUSE CRANE     L.S
6.SWITCP.GEAR          L.S
7.TRANS4IISSI'  ANES   KM                                 1.85     1.33    0.00
8.MISC.ELEC.  AL EMUI L.S  !NCLUDED IN GENERATORS
9.MISC.M1ECIlMNICAL EMUI L.S  INCLUDED [N TURBINES
10.TELEMETERING         L.S  NEW ITEM                     3.63    0.18      3.45
11.EQUIPWENT FOR NO..2   L.S  NEW ITEM                    9.49    3.2-      6.22
TOTAL                                             59.1^   27.44   3'.68
D.FURNISHED MATERIALS
l.CEMENT               TON      290.000            56   16.71    4.09    12.62
&.REINFORCING STEEL    TON       17.400           313    5.44      1.33    4.11
TOTL 2..15                                                  5.42    16.3 i
MTAtL                                             ^.        5.42    i 16-3



54
Appendix. 10
page. 4
AMUNT(US S MILLION)
CATEGORY        UNIT  QUANTITIES  UNIT PRCE
(US 3)     TOTAL   LOCAL  FOREIGN
E.COMPENSATION FOR LAND AND PPRDPERTY
1.PIADDY L.WD          HA        2.747        12.922   35.30   35.50    0.00
2.UPLALD               HA         J.66a       20.195   33.69    33.69     0.00
3.BUILDV3IV LAND       HA          241        94.085   22.67   22.67    0.00
4.FOREST               HA        2..           1.494    3.40    3.40    O.0C
5.FRIIIT TREES         NO
6.MULBERRY BUSHES      NO     ,115.836            2    3.57    3.57      0.00
7.HOUSES               NO       22,118         1,480   32.74   3Z.74    0.00
8.GRAVES               NO        14.559          108     1.58    1.58     0.00
9.S'LL BUSI.ESSES      NO         1.511        2.391     3.61    3.61    0.O0
10.RE1OVAL EVENSE    FAXMILIE     6.452           132    0.85    0.85    0.00
11.SUBSISTENCE        PERS0NS    28.381           202    5.74    5.7-4  _ 0.00
1Z.MINERAL RIGHTS      L.S                                1.2    1.92     0.00
13.PIJBLIC BUILDING     NO          431        10.859    4.68    4.68      0.OC
14.CULT10-AL RESOURCES  INO      102.00        18.103     1.85    1.85    0.00
15.OTHEP FACILITIES     L.S                               3.13    3.13     0.00
16.PLW.l HOL'SE         L.S                               3.38    3.38     0.O0
17.ONCONSTCTION LtN)    HA       1L93.00       65.212    12.59   12.59     0.00
18.MIXOR ITE.Y          L.S  (N013-N4018 NEW ITEM)        1.44    1.44    0.00
TOTAL                                           1I.5   172.35    0.00
F.CONSULTING SERV'ICES XND ISWACO CSTS
1.PRDJECT CO:SULTAITS   L.S                               .95     0.76    7.19
M.CONSULTING PANEL      L.S                               0.28    0.00     0.2
3. PREC3,NSTIRUCTION
ENGINEERI\G(NAKDONG)  L.S                               1.75    0.00     1 _
4.ENGINEERING AND           ADDED INTEREST OF THE LOAN AND THE FUND
ADMINISTRATION        L.S                              63.79    63.79    0.00
TOTAL                                            73.71    64.3-    9.16
GR0ND TOTAL                                        621.90   432.15   189.7-
ACTUAL COST WAS INCLUDED PRICE ESCALATION
/a Excludes supply of cement but includes from work.
/b Placement only.



Arppitdix l1. ANNIAI. .XPENDITIIlE Oll TIlE PROIECT COST
IUIT ; 115 S MILLION
EXCIIANGE  ATWE   (I S  1.00 - W 892.50
(1D1,.S31, 1985k
CATWXIIIY           1978    IW9    1980    1981    198,2  1IU83    198       19N5     T0TAL
A. CIVII. WIRLS
l.SITE PI.l'A. AND BUI.DINGS   0.50    0.34 2n.05    2.21       .35    0.26    0.20      0.87     C.80
2.RIVRR DIVUlRION              11.11) 10.100    5.13    5.56    I.8f3   01.28    1.2     (1.2'5   13.27
3.IAM AD Ati') .LLWAY         0.n01)   0.110  21.26   33.25   17.78   15.229    1.1:'   21.00   1069.70
4.PWM  IIIIISE                 11.91    11.011   0-00    I.4.98    .51s   '.9!1  I .99    1.43    11.92
5.1KI ILAMItE DAM             u.lU    O (.ol    (.ol    o.!U   i.7I   :'.5 .    .8a      O.,N     0.36              VI
6. 1EUKACATHIN ANI) II'4ITECT7IVII  0.00   0111.    11.100   (1.110   7.89   29I.88   GO-.Ol    29l IJ.l    I 96.99
SUBTOTAM.            0.50    0.34   28.43   16;.03   31.11 1 .2n0  6?.39    52.95   278.03
B. GATES.GIIDIS AtD IISTS       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.51    6.03    9.3.9S    0.57    16.54
C. rOWERiISH. EnIPIIElNT       0n.n0    0.00    2.08    1.06   11.50   17.6-1  23.89       ".89    59.12
D. FIMNMISHEM MATERIAJS         0.09    0 .r s5   0.14    5.45    6.8fi   4.61    3.8C     1.07    22.15
B. aWmBArlTIN                   0.13    0.02    0.47   13-16   40-.01   91J.0   1.I0I    10.87   I7.35
P. CrSIRITAtffS                 0.7C    1.07    1.16    2.14    2.0-1    0.c8      l.9I    0. 98    9.92
C. ENGINEEIUMAtI    AND ADMIN.  1.40    0.95    1.)97    G.05    7.C7   12.41   16.15     I G .89    63.79
(N. .4z
TiAL. EXPEifl)ITnimIE          2.851    2.-12   34.25   73.91   9U'.87  18.1.38  137.197   8R.,'  lC2.911



Appendix 12. COMPARISON OF THE PROJECT COSTS
UNIT : US S MILLION
EXCHANGE RATE : US S 1.00 - W 485.00 (Appraisal)
US S 1.00 - W 892.50 (Dec.31.1985)
A           B             C        C-A         C-B
CATEGORY           APPRAISAL   APPRAISAL       ACTUAL  DIFFERZ:.C- DI Fv-RER-ECS
(INCL.ESCAL.)
A. CIVIL WORKS
I. SITE PPEPA. XND BUILDINGS       12.6         13.0         6.8       (5.3)       (6.2)
2. RIVER DIVERSION                 12.0         13.2        13.3        1.3        0.1
3. DAN AND SPILL VAY               83.9        104.1       109.?       25.8         5.6
4. POWER HOUSE                     13.1         17.1        14.9        1.3        tZ.Z)
5. REREGJLATING DAN                10.9         14.0         6.4       (4.-3       (T.6J
6. RELOCATION AND PROTECTIVE       38.0         46.0       1 7.0       89.0       8I.0
SUBTOTAL                170.5        207.4      278.0       107.5       70.6
8. GATES.GUIDES  ND .OISTS          23.4         29.3        16.5       (8.9)     QZ-8)
C. POWERHOUSE EQUIPMENT             75.9         95.7        59.1      (16.8)     (36.6)
D. FURISHED MATERIALS              15.7         17.7       22.2         6.5        4.5
E. COMPENSATION                    109.0        127.3       172.3       69.8       44.4
F. CONSULTUMTS                       7.0          8.1         9.9        2.9        1.8
G. ENGINEERINC AND ADMIN.           20.0         23.9        63.8       43.8       39.3
H. E.PECTED PRICE INCREASES         88.5          0.0         0.0      (88.-3       0.9
TOTAL PROJECt COST          510.0         510.0      621.9       111.9      111.9
^ ACTMAL COST WAS INCUDED PRICE ESCALATION
*  ( ) MEANS REDUTION



Appendix 13. DETAIL DISBURSEMENT OF THE IBRD LOAN
UNIT: US S MILLION
CATEGORY              A         B          C        C-A         C-B
ORIGINAL   REVISED    Xc.l .  DI     :EWE  DIF9S:c
1. CIVIL WPJ.                  78.30     97.09      06.18      18.18       (0.91I
A) MBILIZATION FOR            5.00      5.00       5.00       0.00        0.00
PART A OF xE PROJECT
8) CIV'IL M3PI               78.30     92.09      91.18      18.18 a0.O1
79;C.'ool                                       90
8."' '002.                                      4 .4
RAILPJIAD                                       7.87
. EIPNT AD MATERLILS          37.00     E5."7     U.S        (11.Z7I      (C.0'!
A) EQUIP£ET AN  MATERIALS                         16.7'
B) EUIPMENT (82/C/'00)                             0.30
C' EQUIPSIENT (82. W003)                           8.-73
3. TECHICAL ASSISTAC:           2.00      ^.14       2 .06      0.06       (0.08)
A," COMSULiNT'S SERVICES                1.39       1.98       1.08       (0.01)
1) !WO.G                                         ' .7!
2) CO.ULTING P.ANEL                               0.23
B) OVERSEAS TRAINI?IG                   0-         0.38       0.08       (0.07)
4. UN%J.LOCATED                 8.00      0.00       0.00      (8.00)       0.00
TOTAL              125.00    125.00    123.99       (1.01)      (1.01)
( ) !E'ANS REDCTION



58
Appendix 14. ANNUAL DISBLEE,T OF THE IBRD LOAN
UNIT: US S NIILLICN
YEARS      ORIGINAL PLAN                      DISBL'J1E
AMOUNT         CIthRUTIVE         AMOUNT      CITLLATIVE
1979                                               5.03
1980                9.30 15;3                                
1981               22.70           32.50          31.85          5S. 1
198Z               30.30           62.80          ZI.05           7-.2
1983               28.-40          91.20          20.33           94.43
1984               23-50          114.70          23.02          117.35
1985               10.30          125.00           6.21          123.26
1986                                               0.73          123.99
TOTAL             125.00          125.00         123-00          123.09



Appeniix 15. DETAIL DIl9UREFNT OF THE OECF0 LOM
UNIT: US   WILItO
CATEGORY              A         B         C         C-A         C-B
ORIC;.'AL  RVISED    ACTUAL  DIFFERENCE  DIFFERE.CE
1. FOREIGCN CURRENY             35.30     49.31     45.07       (9.93)      (3.94)
A) GNEATING EQIPWENT          35.00     28.41      28.32      (6.68)      (0.09)
1) TURBIYE 3I GENERATOR                         28.05
79/E/001                                     14.87
794u1001                                     6.94
82ES/003                                     6.24
2) SlBSTATION EQUIPMENT                            . 0.
B) METAL V3RK                  4.35      6.13      6.06        2.01       (0.06)
1) TELEMETEING                                   3.46
2) GATES AND HOISTS                              s.60
(80/,V002?
C) CONSTRUCTION EQUIPWlT       3.60      3.48      3.48       (0.12)       (.00)
(CALE CRANE)
Di' EGIEERING SERVICE          4.30      7.46      7..I        2.41       (0.24)
E) CONTiNGENC'                 7.5       3.33      0.00       (7.55)      (3.55)
2. LOCAL COST FINANCING         15.00     20.99    z0.a9         5.99         .00
79,4C/,00i                                   20.54
BACHER PLANT                                  0.45
TOTAL                70.00     70.00     66.06       (3.94)      (.30.4)
8, ( ) MEANS FEDUCTION



Appendix 16. SUMMAY OF ALTERNhTIVE CONSTRCION CDST F3R COST ALLIOCATION
- IT: W MILLION
SINGLE-PUlRPOSE DAN                         *ZOMPOUND-I2W-3PE DAM               L   
ITEM                                                                                                       DAM
FOD IRRIGATION  I L&I.       POWR   'ilx.+eOMu PWoD4uZ 'FLOODeIRR:FLW0D-!P.R'
I                    I~~~~~~~~~CONTROL  __   _      _       __         __         __        __         __        _
IAM -TELEVATION(M)    f    j5                       3.5        13.         435      14,- 34                         147.5
1.  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ 31.510                 81.434     141.35       14355    1884     IC-- 1 03 :S 5,.!
I)TEMPORARY FVCILITY                                                     172.541945  5 4188 .363   187.57   .;,      44
12)DAM Eleemir                       840    ~~~~108.444    10.3    ~31 122.463   100.434
-MAINDANII .ANSPLLWAY       4715       787         6. 824 ~   99.858                                              i.-E~'C   AEWY60 -99.858   113.785   113.78  98.69 ~113.785'
-EMERGeCl WATEMY1.154                     .460       -            692       600         92z      632~    692
SUPPLY MLl2N M-                                                                            -1.M
-POWER STATION               -8.5836                                      8.586     8.586      8.-586      -        8.533
FOUNDATICN                  0           13.4                                                                4.4
3)GEERAT"I  MIIP!wJr              a                      CI     943       19.4        944       944                '.   4
-TAILBAY                    -                                     2710   2.710     2110;   2.710?                  z.710
-INTMEESTR1XTURE            -                                  .7.       356       3.576      3.576      -         3.3768
- -PENT8OCK                               -                                             *4141 14.148'    -
- TURBI.E.                              -I 1G148T1.1=                                1 ?-                       I  j.
-WATERWY smTnUTUE           -                                 4.274      4"          Z4       4.274      -4.4
-SWITCIIYARD.TRANSFOWER.     --                                4.7863     47.631   4:TC3    4.76!                   4.763.
4)TRANSMISSION LINE                                                        I4- I   143  1.463   1.452       -,....
IS)FLOOD FORECASTING      I        .           3          1                    Ms'  3  2-S53    2.264       2.24C     3.693
6)REREGRTO  DM--17 .37 1                                                  17.371    17,.37!    17.37       -    ' 1
-DAM  MEM6"c.N              --10.098                                    10.aS8   Io i0.v2    "C Ogg               10..2
MM0.2PO V'EST'ATI0N7.7;                                                  .-I          .       ...I-
I - ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~(.3'              Z,7    200.387,   237,        27011          :.r      -56.467
3.ENINEERING -AN  ADMIN. 3T       5       .C           ,2        745       1.3        92         916       941       I.7
4..NE      DU RING CM .   Z. 7 I           9.464~    I, '99    1227       Ir. 0         Tr        113.556    6.25   1 :-    123.tO
GRAND TOTAL.142              88.-3355   3147.6_31    538. 183 ' 5.;0.640   387-.,7  ' 536.710   417 .l32   s X.3z



61
Appendix 17. COST ALLOCATION BY SEPARABLE COSTS-REMAINING BENEFITS METHOD
UNIT: f MILLION
ITM            FILC  D   |IRRIGATION  M. & I.      POWER     TOTAL |
CQXTROLI                     ,          ,  
A. COST ALLOCATION
1. ALTERNATIVE COST      149.42      88.354 |  347.691    528.1.3
2. JUSTIFIABLE           I,. to.875  25.693    127.405    499.151
EXPENDITURESI                                                               ;
3. APPLICABLE            122.875     25.| 693    127.405    499.151            I
4. SEPARABLE COST         57,426   | 192          1.356    170.,16    =21O 1
5. REMAINING BEYEFITS     65.449     25.5C1    126.S049    328.835 1 545.8834
6. PROPORTION(X)        (11.99)     (4.67)    (23.09)    (60.25)    (100.0)
(5/,(TOTAL))
7. ALLOCATION             43,017     16.755     82,841    216.163    358,776
OF JOINT COST
8. TOTAL ALLOCATION      100,443     16.947     84.197    386,479    588.066
9. PROPORTION(M)        (17.08)     .2.88)    (14.32)  I(65.72 (I00.0)
(9/9 (TOTAL))                     .       (           (
B. PROPORTION(C) FOR                                                I
JOINT USIN5 FACILITIES
1. ALLOCAXTION COST       90.176     15,205     73.605    346.378    527.964
OF CONSTRUCTION  OST 
I. EXCLUSIVELY USE         3.00        212 i     1.488        97.19     102,097
FACILITY COST                            I
3. ALLOCATION COST FORI  86.976      149993     74,11T    249.781    425.867
JOINT USING FACILITIES1          I
4. PPDPORTION(o)       *2043)     (3.52)    (17.40)    (58.605)    (100.3)
(4/4(TOT.AL)) 
I  _   _     _     _          _          _     i  _ _                           I



62
Appendix 18. FINAL COST ALLOCATION FOR THE CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE RPOJECT
UNIT: I YILLION
t   ITEM       I FLDOD   IIRRIGATION M. & I.    POWE         TOTAL
|                  | ~~~CONIFL                                I
________                            .                 I  . L 
I.JOINT USING FACILITIES    91.57n    15.777     7, 991    262.883    448.I
(%)             (20.43)    (3.52)    (17.40)    (58.65)    (100a"07
1) STRUCTURE              88.587     15.263    75.448 1 4254,312 1 43.6 1
2) WATERWAY EQUIP.YENT     2.985        514      2.543 1   8.571       14.S13
(SP ILLI-AY)                                                  I
2    C. ECLUSIVELY USE       I I          1.5 1    1.310    100.974    104.194
FACILITY                       I                     I          .
1) BUILDINGS                      ;              -     |   5.280        .s e|
^) STRUCTURE In                                  -         16.312|  163.12
3) WATERWAY EQUIPMENT      -             95        819,  10.145       11.059
- INTAKE STRLCTLE         _          _-                | S.,8 -       59148
- RIVER OUTLET FACILIT    _             95        819      5,57914
- PeXTOCIK                -                                3 44       3. 944
- TAILBAY                 _          -          -            623 i       I62
4) REREGURATION DAM        -          -                    14,072.    14.0.a-gi
I) GEINERATING EQUIPMENT   -          -                      52.624   52.624
6) FLOOD FORECASTING       1.535         80        691      2.541      4,3-r,
FACILITIES                             j                                I
SUBTOTAL             93.10r     15.952    7 9.30!    63.857    55'.417
(X )            (16.85)     (2.89)    (14.39)    (65.87)    (100.3)
3. OTHERS                   _          - _        - _        -          2.630
GRAN TOTAL            93.107     15.952    79,501    363.857i 55.047
_ _       _ _           _       I  _ _          I _ _                       I



63
Appendix 19. '.DXILY GENERATION OF POMER
UNIT :Wh
GROSS ENERGc' GEE-   AUXILIARY CONSUM.-   NET ENERM'Y SUPPLIED
YEAR      MDNTH    RATION AT CHUNGJU    PTION AT CHWNGJU    TO THE ,E.PCO SYTM.4
POWER STATTON _        POWER STATION__
1985      MAY.             31,101      T6.9 4.20,14
JLIN-   t41.368                          781                40.;87
JUL.  2I0.690                            494                20,196
ALIG            3E6 --3.564              8301               35,733
SEPT.          135.000                  ^,734              132.266
oCT.           1Z5.276       !.3,5                         1^^.-60
NOV.            81.319                 1,941                -9   8-3
DEC.            36.640                 1.225                35.415
SUB-TOTAL        508.158                 11.^01              496.95,
1986      JAN.            50.093       11.48                          48.815
FEB.            5I.375                 1.449                50.926
MAR.            44.269                 1.313                42.95S
APR.            44.929                 1.214                43.715
MAY.            37.Q5                  1.081                36.804
JUN.            40,645                 1,17-3               39,467
JUL.            57481          11.47                        56,305
AUG.           129;.336                270.                 1^S.223
SEPT.           39.385                 1.033                38.952
OCT.            30.332                   807                29.3^5
SUB-TOT.UL       527.230       |         13.736              513.494
TOTAL        1.035.388       |        24,37       |      1.310.451
This table 'vas involved the -ross ener;v generation and auxilidrv consumption
of power station No. 2 in CLungju Rerejulat1on Dam



Ap2endix 20. ORGANIZATION OF I.S.W.AAC.O.
I~~-       "i :'--------
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o "-- or,".
1-      = "-   r ***      o.-..mv,....        vo...-                  *                     l m ..        s.v,vil
ttt H   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"vrl- :M    woomolooom
~~~~~~~~~~~~.qj                    ,,   A. .#S
cavveat's                  oot'iitn
Survival                                                        mossommmo rim~ .5g
@5(3..    0,5watea 
acts-                                Va0a~~~~~~mi sos.   Pel.  S-  iou..  l t i-    oI.
40"   8-ti-  .1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                           lt.. a.mes.1.t.
E3101.m  ooo..  m .        o    tO      
lefim
M-51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t.



65
Appendix 21. PROPORTION OF REPLACEMENT COST
(THE DATA QUOTED FROM U.S.3.R)
I                  |         PROPORTION OF REPLACEMENT (A)   IPROLDN.FAC.(8)ITOTAL I
1ITE1S               I                I        I                            I
1                  1-30 YEARI-40 YEARI-4S YEARI-58 YEARITOTAL IOVER 53 YEARS I(A+B) I
I -.MUAi STRUCTURE  I  -    I .0333  1  -    I  -    1.8333 1   .9667        11t00681
I        I       I        I        I      I              I      I
I 2-POIER FACILITIESI .8878  1 .05330  1.8228  1 .8878  1.2498 1   .7519     It-aloof
I                  I        I        I        I        I      I              I      I
I 3.REREGULATION DAMI .8870  1 .0538  1 .8226  1 .8870  1.2490 1   .7516     11-80081
I                  I        I        I        I        I      I.             I      I
1 4.BUILDINGS . ETC-1 .0870  1 .8533  1 .8228  1 .8870  1.2490 1   .7518     i.00001
IN CASE OF 16 X OF THE DISCOUNTING RATE
I                  I        I  PROPORTION OF I SINKING FUND I  tEPLACEMENT COST   I
I      ITEMS       I PERIOD I REPLACEMENT COSTI    FACTOR    I      FACTOR
I                  I        I       (A)       I      (B)      I       (A)*(B)       1
I                  I        I                 I      .I 
I l.MAIN STRUCTURE  1-48 YEARI       .8333    1     6002259   1       .608675
,             ,        ,        ~ ~             ~ ~ 1  1            1
I 2.POWER FACILITIESI-38 YEARI       .6878    1    .086079   1        .808529
I  REREGULATION DAMI-40 YEMI         .6530    1    .662259   1        .006126       1
I                  I        I                                                       I 
I  BUILDINGS . ETC.1-45 YEARI        .0220    1    .681391   1        .080831
I                   S 058 YEARI      .0878    1    .808859   1        .080075       1
I      TOTAL       I        I                 I               I       .007755
I~            I        I                 I               I                     I
I                  L        .                 .               . 



66
Appendix 22. YEARLY WATER DEMAND PROJECTION AND BENEFITS
DEKAND PROJECTION (NILLION cu *)       BENEFITS (MILLION US S)
YEAR
N & I   IRRICATION     TOTAL      N & I  IRRIGATION       TOTAL
1986     83.93       13.70      93.?7        1.25       6.38        1.62
1987     163.93      27.39     198.39        2.54       3.75        3.29
1988    245.60       41.89    288.69         3.82       1.13        4.95
1989    419.80       54.78     473.78        8.53       1.51        8.34
1996    529.09       68.48     597-48        8.25       1.88       16.13
1991    631.43       82.17     713.57        9.84       2.26       12.16
1992    733.83       95.87     829.67       11.44       2.64       14.98
1993    838.26      109.57     945.77       13.34       3.31       16.35
1994    938.69      123.26   1.861.88       14.83       3.39       18.02
1995   1.041.08     138.96   1,177.96       16.23       3.77      23.30
1996   1.148.B6     150.65   1.297.25       17.87       4.14       22.02
1997   1.252.2O     164.35   1.416.SS       19.52       4.52      24.04
1998   1.3S7.89     178.64   1.535.84       21.17       4.96      26.97
1999   1.463.48     191.74   1.65S.14       22.81       5.27      28.89
2009   1.569.60     265.43   1.774.43       24.46       5.85       33.11
2061   1.891.68     219.13   1.911.73       28.37       8.93       32.40
2362   1.814.23     232.83   2.347303       28.28       6.43       34.69
2603   1.936.86     248.52   2.183.32       36.19       8.78       36.08
2064   2.059.43     286.22   2.319.82       32.16       7.16       39.26
2005   2.182.36     273.91   2.45S.91       34.92       7.54       41.55
2006   2.365.90     287.81   2.652.61       38.87       7.91       44.78
2067   2.548.06    361.33   2.849.39        39.72       8.29       48.31
2068   2.731.36     315.88  3.468.0        42.57       8.67       51.24
2009   2.731.00     315.90   3.646.33       42.57       8.67       51.24
2610   2.731.09     315.98   3.846.89       42.57       8.67       51.24
2911   2.731.66     315.36   3.6468.9       42.S7       8.67       51.24
2312   2.731.88    315.00   3.W48.09        42.57       8.67       51.24
2093   2.731.90     315.96   3.346.09       42.57       8.67       51.24
2914   2.731.00     315.99   3.846.00       42.57       8.67       51.24
2315   2.731.00     315.00   3.046.88       42.57       8.67       51.24
2016   2.731.00     315.30   3.346.93       42.57       8.67       51.24
2017   2.731.00     315.88   3.948.60       42.57       8.67       51.24
2918   2.731.00     315.08   3.846.00       42.57       8.67       51.24
2019   2.731.00     315.63   3.348.96       42.57       8.67       51.24
202M92334  2.731.00     315.00   3.46.88       42.57        8.67      51.24
AVERAGE    2.855.92     244.29   2.300.28       32.35       6.72       38.00
TOTAL   168741.66  I.971PN  112,713.38   1.579.47        329.29   1.899.76



67
*                Appeniix 23.   YEARLY GROWTH RATE AND FLOOD CONTROL BENEFITS
*                      THE GROWTU RATE ( x )  FLDOD CONTROL BENEFITS (MILLDN US 3)
YEAR  ---------------  ------                 --        ------------
SOUTH HAN  LOWER HAN       SOUTH HAN  LDWER HAN       TOTAL
1985    5 %        6 %               8.27        0.89        9.15
1986                                 8.68        0.94        9.62
1987      1          1               9.11         1.0        18.l11
1988      1          1               9.57         1.86       18.63
1989      1          1              18.85         1.12       11.17
1998      I          1               10.55        1.19       11.74
1991      1                         11.88         1.26       12.34
1992      1          1              11.63         1.33       12.97
1993                                1 1  12.21    1.41       13.63
1994      1          1              12.82        1.58       14.32
1995      1          1              13.47        1.59        15.85
1996      1          1              14.14         1.68       15.82
1997      1                         14.85        1.79       16.63
1998      1          1              15.59        1.89       17.48
1999      1          1              16.37        2.01       18.37
2880      I        6 X               17.19       2.13        19.31
2931                5 %              18.85       2.23        20.28
2082      1          1               18.95       2.34        21.29
2083      1          1               19.90       2.46       22.36
2804      1          1              20.89        2.58        23.47
2885     5 1         1              21.93        2.71       24.65
2006    4            1              22.81        2.85       25.66
2007      1          1              23.72        2.99       26.72
2088      1                         24.67         3.14      27.81
2009                                25.66        3.38       28.96
2810      1         5 1             26.69        3.46       38.15
2011      1        4 X              27.75        3.6U       31.36
2812      1          1              28.86        3.75       32.61
2013      1          1              38.02        3.90       33.91
2014      I          1              31.22        4.35       35.27
2015    4 .          1              32.47        4.21       36.68
2816    3.5 %        1              33.68        4.38       37.99
2817      1                         34.78        4.56       39.34
2018      1          1              36.00        4.74       48.74
2019      1                         37.26        4.93       42.19
2028      1         4:              38.56        5.13       43.69
2821      1       3.5 X             39.91        5.31       45.22
2022      1          1              41.31        5.49       46. g
2823      1          1              42.75        5.68       48.44
2324      1          1              44.25        5.88       56.13
2625    3.5 x        1              45.86        6.89       51.89
2826^2834    4 X      3.5 1             47.17        6.38       53.48
AVERAGE                              28.85        3.76        32.61
TOTAL                              1,442.65      187.89    1.638.54



68
Appendix 24. ECONOMIC REANALASIS FOR THE CHiL'NG JU MULTI-PURPOSE PROJECT
UNIT: US S MILLION
COSTS                                BENEFITS
CAPITAL O.U & R    TOTAL   POWER    U & I IRRIGATION   FLOOD    TOTAL
1     1978    2.50              2.50                                           8..u
2     1979    1.20               1.20                                           0.8.
3     1980   27.78             27-70                                            6.68
4     1981   67.76             67.7?                                            0.30
5     1982  102.90             102.96                                           6.O0
6     1983  191.90             191.96                                           0.66
7     1984  124.86             124.89                                           O.80
8     1985   69-20    4.38      73.58    73-81                        9.15    82.17
9     1986            4.38      4.38    73.01      1.25      6.38     9.62    84-26
I1     1987            4.38      4.38    73.01      2.54      6.75    I.II   86.42
11     1988            4.38      4.38    73.61      3.82      '.13    10.63    88.59
12     1989            4.38      4.38    73.01      6.53      1.51    11.17  - 92.22
13    1996             4.38      4.38    73-.1      8.25      1.88    11.74    94.88
14    1991             4.38      4.38    73.61      9.84      2.26    12.34    97.45
iS     1992            4.38      4.38    73.61    11-44       2.64    12.97   160.66
16     1993            4.38      4.38    73.81    13.64       3.91    13.63   102.69
17     1994            4.38      4.38    73.51    14-63       3.39    14-32   185.36
18     1995            4.38      4.38    73.91    16-23       3.77    15-.5   168-.6
19    1996             4.38      4.38    73.81    17-87       4.14    15.82   110-86
2O     1997            4.38      4.38    73.81    19.52       4.52    16.63   113.69
21     1998            4.38      4.38    73.81    21.17       4.98    17.48   116.56
22     1999            4.38      4.38    73.81    22-81       5.27    18.37   119.48
23     2008            4.38      4.38    73.81    24-46       5.65    19.31   122-44
24     2081            4.38      4.38    73.61    26.37       6.83    20.28   125.69
25     2002            4.38      4.38    73.81    28-28       6.40    21.29   128-99
26     2683            4.38      4.38    73.01    36-19       6.78    22.36   132.35
27     2064            4.38      4.38    73.81    32-16       7.16    23.47   135.75
28     2085            4.38      4.38    73.81    34.02       7.54    24.65   139-21
29     2086            4.38      4.38    73.Q1    36.87       7.91    25.66   143-46
36     2607            4.38      4.38    73.01    39.72       8.29    26.72   147.74
31     2808            4.38      4.38    73.01    42.57       8.67    27.81   152.07
32     2069            4.38      4.38    73.81    42.57       8.67    28.96   153.21
33     2010            4.38      4.38    73.91    42.57       8.67    36.15   154.46
34     2011            4.38      4.38    73.81    42.57       8.67    31-36   155.61
35     2612            4.38      4.38    73.81    42.57       8.67    32.61   156.86
36     2813            4.38      4.38    73.61    42.57       8.67    33.91   158.17
37     2614            4.38      4.38    73-.1    42.57       8.67    35.27   159.52
38-57 2615-2034          4.38      4.38    73.81    42.57       8.67    36.68   169.94
AVERAGE               4.38      14.15    73.81    32.05      6.72    33.09   144.87
TOTAL      587.90  218.84    886.74 3.651.68 1.576.47    329.29 1.638.54 7.180.98
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  -   13.91%



69
Appendix 25. RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY TEST ( CASE. 1
UNIT : US S MILLION
COSTS                                 BENEFI TS
YEAR       -------
CAPITAL 0.K & R    TOTAL    POWER       N & I IRRICATION   FWOOD       OTAL
1     1978    2.58              2.58                                              g. t
2     1979    1.20               1.20                                             8.39
3     1988   27.70             27.79                                              o.ao
4     1981   67.78             67.78                                              0.30
5     1982  102.99             102.90                                             6. rn
6     1983  191.98            191.98                                              0.3O
7     1984  124.89             124.80                                             0.30
6     1985   69.28    4.38    73.58    73.01                             9.15    8Z.17
9     1988             4.38     4.38    73.81        1.25      8.54      9.62    84.42
1I     1967             4.38     4.38    73.91       4.80       1.88    18.11    88.21
11     1988            4.38      4.38    73.81       6.76       1.62    10.63  _ 92.82
12     1989            4.38      4.38    73.81       9.51       2.17    11.17    95.86
13     1990            4.38      4.38    73.81      12.27       2.71    11.74    99.73
i4     1991            4.38      4.38    73.01      15.82       3.25    12.34   103.62
15     1992            4.38      4.38    73.81      17.78       3.79    12.97   187.55
16     1993            4.38      4.38    73.01      28.53       4.33    13.63   111.51
17     1994            4.38      4.38    73.81      23.29       4.87    14.32   115.59
18     1995            4.38      4.38    73.01      26.84       5.42    15.35   119.53
19     1996            4.38      4.38    73.81      28.80       5.96    15.82   123.59
28     1997             4.38     4.38    73.81      31.55       8.50    16.63   127.70
21     1998             4.38     4.38    73.81      34.31       7.84    17.48   131.84
22     1999             4.38     4.38    73.81      37.86       7.58    18.37   136.a3
23     2088             4.38     4.38    73.81      39.82       8.12    19.31   14..27
24     2881             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.87    20.28   144.53
25     2802             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    21.29   145.55
26     2883             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    22.36   146.61
27     2084             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    23.47   147.73
28     28085            4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    24.65   148.39
29     2806             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.87    25.86   149.91
38     2087             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    26.72   150.97
31     2008             4.38     4.38    73.91      42.57       8.67    27.81   152.87
32     2809             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    28.96   153.21
33     2318             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    38.15   154.40
34     2011             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    3!1.36   155.61
35     2812             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.87    32.61   156.86
36     2813             4.38     4.38    73.31      42.57       8.67    33.91   158.17
37     2314             4.38     4.38    73.81      42.57       8.67    35.27   159.52
38^57  2815-2834           4.38     4.38    73.31      42.57       8.67    36.68   168.94
AVERAGE            4.38    14.15    73.01       35.83       7.34    33.89   149.27
TOTAL   587.96  218.84   886.74 3.650.68  1.755-53    359.61 1.531.54 7.396.37
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  -  14.49 :



70
Appeudix 26.   RESuLTS OF SENSITIVITY TEST ( CASE Z
UNIT : US S WIUIdON
COSTS                                 BENEFITS
CAPITAL O.N & R    TOTAL    POWER       M & I IRRIGATION   FLOOD    TOTAL
1     1978    2.58              2.58                                              O.OO
2     1979    1.20              1.20                                              8.O0
3     1980   27.78             27.78                                              o.ao
4     1981   67.70             67.70 8.80
5     1982  102.98             12O.98                                             O.8O
6     1983  191.90            191.90                                              8.80
7     1984  124.80            124.80                                              8.00
8     1985   69.28    4.38    73.58    73.81                             9.15    82.17
9     1986             4.38     4.38    73.81        0.76      8.23      9.62    83.63
I1     1987            4.38      4.38    73-81       1.89       0.46    10.11    85.47
11     1988             4.38     4.38    73.81       3.82       8.68    18.63    87.35-
12     1989             4.38     4.38    73.81       4.15       0.91    11.17    89.25
13     1998             4.38     4.38    73.81       5.28       1.14    11.74    91.18
14     1991            4.38      4.38    73.81       6.41       1.37    12.34    94.13
15     1992            4.38      4.38    73.81       7.54       1.68    12.97    95.12
16     1993            4.38      4.38    73.81       8.67       1.82    13.63    97.14
17     1994            4.38      4.38    73.81       9.80       2.05    14.32    99.19
18     1995            4.38      4.38    73-81      10-93       2.28    15.85   181.28
19     1996             4.38     4.38    73.81      12.86       2.51    15.82   183.41
28     1997             4.38     4.38    73.31       13.19      2.74    16.63   185.58
21     1998             4.38     4.38    73.81       14.32      2.96    17.48   187.78
22     1999             4.38     4.38    73-81       15.45      3.19    18.37   118.83
23     2000             4.38     4.38    73.81       16.58      3.42    19.31   112.33
24     2801             4.38     4.38    73.81       17.71      3.65    20.28   114.S5
25     2002             4.38     4.38    73.81       18.84      3.88    21.29   117.03
26     2003             4.38     4.38    73.81       19.97      4.10    22.36   119.45
27     2004             4.38     4.38    73-81      21.-1       4.33    23.47   121.92
28     2085             4.38     4.38    73.01      22.23       4.56    24.65   124.46
29     2086             4.38     4.38    73.81      23.36       4.79    25.66   126.83
38     2007             4.38     4.38    73.81      24.49       5.82    26.72   129.24
31     2808             4.38     4.38    73.01      25.62       5.24    27.81   131.70
32     2009             4.38     4.38    73.01      26.75       5.47    28.96   134.20
33     2018             4.38     4.38    73.01      27.88       5.78    30.15   136.75
34     2811             4.38     4.38    73.81      29.81       5.93    31.36   139.31
35     2812             4.38     4.38    73.01      38.14       6.16    32.61   141.93
36     2813             4.38     4.38    73.81      31.27       6.39    33.91   144.59
37     231.             4.38     4.38    73.11      32.40       6.61    35.27   147.38
38-57  2115-2834           4.38     4.38    73.31       33.53      6.84    36.68   150.37
AVERAGE             4.38    14.15    73.81      26.36       5.39    33.89   137.86
TOTAL   587.90  218.84   806.74 3.65s.68  1,291.75    264.29 1.638.54 6.S3,.26
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - 13.41 %



