Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2478-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL SITES AND WATER RESOIJRCES DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUiGANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR THE
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
March 2, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornace of
their oflicil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won
US$1            -  Won (W) 485
w 1,000         =  US$2.06
US$ 1 million      W 0.485
W I million    -  US$2.062
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    -       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =       10,000 square meters
2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)             0.386 square miles
=      100 ha
1 cubic meter (cu m)                   35.31 cubic feet
=      1000 liters (1)
3      264.2 U.S. gallons
1 million cubic meters (MCM)           810 acre-feet
1 megawatt (MW)                =       1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                        1,000 volts (v)
1 ton                          =       1,000 kilogram (kg)/2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC        =   Agricultural Development Corporation
DCF            Discounted Cash Flow
ECI        -   Engineering Consultants Inc.
El.        =   Denotes elevation above mean sea level
EDR            Equalizing Discount Rate
EPB        5   Economic Planning Board
ISWACO     -   Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
KDB        =   Korea Development Bank
KECO       -   Korea Electric Company
lpcd       -   Liters per capita per day
MCI        =   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MHSA       =   Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
mill       3   One thousandth of a US dollar
MOC            Ministry of Construction
OECF       -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
USAID      =   United States Agency for International Development
USBR       -   United States Bureau of Reclamation
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
(ISWACO)
Guarantor:      The Republic of Korea
Amount:         $125 million equivalent
Terms:          The loan would be for a term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 7% per annum.
Project
Description:  The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial, and irrigation water in the Han Basin for about
20 years following its completion in 1984. It would also
substantially reduce flood damage, generate an average of
770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project include: a 90 m high concrete dam
across the south Han River; a power plant containing four 115
MW generating units, and associated transmission facilities;
a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam;
relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway;
protectivTe works in the reservoir area including the raising
of an existing embankment of a cement plant and other miscel-
laneous works; implementation of a resettlement program for
some 9,300 families affected by the project; and consulting
services.
A demanding feature of the project in terms of management will
be the timely acquisition of land and property in the reservoir
area, and the prompt payment of compensation. However,
programs of a similar nature in Korea have been undertaken in
the past without serious delays or social problems.
The only significant technical problem could be in implementing
the works required to deal with the geologic conditions of the
dam's right abutment. For this reason, ISWACO has selected as
engineering consultants a firm with considerable experience in
dam design in Korea and elsewhere. Further, ISWACO will also
be advised by a consulting panel which includes an expert in
engineering geology.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total  % foreign
----($ million)----  exchange
Civil works                   78.4   69.6  148.0       47
Gates, guides and hoists        1.1   20.2   21.3       95
Powerhouse equipment           3.4   65.6   69.0        95
Furnished materials            4.3   10.0   14.3        70
Reservoir compensation       109.0      -   109.0        -
Consultants                    1.4    5.6    7.0       80
Engineering & admin.          18.0    2.0   20.0        10
Base cost estimate           215.6  173.0  388.6       44
Physical contingencies        14.4   18.5   32.9       56
Price contingencies           44.0   44.5   88.5       50
Total                   274.0  236.0  510.0       46
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign  Total       _Z
…---- a million -----
Proposed Bank Loan          -    125.0   125.0       24.5
Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund
(OECF), Japan            -      70.0    70.0       13.7
Government                274.0   41.0   315.0       61.8
Total               274.0  236.0   510.0    100.0
Disbursements:        Bank FY            1980  1981  1982  1983   1984   1985
--------------$ million ------------
Annual             9.8  22.7  30.3  28.4   23.5   10.3
Cumulative         9.8  32.5  62.8  91.2  114.7  125.0
Rate of Return:       A minimum of 12% based on the current level of tariffs
for power and water supply.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 1932a-KO dated February 21, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOtIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL SITES AND WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR
___  THE CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO),
with the guarantee of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $125 mil-
lion to help finance the Chungju Multipurpose Project in the South Han Basin,
about 110 km southeast of Seoul. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7% per annum. The Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan is providing a loan of Yen 14 billion ($70
million) to cover part of the cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Growth and Prospects of the Korean
Economy") was distributed under cover of SECM77-158, dated March 4, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Korea's economic position at the commencement of the Fourth Plan
period (1977-81) was stronger than ever before. Despite the balance of pay-
ments difficulties of 1974 and 1975 and a much less favorable international
economic environment than expected, most of the economic objectives set in
the Third Plan (1972-76) were achieved. The economy has shown continued
strength since the commencement of the Fourth Plan period. The exports and
balance of payments targets for 1977 were realized. The rate of growth of
GNP in real terms was 10.3% (as compared with the annual average of 9.2%
postulated in the Plan), and per capita income in current dollars rose from
$700 in 1976 to $864 in 1977. Export value increased by about 29% (albeit at
a considerably lower rate than the 56% registered in 1976), and exceeded the
target of $10,000 million. Continued success was achieved in diversifying
the markets for, and composition of, Korean exports. Although there was a
trade deficit of $477 million, resulting from a 25% increase in imports, net
receipts from services ($266 million) and net transfers of about $223 million
offset this deficit and resulted in a current account surplus of $12 million,
as compared with a deficit of $314 million in 1976. The rapid improvement in
the balance of payments was the result of a substantial improvement in the
/1 This section is similar to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Fourth Highway Project (No. 2421-KO) dated November 29,
1978, which was approved on December 14, 1978.



- 2 -
terms of trade, due in part to quality improvements, and the sharp increase
in the earnings from construction contracts abroad. Furthermore, net trans-
fers averaged nearly $300 million during 1976-77. The net gain from all
these factors, together with the increase in tourism receipts, was nearly
equivalent to the total of the current account deficits in 1974 and 1975.
4.        Although price increases averaged about 10% in 1977, due, in part,
to the continued stability of import prices and, in part, to the success of
anti-inflation policies, including price controls, inflationary pressures
began to accelerate again during the second half of 1977 and persisted
in 1978. The Government has tended to view this as being mainly the result
of the high rate of growth of the money supply caused almost entirely by the
large inflows of foreign exchange earnings, especially from construction
contracts abroad. In response to this view of the inflation problem, the
Government has attempted to reduce the net inflow of foreign exchange by
inducing more cash imports and reducing credit imports, and by neutralizing
the possible monetary impact of some of the foreign exchange earnings
through various monetary measures. Furthermore, the Government adopted
wide ranging import liberalization measures in 1978. In addition, interest
rate adjustments have been made, the most recent being the raising of deposit
and loan rates in June 1978 in an attempt to reduce the prevailing excess
demand and dampen inflationary pressures.
5.        According to preliminary data, in 1978 there were nominal increases
of 27% and 39% in the values of exports and imports, respectively. The
resulting trade deficit of about $1,900 million was partially offset by a
surplus in the invisibles account of about $870 million (including net
transfers), leaving a current account deficit of some $1,000 million. Net
inflows of medium- and long-term capital would be about $1,900 million and,
in spite of the substantial repayment of some of Korea's short-term debt,
Korea's gross holdings of foreign exchange was augmented by an estimated $615
million in 1978. The outlook for 1979 is for a continued high growth of
exports and imports and a gross level of capital inflow of about $3,000
million, including an allowance for an increase in reserves to about $6,000
million, or about four months of imports, a level considered prudent in view
of Korea's trade dependency.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
6.        The preparation of the Fourth Plan (1977-81) afforded an opportu-
nity for a comprehensive review of Korea's economic problems, prospects and
priorities. Korea's longer-term goals as specified in the Plan are "growth
with enhanced self-sufficiency" and "greater equity and social development."
The firm intention of the Government as stated in the Plan is to achieve a
maximum rate of growth consistent with a sound balance of payments and also
with the maintenance of internal price stability. National savings are
expected to finance as much as 92% of total investment as compared with
about 72% in the Third Plan period (1972-76).
7.        Growth and stability are not the only objectives.  Enhanced equity
and greater social development are also of importance in the Korean plans.



- 3 -
The main emphasis is on achieving a wider distribution of the benefits of
growth. Health outlays will increase as a proportion of total investment
with special stress on preventive care and an innovative health delivery
system to service low-income families, particularly in the rural areas.
Rural incomes are expected to increase as a result of greater agricultural
productivity and diversification and of increased opportunities for non-farm
employment primarily through the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement and
small industries development, and also because of increasing construction
activities in the rural areas. The quality of life in these areas is to be
further enhanced by the provision of additional infrastructure facilities.
8.        The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed so
successfully since the mid-sixties. The Fourth Plan postulates an annual
rate of increase of exports of 16% in real terms, and a real growth rate of
14% per year will be required during the rest of the Plan period if the
target is to be met. The ratio of commodity exports to GNP is expected to
rise from the level of about 30% in 1976 to about 42% in 1981, with the
manufacturing sector providing about 90% of total commodities. This demands
the achievement of continuous gains in efficiency and productivity, further
success in diversifying both exports and markets and the maintenance of a
favorable domestic policy environment. More than half of Korea's manufactured
goods still consist of textiles, garments, electronics and footwear, but
clearly Korea's comparative advantage is starting to shift from unskilled
labor-intensive items to more capital- and skill-intensive products.
Although not a critical factor at present, Korea will in future face increas-
ingly severe competition from the less industrially advanced countries which
are more amply endowed with natural resources and where unskilled labor is
cheaper. Furthermore, Korea is beginning to experience constraints on the
expansion of several traditional manufactured exports due to its already
dominant position in some cases (e.g., plywood) and due, in other cases, to
the trade restrictions imposed by some developed countries (e.g., textiles
and footwear).
9.        A changing pattern of exports reflecting and responding to shifting
comparative advantage is, therefore, essential for sustained export expansion.
Korean planners are conscious of the need to effect structural changes in ex-
ports and industrial output and are focusing on electronics and machinery
to achieve this. The achievement of the targets set for the export of
electronics, machinery and other capital goods generally requires a concerted
effort on a number of fronts. As the World Development Report points
out, the essential problems in expanding these exports are technological and
organizational. Action is required to bring about the assimilation or
learning of new technology, its adaptation to local needs and conditions,
technology innovation, the rationalization of production processes, quality
improvement and market development, including the provision of export
credits on a significant scale if market penetration in the less developed
countries is to succeed.
10.       In the Korean context, the continued high rate of growth of the
economy is essential, since significant progress toward the basic equity



- 4 -
goals of improved income distribution and reduced poverty could be more
easily affordable when the growth of incomes is high. The predominant role
the export sector is expected to play is appropriate in view of Korea's
limited natural resources. Moreover, Korea has the manpower and the entrepre-
neurial capacity to implement the Plan's investment programs. The Fourth
Plan's priorities, strategy and programs, therefore, remain appropriate. The
Plan strikes a reasonable balance between the various objectives of increas-
ing employment, maintaining a minimum growth of per capita incomes, strength-
ening the balance of payments and making progress towards diversifying the
industrial structure so as to sustain export growth in the 1980s.
11.       Notwithstanding the efforts being made to increase the mobilization
of domestic resources, Korea will continue to need sizeable gross capital in-
flows. It is estimated that foreign capital commitments of about $3,000 mil-
lion would be required annually over the next several years. While Korea is
extending its use of commercial financing from the traditional suppliers and
private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans and bond issues in the
Euro-bond and Asia bond markets, the magnitude of its external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources, including Eximbanks. Servicing
of the debt should not pose serious difficulties given the present debt
service ratio and the prospects for continued export growth, provided that
the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. On the assumption that Korea can obtain the required
inflow of capital on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio which now
stands at just over 10% is expected to remain at 10-11% until the end of the
decade and decline slowly thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of December 31, 1978, Korea had received 41 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,247.5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$783.6 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.



- 5 -
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through our lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Medium Industry Bank
(now called the "Small and Medium Industry Bank") $85 million in Bank
loans for relending to private industry. This has resulted not only in the
overall development of the industrial sector, but has also contributed to the
achievement of institutional improvements and of the Government's objective
of decentralizing industry. The loan of $80 million for a Heavy Machinery
Project was intended to assist in achieving the structural shift to more
skill-intensive industries, which is necessary to ensure the long-term
viability of Korea's export strategy.
15.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industrializa-
tion has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
effort to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been
provided for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity
and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been
made for highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the
national network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two
loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port
facilities at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving
coal handling facilities.
16.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy has resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
17.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen
agricultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in
the country becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily
on agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas.



18.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO) has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region.
19.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had by
December 31, 1978, entered into 21 commitments totalling $70.0 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
20.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
assist it in sustaining its growth momentum. The basic issue in this connec-
tion is whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to
the extent necessary to ensure that it attains its export targets. Lending
to industry will be diversified by the provision of a loan for a second
machinery project which will provide financial and technical assistance to
small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to
introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs
of industrial development. In addition to a proposed loan for an electronics
technology project, a project for the technological development of technology
intensive industries is envisaged in the program.
21.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements
of the economy is, therefore, proposed.
22.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing
and for the further development of rural infrastructure.
23.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural
sectors and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent
infrastructural development. Although the transport sector will be given
less emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus
there is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
24.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 11%, and the share of
debt service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are
expected to increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the end of the
present decade.



- 7 -
PART III - THE POWER AND WATER SECTORS
Multipurpose Basin Development
25.       The drainage basins of Korea's four largest rivers, the Han,
Nakdong, Geum and Yong San, account for nearly two-thirds of Korea's land
area. Because of Korea's mountainous terrain, most of its major cities and
industries as well as much of its best agricultural land lie along these
major rivers and depend on them for their water. Korea has the advantage
that an unusually high proportion of its annual precipitation, nearly 50%,
appears as surface water runoff. However, this advantage is offset by
Korea's high population density of about 350/sq km with the result that
annual surface water runoff per capita is about 2,100 cu m compared to
4,300 cu m for Japan and 13,100 cu m for the USA. In addition to the low per
capita availability of water, the runoff is unevenly distributed with less
than 20% of the annual runoff occurring in the six-month dry season (October
through March).
26.       The first steps toward multipurpose basin development in Korea were
taken in the 1960s when it became apparent that the water demands of the
cities, industries and farms would soon exceed the unregulated dry season flow
of the major rivers. Also, with the rapid urban and industrial development,
and more intensive cultivation of the farmlands, the consequences of floods
had become much more serious during the three months - July, August and
September - when the rivers carry 65% of the annual runoff. Recognizing also
the large untapped hydroelectric potential of these river basins, the Govern-
ment commissioned the preparation of multipurpose development plans for each
of Korea's four major river basins.
27.       A study of the Han River Basin, financed by USAID, was carried out
between 1965 and 1971 by the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR).
This study confirmed the need for the Soyang Multipurpose Project which was
subsequently completed in 1973. An important finding of the study was that
additional storage would be needed in the Basin by the mid-1980s and that
this requirement would be best satisfied by construction of the Chungju
Project. A study of the Nakdong Basin was financed by the United Nations
Development Programme with the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) as
executing agency. The first phase of this study, which began in 1960, recom-
mended early implementation of the Andong Multipurpose Project on the upper
reaches of the Nakdong River. This project was completed in 1976 with finan-
cial assistance from the Asian Development Bank. Recent studies have shown
that a barrage across the mouth of the Nakdong River will be needed by 1985 to
meet the growing industrial and urban demands in the Nakdong Delta, including
Busan, Korea's second largest city.   A study of the Geum Basin was carried
out in 1972, and a key element in the basin plan, the Daechung Dam, is now
under construction and will be completed in 1980. A further possibility for
development of the Geum River, an estuary dam near the mouth of the river, has
been investigated under the Bank-financed Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO). This
dam would provide water for urban, industrial and irrigation use in areas



outside the basin. Stage I of a development plan for the Yong San Gang Basin,
prepared by government agencies, consisting of four storage dams and related
irrigation systems, was financed by the Bank (Yong San Gang Project, Stage I,
Loan/Credit 795/283-KO) and was completed in 1978. Work on a second stage of
the basin's development also financed by the Bank (Yong San Gang Project,
Stage II, Loan 1364-KO) has recently begun. This comprises a dam across the
estuary of the Yong San River, reclamation of tidal land, and irrigation of a
large area of presently cultivated land.
28.       The Ministry of Construction (MOC) has jurisdiction over the
development and use of water resources throughout Korea. Multipurpose
projects are constructed, operated and maintained by the Industrial Sites and
Water Resources Development Corporation (ISWACO), a semi-autonomous corporation
under MOC. The Agriculture Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, has authority to
construct dams for irrigation and reclamation of agricultural land.
The Power Sector
29.       Korea's consumption of electrical energy in 1978 showed a sixfold
increase over 1968, an average annual growth of almost 20%. Per capita use
in 1978 was 725 kWh, compared with over 6,000 kllh for a highly industrialized
country such as Japan and 840 kwh for a developing country such as Brazil.
Industry accounts for some 80% of total consumption. About 95% of the urban
population has access to electricity, and through a vigorous rural electri-
fication program some 90% of the rural population will be served by 1981.
Over the next ten years, annual growth in demand is expected to decline from
15% in 1978 to 12% in the mid-1980s. Peak demand in 1986 is estimated to
reach 13,400 MW compared to 5,300 MW in 1978.
30.       Indigenous resources for power generation in Korea are small
compared to future demands. Hydroelectric development, usually in combina-
tion with other purposes such as flood control and water supply, is a com-
petitive source of peaking capacity; however, the total potential is about
1,500 MW of which nearly 50% has already been developed. Coal reserves
consist of anthracite which, because of its low heating value, has to be
usea together with fuel oil. These coal reserves are an important source of
home heating fuel but are unlikely to be a significant source of fuel for
power generation in the future. Oil exploration, which has been going on for
several years, has yet to yield commercially significant discoveries.
Korea's tidal power potential is still under study. In order to diversify
its sources of imported fuel needed to meet the bulk of future demands,
Korea's long-range power program consists of a mix of oil-fired thermal,
coal-fired thermal, and nuclear plants. Future plans also include continued
development of hydroelectric resources as well as some pumped-storage instal-
lations. Korea's first nuclear power plant (600 MW) was commissioned
in 1978, and four 600 MW units are under construction and two 900 MW units
are in the design stage. The Korea Electric Company (KECO), formed in 1961
through a merger of three smaller power companies, has the primary responsi-
bility for power generation, transmission and distribution. As of June 30,
1978, about 62% of KECO's capital stock was owned by the Government and the



- 9 -
balance by private shareholders. The Ministry of Energy and Resources
supervises KECO's activities, exercises the Government's rights as a major
stockholder and recommends action on electricity rates. KECO presently owns
and operates 88% of Korea's installed capacity. It purchases the output from
a 300 MW privately-owned thermal plant and also from 300 MW of hydroelectric
capacity at multipurpose projects owned and operated by ISWACO.
31.       The overall performance of KECO has been impressive in maintain-
ing a dependable electricity supply during a period in which demand has
doubled every four years. However, in the early 1970s, the financial
performance of KECO deteriorated considerably. It reached a critical stage
in 1974 when the rate of return on average net fixed assets dropped to 4.5%
and the debt service coverage dropped to 0.9. The main reasons for this
were the temporary overinvestment in generation facilities, delays in adjust-
ing tariffs to reflect a sharp rise in oil prices, and short-term borrowing
at high interest rates. However, subsequent tariff increases of 61.7% in
1975, and 14.2% in 1976 improved KECO's financial performance resulting in a
rate of return of 8.6% in 1976. Tariffs were increased 11.3% in 1977 and
12.1% in 1978 and the Government intends to allow future increases in tariffs
to ensure a return of 9% on KECO's rate base, which would result in approx-
imately a 10.5% rate of return on average net fixed assets.
32.       Bank financing has assisted Korea's rural electrification program;
$18.1 million toward the cost of providing electricity to over 6,000 villages
were earmarked from the proceeds of Loan 1216-KO and 1218T-KO which helped
finance the Rural Infrastructure Project I. Also, under the Kyongju Tourism
Project (Loan 953-KO), electrical facilities are being installed for the
resort area and some of the neighboring villages.
The Water Supply Sector
33.       About 55% of Korea's population is served by piped water systems
compared to 22% ten years ago. Service ratios range from 90% in Seoul
and other major cities to 30% in the smaller urban centers. In the rural
areas, a major government program to construct simple and inexpensive systems
has brought piped water to over 40% of the villagers in communities of
over 20 households. However, in the rural towns (population - 1,000 to
20,000) the service ratio averages only about 5%. This is because these
towns are too large for the type of systems installed in the villages and
too small to support the more complex and costly systems adopted in the urban
centers. Over the next five years, the Government aims to increase the
percentage of the total population with piped water to 60%. The service
ratio will be raised to 100% in the six largest cities, and to over 20% in
the rural towns. Continued construction of small community systems is
expected to bring piped water to about 75% of the village population.
34.       Water produced by the municipal systems in the urban centers
averages about 170 liters/capita/day (lcd), with production in major
cities such as Seoul, Busan and Incheon of the order of 200 lcd. Water
sold accounts for about 60% of water produced in most urban centers. The
high percentage of unaccounted for water, a characteristic of large and



- 10 -
rapidly expanding systems in developing countries, is gradually being reduced
through leak detection and inspection programs. The rural systems are
reasonably efficient because of their small size and limited possibilities
for leakage, and consumption is of the order of 80 to 100 lcd. In 1978, the
total volume of water produced by municipal and industrial systems amounted
to 3,800 MCM of which about 90% was from surface water and the remainder
from groundwater.
35.       The ministries concerned with the water supply sector are the
Ministry of Construction (MOC) and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
(MHSA). MOC has responsibility for all municipal and industrial water
supply facilities. Planning is handled by MOC's Housing and Urban Planning
Bureau and its Industrial Water Bureau. Construction services are provided
by Regional Construction Bureaus in each of the nine provinces. Some of
the major cities have developed their own capabilities for planning and
construction management of municipal water systems, and ISWACO has planned
and executed some municipal and industrial water systems in connection with
industrial site development. However, the activities of the municipalities
and ISWACO are subject to the review and approval of MOC. System operation
and maintenance is the responsibility of the local authorities in the urban
and industrial centers. MHSA, through its Environmental Health Bureau is
responsible for rural water systems and establishes policy guidelines,
allocates funds, and monitors construction. Planning and design are carried
out by county construction divisions subject to review by the provincial
administrations.
36.       Water tariffs in Korea are reviewed and approved by the Economic
Planning Board (EPB) through its Price Control Division. At present,tariffs /
are based on a standard formula developed by EPB in which operation and
maintenance costs and principal and interest payments on loans are taken
into account. In the future, EPB plans to revise water tariffs to obtain a 7%
rate of return on investments after covering operating and maintenance expen-
ses and depreciation. The present tariffs, although increasing almost annually,
have remained low. For domestic and commercial consumers, average tariffs
charged by municipal systems range from W 25 ($0.05) to W 60 ($0.12) per cu m.
Rates for bulk supply to industrial areas vary according to the public invest-
ment in intake and treatment facilities. Industries drawing water directly from
a river pay about W 4 ($0.01) per cu m but the rate from government systems
in some cases is as high as W 30 ($0.06). A study by the Asian Development
Bank indicates that present tariffs would have to be increased from 1.3 to
2.6 times to achieve a 7% return on investments and to cover depreciation.
37.       Bank lending for water supply has so far been concentrated in
the rural sector. Rural Infrastructure Project I (Loans 1216-KO and 1218T-KO)
provided $5.4 million toward the financing of piped water supply systems in
4,073 villages, which were completed in 1977. Rural Infrastructure Project II
(Loan 1530-KO) provides $21.8 million towards financing of 7,400 village
water supply systems.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled, "Korea - the Chungju Multipurpose
Project" (No. 1932a-KO, dated February 21, 1979) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. The proposed project
was appraised in October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from
October 16 to 20, 1978 with a Korean delegation led by Mr. Sung Yong Wei,
Deputy Director General, Bureau of Economic Cooperation, Economic Planning
Board.
39.       The proposed project would meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial, and irrigation water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984. It would also substantially reduce flood damage,
generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW
of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
project are:
(a) a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han River;
(b) a power plant at the toe of the dam on the right bank containing
four 115 MI generating units and associated transmission facilities;
(c) a reregulating dam on the South Han about 20 km downstream
of the main dam;
(d) relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway;
(e) protective works in the reservoir area including the raising
of an existing embankment of a cement plant, and miscellaneous
works to ensure continued operation of a talc mine;
(f) implementation of a reservoir resettlement program including
compensation of some 9,300 families for land and property,
and assistance in their resettlement; and
(g) consulting services.
Project Area
40.       The Han River Basin.  The Han Basin (Map IBRD 13282) covers
26,200 sq km, or 26% of Korea's land area, and contains nearly one-third of
Korea's population of 36.5 million. The Han River system consists of two main
branches, the North Han and South Han, which join about 35 km upstream from
Seoul to form the Lower Han which flows through Seoul to the Yellow Sea.
Besides the capital city of Seoul with its population of 7.3 million, the port
of Incheon (population 1.2 million) and the cities of Suweon and Anyang are
dependent on the Han River for municipal and industrial water. The industries
of the Han Basin, of which the greatest concentration is in the Seoul-Incheon
area, account for nearly 50% of Korea's industrial production. Because of its



- 12 -
rugged terrain only 370,000 ha, or 15% of the Basin, is cultivated and this
area accounts for 18% of Korea's cultivated land. About 140,000 ha is presently
irrigated from the Han River and its tributaries.
41.       Over the past few years, rapid growth in population, industries and
irrigation has led to a fourfold increase in water use. Continued growth in
water demand at an annual rate of at least 6% is projected into the 1990s.
In addition to this demand, a significant flow has to be maintained in the
Lower Han, below Seoul, to prevent salinity intrusion and to dilute industrial
and municipal wastes discharged into the river. The Han River has been, and
will continue to be, the main source of water for the Basin's cities, indus-
tries and farms. Floods occur every year in the Han Basin and about once in
every four years the floods cause widespread damage to property and crops.
The Basin's second highest recorded flood occurred as recently as August 1972
and caused damage estimated at $25 million. Finally, the control of the
Basin's water resources will lead to development of hydroelectric power and
help to meet Korea's rapidly growing power demands.
Detailed Features of the Project
Dam and Powerhouse
42.       The dam site is on the South Han about 110 km southeast of Seoul.
The city of Chungju (population 110,000) is 6 km from the dam site. The
bedrock at the dam site is a suitable foundation for a concrete dam.
However, there is an extensive slide area on the right bank overlying the
bedrock. Excavation for the dam and powerhouse could create the potential
for a landslide. Studies by the consultants and a detailed review by the
consulting panel have led to the conclusion that a stable condition will
require extensive excavation of the slide material. It is estimated that
about 4 million cu m of slide material would have to be removed. The
concrete gravity dam would have a length of 450 m and a maximum height of
90 m and would contain about 900,000 cubic meters of concrete. The spillway
section in the center of the dam would have five 22 m high by 15 m wide
radial gates. On the right bank, the dam would contain power intakes serving
four 115 MW generating units in a surface powerhouse immediately downstream.
During the construction, cofferdams would be built upstream and downstream of
the dam and river flow would be diverted through two 12 m diameter concrete
lined tunnels an the left bank. The cofferdams would be designed to withstand
overtopping during major floods in the wet season.
Reregulation Dam
43.       During the dry season, the outflow from the Chungju reservoir will be
released through the power plant for two or three hours each day. Thus, without
provision for reregulation of these releases, there would be wide fluctuations
in the flow of the South Han. The reregulation dam, located 20 km downstream
of the Chungju Dam, would store the daily inflow and release a uniform flow to
the river. The dam would consist of a gate-controlled concrete weir about 340 m
long and 8 m high.



- 13 -
Road and Rail Relocation
44.       Sections of two highways totalling 100 km, including bridges with a
total length of 1,600 m, would require relocation in the reservoir area. The
railroad connecting Seoul to Busan also passes through the reservoir area.
About 10 km of track would have to be relocated, including eight tunnels with
a total length of 930 m and eleven bridges with a total length of 500 m.  Also
a new 400 m span rail bridge across the South Ran would be needed.
Protective Works
45.       An existing flood protection dike surrounding the Sungjin Cement
Plant would be raised by one meter to protect the plant during short periods
when the reservoir level rises above its normal level of El. 140.5 for flood
control. Works at the Danyang Talc mine would include sealing of low level
entrances and opening a new entrance at El. 168. A retaining wall about 20 m
high and 130 m long would be built to retain the tailings from the mine and
prevent the mine wastes from polluting the reservoir.
Reservoir Resettlement Program
46.       Compensation for Land and Property.  The area which would be
inundated by a reservoir created by the proposed dam has a population of
51,000 (some 9,300 families). Of these, 8,300 farm families own 6,320 ha of
cultivated land, of which 3,720 ha is within the reservoir area. These
families living in the reservoir area would be required to relocate and the
3,720 ha of cultivated land affected would be acquired by the Government.
The total cost of land and property acquisition and other forms of compensation
is estimated at $109 million, exclusive of price contingencies. A major part
of this cost would be paid to the 8,300 farm families as compensation for the
portion of their landholdings in the reservoir area. Payments for land
would average $25,000/ha for paddy land and $16,000/ha for cultivated
upland. Additional compensation would be paid for established tree crops.
Each family, whether landowning or not, would receive removal and subsistence
payments of about $220. The average payment per farm household would be
about $12,800 in 1979 prices.
47.       In recent years, government agencies and local authorities in
Korea have gained considerable experience in land and property acquisition.
Since 1967, some 100,000 ha of farmland have been acquired to make way for
public works projects and industrial and urban development. The loss of
land has been more than offset by considerable growth in employment in the
industrial and service sectors. The Government's policy is to pay market
prices for land and property together with removal expenses and subsistence
payments during relocation. People displaced from their land make their own
decisions as to where to relocate and whether or not to resume their former
occupations. In Korea, a strategy of prompt and fair compensation is pre-
ferred by the Government and the families affected to resettlement in areas
set aside by the Government. This approach recognizes the independence and
resourcefulness of the average Korean. It also recognizes that nearly every



- 14 -
Korean has a widespread personal network of kinship ties that can be extremely
useful in enabling displaced families to resettle in other communities.
48.       A survey of land and property to form a basis for planning a compen-
sation program is being carried out by ISWACO in cooperation with local
authorities. This will update the information obtained from the 1976 survey.
It has been agreed that ISWACO would, by December 31, 1979, submit to the Bank
for review and comment a report presenting the results of this survey,
together with a timetable for the acquisition of property and for the payment
of compensation (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, a
study is being carried out by a local research institute to help ISWACO
develop a comprehensive compensation program. The institute will survey
experience of people previously relocated from other reservoir areas. It
will also conduct a socio-economic census of the Chungju reservoir inhabitants
and obtain their views on future ambitions regarding location and type of
work. On the basis of these surveys, the study will recommend resettlement/
compensation methods for different income groups and occupations. In order
to widen the opportunities for farmers to purchase land with their compensation
payments, the Government gives displaced farmers priority in the purchase of
land in government-sponsored tidal reclamation projects. The ongoing Bank-
financed Yong San Gang Project, Stage II (Loan 1364-KO) includes 5,500 ha of
tidal land which will be reclaimed between 1980 and 1983. It has been agreed
that the Government would give farmers displaced by the Chungju Project
priority for purchase of reclaimed tidal land, including such land in Yong San
Gang Stage II (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). All land
below El. 145 would be acquired by the Government, but about 600 ha of land
in the draw-down zone between El. 145 and El. 138 would not be inundated
until the end of July of each year at the earliest. It has been agreed that,
by June 30, 1981, ISWACO would present to the Bank for review and comment a
detailed proposal for the allocation to displaced farm families of land in
the draw-down zone of the reservoir (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Consultants
49.       Consulting services for project design and supervision are being
financed by OECF. Nippon Koei, a Japanese firm, in association with Saman
Engineering of Korea was selected to provide such services. Nippon Koei has
wide experience in the engineering of major hydro-electric projects in Korea
and elsewhere. The estimated cost of the consulting services is $5.3 mil-
lion. Average billing rates per man-month are $9,100 for expatriate staff
and $2,500 for Korean staff. ISWACO will assign staff to work closely with
the consultants in all aspects of project implementation, and will provide
the majority of the field inspection staff. The consultants will, where
necessary, make arrangements for on-the-job training of ISWACO staff. Further,
ISWACO has appointed a consulting panel to advise its management in the
review and approval of the consultants' designs and on any special technical
problems encountered in the design and construction of the project. As
presently constituted, the panel consists of a concrete dam design expert,
an engineering geologist, and a concrete technologist. The panel met twice
in 1978, and during project implementation will visit Korea about twice a



- 15 -
year for periods of about one to two weeks. Other specialists may be retained
if necessary. Provision is also being made for consulting services for
preconstruction engineering for the Nakdong Barrage Project, the next phase
in the development of the Nakdong River Basin.
Status of Designs
50.       Feasibility designs and draft contract documents were prepared
in January 1977 by Engineering Consultants, Inc. (ECI) of Denver, USA,
who were retained by ISWACO in 1976. The designs have been reviewed by the
project consultants, Nippon Koei, and a report on their findings, including
an up-dated cost estimate, was submitted to ISWACO in May 1978. This was
reviewed by the consulting panel prior to the consultants finalizing the
bid documents and completing their final report on designs and cost estimates.
A survey of land, property, and infrastructure in the reservoir area was
carried out in 1976 in the course of the feasibility study to provide a
basis for cost estimates. As indicated in paragraph 48, more detailed survey
to form a basis for land and property acquisition and for payment of compen-
sation is being undertaken by ISWACO and the provincial authorities.
Construction Schedule
51.       The project would be implemented over a period of six years.
Preliminary works have commenced and construction of the main civil works
would begin in August 1979. Construction of the diversion tunnels and cofferdams
would be completed in time to divert the river by December 1981. The construc-
tion of the dam, including installation of spillway gates, would be completed
in early 1984. Construction of the powerhouse would be completed by December
1982. The four generating units would be installed over a 24-month period,
beginning in January 1983. The reregulating dam would be constructed over a
three-year period, beginning in October 1981.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost is estimated at $510 million, of which
$236 million, or 46%, is foreign exchange. The foreign exchange component
reflects the large volume of excavation and concrete for which much of the
equipment and fuel will be imported, and also the fact that the turbine and
generators will be imported. Physical contingencies of 15% have been applied
to civil works and materials, and 10% to equipment costs. Expected price
increases over the implementation period amount to 17% of total project costs
and assume the following annual rates of price escalation: civil works and
services 9% in 1979, 8% in 1980 and 7% in 1981-85; equipment and materials
7% in 1979 and 6% in 1980-85; and land and property acquisition 10% in 1979,
9% in 1980 and 8% in 1980-85. The proposed Bank loan of $125 million would
finance 53% of the foreign exchange requirement of $236 million. An OECF
loan of Yen 14 billion ($70 million equivalent) would finance 30% of the
foreign exchange requirement. Further financing would be needed in the
amount of approximately $20 million for the supply and installation of one
generating unit (Unit 4) which is not covered by the above loans. It has
been agreed that the Government would arrange to provide ISWACO with such



- 16 -
financing by June 30, 1980 (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment). The estimated balance of project costs of W 143 billion ($295 million)
would be met by annual Government budgetary allocations. Detailed cost
estimates and the financing plan are given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Procurement
53.       Contracts for construction of the main dam, power plant, reregu-
lation dam, road and rail relocation, and for the supply of gates and materials
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group Guidelines. There would be two major civil works con-
tracts, one for the main dam, spillway and power house ($95 million), and one
for the reregulating dam ($10 million), excluding physical contingencies and
price escalation. The total value of contracts for the supply and installation
of spillway gates, intake gates, outlet valves and penstocks would be about
$21 million, and about $30 million for road and rail relocation. ISWACO's
policy is to supply contractors with the cement and steel to be incorporated
in the works. Contracts would be awarded with total values of $11 million for
cement and $3 million for reinforcing steel; these would be divided into
several contracts to keep the supply of materials in line with requirements.
A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. Contracts for protective works in the reservoir ($3
million) would be spread over a wide area and divided into a number of small
contracts, and would therefore be awarded after local competitive bidding.
Contracts for the supply of turbines, generators and related powerhouse
equipment ($69 million) would be awarded following bidding according to OECF
guidelines.
Disbursements
54.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and materials, or at the rate of
100% of ex-factory cost for equipment and materials manufactured locally.
Disbursements for civil works would be at 45% of total expenditures and for
contractor's mobilization for the dam would be at 100% of total expenditures.
For consulting services for the proposed Nakdong Barrage and the consulting
panel, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures and would be
100% of foreign expenditures in the case of overseas training. A disbursement
schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Organization and Management
55.       Implementing Agency.  The Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation (ISWACO), a government-owned corporation, would be
responsible for project implementation. ISWACO was established in 1974 to
(a) promote and develop industrial sites for heavy and chemical industries
and (b) develop water resources for irrigation, flood control, electric power
generation, industrial and municipal water supply. ISWACO has developed
into a large and competent organization with a head office staff of 400 and
another 400 in its branch offices. It has planned and constructed five



- 17 -
industrial estates, three shipyards, and four multipurpose dams. Three
industrial estates and two multipurpose dams are presently under construction.
56.       ISWACO, with an authorized capital of W 200 billion, had a paid-in
capital of W 49.0 billion as of December 31, 1978. ISWACO's chief sources
of funds are periodic capital subscriptions by the Government, loans from
the Korea Development Bank, foreign loans and revenues from its operations.
Construction of industrial sites is financed partly from the Government's
contribution towards capital and by long-term loans from KDB; after completion,
these industrial sites, together with related loan obligations, are sold to
users at a price marginally above cost. Multipurpose dam construction is
financed mainly by the Government's capital contributions, and foreign loans.
The Soyang Dam and the Andong Dam provide ISWACO revenues from the sale of
energy to KECO. The revenues from this energy, determined by contract
between KECO and ISIIACO, cover operating and maintenance costs, and provide
a 3% rate of return on a rate base which includes revalued assets and
working capital allocated to power. This return is designed to cover debt
service assigned to the dams. ISWACO does not receive any revenue on the
water supplied from its dams; the Government, through MOC, however, collects
a raw water charge from all entities diverting water from Korea's major
rivers. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities is 1.34. Its
debt/equity ratio of 0.48 provides capacity for additional borrowing.
ISWACO has not declared dividends to date and is authorized to do so only
after retained earnings reach 50% of paid-in capital, a point unlikely to be
reached for many years. However, the Government does indirectly receive
dividends from ISWACO's operations when it collects raw water charges in
river basins benefitted by the multipurpose dams.
57.       Dam Safety.  The proposed dam is a major structure with a large
volume of storage and it could cause severe damage in the unlikely event of
failure. It has been agreed that ISWACO would make arrangements to have a
suitable maintenance and inspection program for the dam and to advise the
Bank in writing not later than December 31, 1983 as to how it proposes to
meet this obligation (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
ISWACO proposal would include a description and schedule of the maintenance
and inspection program, the designation of experts, if any, to be employed,
and, if applicable, a copy of their terms of reference. The Bank would have
an opportunity to comment on the proposals before they are adopted.
Environmental Impact
58.       The displacement of some 9,300 families from the reservoir area
would be the main adverse environmental effect of the project. Prompt and
adequate compensation would considerably ease the social problems faced by
the reservoir population in finding new land, homes, and employment. Down-
stream effects will be almost entirely positive and there are no areas of
flood-dependent agriculture which would be affected by the changes in flood
regime. Surveys carried out as part of the feasibility study found no
significant archeological, historical or cultural sites in the reservoir



- 18 -
area. A further conclusion of the survey was that there would be no signif-
icant impact on wildlife, but it was noted that the reservoir could become
an important fisheries resource.
Project Charges
59.       Power.  As in the case of other projects owned and operated by
ISWACO, the energy produced by the project would be purchased by KECO. It
has been agreed that the rate per kWh paid by KECO would be set to provide
ISWACO with annual revenues sufficient to cover operation and maintenance
costs, depreciation at an annual rate of 2%, and a return of 6% on the
portion of the project's gross fixed assets allocated to power. This would
be equivalent to providing a discounted cash flow rate of return of 8%.
It was agreed that (a) by June 30, 1983 ISWACO would submit to the Bank for
review and comment a proposed rate per kWh together with any relevant
supporting data, and (b) ISWACO would establish and impose by December 31,
1983 a rate for energy sales acceptable to the Bank (Sections 5.04 (a) and
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). A provisional allocation of project costs
between power, water supply, and flood control was made using the separable
costs-remaining benefits method. About 65% of capital and O&M costs would be
allocated to power, 20% to water supply and 15% to flood control; on this
basis, ISWACO would have to charge W 18/kWh (37 mills/kWh) for energy sold to
KECO.
60.       Water Supply.  In the case of major multipurpose projects which
benefit in varying degrees a wide range of users, ISWACO does not impose
direct charges for water. A charge for raw water withdrawals at a rate of
W 4/cu m is, however, imposed on all users throughout the Basin by the
Ministry of Construction. Virtually all of the increase in water use in the
15-year period beginning in 1986 can be attributed to the Chungju Project.
Incremental revenues from raw water charges due to the project would provide
a rate of return of about 10% on costs allocated to water supply. The Govern-
ment is presently reviewing tariffs for raw water withdrawals in the Nakdong
River Basin, and the findings of the review and any subsequent tariff
increases will be applied to other river basins in Korea.
61.       Flood Control.  Although the economic benefits of flood control
would be significant, there is no way in which direct charges could be imposed
to recapture these benefits. A major part of the project's flood benefits
arise from elimination of flood damage. This, together with more productive
land use in the flood plains, will increase revenues to the Government and
local authorities, and reduce Government outlays for repair of public facilities
and flood relief programs. However, such financial benefits to the Government
have not been quantified since they cannot be estimated with any accuracy.
Project Benefits and Justification
62.       The proposed project would meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigation water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following



- 19 -
its completion in 1984. It would also substantially reduce flood damage in
the South Han, generate an average of 770 GWh annually, and provide 460 MW
of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The rapid population growth
and industrial development of the Han Basin has been accompanied by a four-
fold increase in water use over the past ten years. A major factor in this
development has been the surface water storage provided by the existing
reservoirs in the Han Basin which conserve the monsoon flows for use in the
six-month long dry season when only 20% of the Basin's runoff occurs. The
project would provide the additional storage needed by the mid-1980s when
growing demands would exceed the regulating capacity of the existing reservoirs.
A computer model designed to simulate the operation of existing and future
reservoirs in the Basin was used to determine the Basin's storage needs. In
these studies a test of future demands was made against a 24-year sequence of
historic flows taking into account existing reservoirs. Without the project,
it was found that with 1986 demands, there would be significant shortages in
5 years of the sequence, and, with 1991 demands, in 10 years of the sequence.
Thus, the project is needed to ensure a reliable source of water essential to
the Basin's continued economic development beyond the mid-1980s.
63.       In addition to meeting the storage needs of the Basin, the project
would provide a low-cost source of peaking capacity and energy to help meet
Korea's rapidly growing power demands.  Peak demands are projected to grow
from 5,300 MW at present to 12,000 MW in 1985 and nearly 20,000 MW in 1990.
By 1985, efficient operation of the system will require that about 10% of the
installed capacity be designed to operate for short periods at times of peak
demand.  An important contribution to this would be the 460 MW of capacity
provided by the project. A further important justification for the project
is the urgent need to control floods which, about once every four years,
cause serious and widespread damage in the Basin.
Least-Cost Analysis
64.       This analysis compares the discounted cost stream of the project
with the sum of the discounted cost streams of the lowest cost alternatives
for meeting the same water and power demands. The present value of the
Chungju cost stream is lower at discount rates below 19%. The selection
of the lowest cost alternatives for water supply and power is briefly
summarized below.
65.       Water Supply Alternative.  An alternative to Chungju in meeting
the storage needs of the Han Basin would be the sequential construction of
the following two projects:
(a) Hongcheon dam on a tributary of the North Han. Constructed
by 1986 this would meet storage needs through 1991 (Cost
$176 million).
(b) Yeoju dam on the South Han about 50 km downstream of the
Chungju site. This would be constructed to be operational



- 20 -
in 1992 and meet storage needs until about the year 2000
(Cost $290 million).
66.       Power Alternative.  The lowest cost alternative to Chungju's power
installation was determined by comparing four possible types of installation -
oil-fired steam, gas turbine, combined cycle thermal, and pumped storage.
Power system studies showed that a gas turbine installation with a capacity
of 460 MW (probably eight to ten units) was the lowest cost. The capital
cost of this alternative is estimated at $115 million (460 MW at $250/kw)
and the annual incremental fuel cost would be $25.9 million.
67.       Flood Control.  The alternative to Chungju in providing flood
control in the South Han and the Lower Han would, theoretically, be the
construction of flood embankments and the raising of existing embankments.
In practice, it is unlikely that such an alternative to provide the same
degree of flood protection would be technically and economically feasible.
Thus, as a proxy for the cost stream of a "flood control alternative," a
stream composed of the Chungju project's annual flood control benefits has
been used.
Economic Evaluation
68.       In quantifying the project's benefits, economic values have to be
assigned to the water and electrical energy supplied by the project.
The economic values of energy and municipal water cannot be measured directly,
but they can be approximated by prices that consumers are willing to pay
less the costs incurred in constructing and operating the delivery systems.
The retail tariff has been adopted as a minimum measure of consumer's
willingness to pay, ignoring consumer surplus and the possibility that the
market clearing rate might be higher than the actual tariff. For industrial
water, the tariff for raw water withdrawals has been used and the relatively
small costs of intake systems have been ignored. For irrigation water, the
economic value is measured in terms of incremental crop production. Flood
control benefits have been quantified in terms of reduced damages and
enhanced agricultural production due to reduced flood risks.
69.       Water Supply.  The demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin is expected to grow from 3,700 MCM in 1986 to 6,800 MCM
in 2001. Without the proposed project, or alternative storage projects, growth
in demand beyond levels projected for the mid-1980s would be physically
impossible because of lack of water in the dry season. Thus, virtually
all of the increase in water use beyond 1986 can be attributed to the project.
The basis for estimating the economic value of water for each of the three
uses is described below.
Municipal: A retail tariff of W 40/cu m was used, less O&M costs of
W 10/cu m, and system expansion costs equivalent to W 16/cu m. Thus,
the net economic value of municipal water is W 14/cu m.
Industrial: The prevailing tariff for raw water withdrawal is W 4/cu m.



- 21 -
Irrigation: The net economic value of irrigation water is estimated at W
9/cu m, based on data from a recent Bank-financed irrigation project, the
Ogseo Area Development Stage I Project (Loan 1503-KO).
70.       Power Benefits.  The average annual gross generation of the proposed
project would be 770 GWh. After deducting transmission and distribution
losses (8%), energy sold would be 710 GWh. The average revenue per kWh in
Korea on the basis of current tariffs would be W 24.2. The project's share of
investments needed to expand transmission and distribution systems has been
estimated at $45.0 million and $66.0 million, respectively. The annual
O&M cost associated with this incremental investment is $0.5 million for
transmission and $0.8 million for distribution. These incremental costs
were deducted from the annual power benefit.
71.       Flood Control.  The project would substantially reduce the magni-
tude and frequency of flood damage in the South Han and the Lower Han.
Changes in the flood regime would also induce more productive use of agri-
cultural land in the flood plains. There has been considerable urban,
industrial and agricultural development along the rivers of the Han Basin in
recent years. This would continue even in the absence of the project. Thus,
for a given level of flooding, future damage in real terms would be greater
than at present. The annual benefit due to damage reduction is estimated to
increase from $6.3 million, when the project is completed in 1985, to
$12.2 million 20 years later. The annual value of incremental agricul-
tural production as a result of reduced flood risks is estimated to reach
$4.3 million four years after completion of the project.
72.       Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over a 50-year evaluation period, the economic
rate of return of the project is 12%. The water and power benefits are
primarily based on retail tariffs which are minimum measures of consumers'
willingness to pay. The sensitivity of the rate of return to higher esti-
mates of willingness to pay was tested; increasing the water and power
tariffs by 20% raised the rate of return to 14%. The effect of slower growth
in water demand was tested, and with a 5-year lag in attaining projected
demand the rate of return dropped to 10%. Finally, an increase in con-
struction costs of 20% was found to lower the rate of return to 10%.
73.       Risks.  ISWACO and other government agencies who would be concerned
with the project have considerable experience in the implementation of multi-
purpose projects, and there should be no problems in management and coordina-
tion of the physical works. A demanding feature of the project in terms of
management will be the timely acquisition of land and property in the reservoir
area, and the prompt payment of compensation. However, programs of a similar
nature in Korea have been undertaken in the past without serious delays or
social problems. The only significant technical problem could be in implemen-
ting the works required to deal with the geologic conditions of the dam's
right abutment. For this reason, ISWACO has selected as engineering consul-
tants a firm with considerable experience in dam design in Korea and elsewhere.
ISWACO will also be advised by a consulting panel which includes an expert in
engineering geology.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial Sites
and Water Resources Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Korea and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 2, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A1ERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-)                 KOREA REPUBLIC OF               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             98.5                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      24.4                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION Jc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  120.0       290.0     810.0            616.0      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     258.0        815.0    1038.0           522.0       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        25.0         32.2      36.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0         41.2      48.5             30.1       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                      254.0        327.0     371.0            156.8       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.0       1371.0    1496.0            794.8       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.5         42.1      38.6            40.8        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         55.7         54.5      57.9            55.4        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.8          3.4       3.5              3.2        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8          2.3       1.8              2.3        2.5          1.6
URBAN                              5.9          6.4       5.4              5.1        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.7        35.0      28.8             34.6       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.9        11.4       8.9              8.7       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1 /f      2.6       1.9              2.6        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         42.0      34.2             22.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             81.6        100.0     104.5            106.8      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMNTS)                    85.0        114.0     115.0            108.7      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.0         65.0      75.7             57.7       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0 AL     19.0      16.3             17.0       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..        ..              4.0        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0         65.0      68.0             59.0       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            82.9 1h       ..      38.0             44.0       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         58.0      66.0             21.9       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..         84.0      95.0             58.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..         38.0      38.0              9.8       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        25.0      64.0             28.6       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..        59.0      80.0             66.6       45.4         90.7
RUR AL                              ..           ..      50.0             14.8       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3220.0      2110.0    2100.0           4103.1     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0 L1  2170.0 /i 1440.0 /i         1520.2     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2510.0       1900.0    1760.0            657.1      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            145.5      229.6        129.9
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           1011.8     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9        ..             19.0       22.1         18.9
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.3       5.1              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                               5.4         5.0       4.9              5.2        5.0
RURAL                               5.6         5.5       5.3              5.4        5.4
AVERAGE HUMMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3         ..              ..        2.0          0.9
URBAN                               2.8         2.7         ..              ..         1.5         0.8
RURAL                               2.4         2.2         ..              ..        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0        50.0         ..            39.1       64.1         59.2
URBAN                              67.3        92.3         ..              ..       67.8         78.0
RURAL                              12.0        30.0      64.9               ..       34.1         12.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
KOREA REPUBLIC OP                                        /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0     109.0             95.6        99.8        97.6
FEMALE                88.0       105.0      109.0            93.7        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      59.0             43.3        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                14.0        34.0       50.0             38.6       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 14.0          16.0      16.0             11.3        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         57.0      52.0             30.0        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                          34.0         37.0      38.0             25.4        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        70.6         87.0      92.0 Li          84.0        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          2.0       2.4              9.3        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         32.0        126.0     144.0             97.6       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         13.0      48.0             21.8        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        138.0      175.0            25.9        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           5.0        3.0             4.6         4.6          4.4
FMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7500.0      10200.0   13100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   25.8         32.7      32.8             33.2        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.0         50.4      44.6             48.4        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.3         20.1      22.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.4         35.0      36.6             38.9        33.8        33.7
MALE                                 49.5         46.8      48.8             48.6        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                               17.2         23.0      24.2             28.4        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.4        1.2             1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1 /k       17.1      16.1             17.3        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3 /k       44.5      45.3             45.6       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7 /k        7.1       5.7              6.5        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0 /k       17.7      16.9             17.3        13.1        13.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     220.0            140.8      191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     200.0            112.8      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     194.0               ..      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     176.0             76.8      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       9.0             27.7       19.8         23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      14.0             40.4       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
valu.es of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income
($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /g  1962;   /h  1957;   /i  Registered, not all practising
in the country;   /i  Aged 10 years and over;  /k  1965.
September 1978



ANNEX I
K    TO COUTnRIES BY REGION AND INCOME CROUP/a                                            Page   3   of   6   pages
,;PICs'L nunrpt
Region/ 7nreo  Group              Lov Inc-orb                       Lower Middle               Internadiute Middle                   Upper Middle            High Incomi/f               Cnuntrie
I-arae/c                      dneL4                              Inoe_L                                         Oil Ihport.r
Be.i.                   Malawi            Angol-                   Fhaa                                   Djibo-ti                  Gabon
Burundi                 Mali              Notewaoa                 Ivory Co.it                            Reunion
Central African Emp.  Mo!ambique          Canro-n                  Mauritiue
Chad                    Riger             Cape Verde               Nribi.
Conorna                 Roenda            Congo, P.R.              Sychalle.
Ethiopia                Sier-  Leone      Eqtorial GLin
AFE ICA SOUTH         Gabia. Th.              S-uaiia           Lib.ri.
OF SARARA             Guine                   I- M itan
Goioee-Bi...u           Togo             Nigeria
Renya                   Ugonda            Rbodecia
L..otho                 Upper Volta       San Tao  A Principe
Madagoecar              zaire             Senga
Sudan
Sw..eland
Zabie
NORTH AFRICA          Egypt                                     Morocco                  Algeria                                Babrain                   Israel                      1.it-
NORTH kFRTC     Teen A.R.                                                           lende                                  Tre                       C.an                       Lib,!t
ASD MIDDLE            Y        PBD.R                                                     Syri.n A.R.                            Iraq                                                 Qatar
EAST                   enen                                                              Toni.ia                                Lebanon                                               Saudi Arabia
United Arab Eir.
Afgbani.tan            alldive
SOUTR AStA           iBengl.d.h               PakiN t
Burre                   Sri Lanka
India
C-bodi.                                   Mao Hebridae             China, Rep. of                         Fiji                       mriuan Smoa
Lndonaeia                                 Papue New GuiaC          Gilbort Island                         Hong Kong                 Brun-i
EAST ASIA            LTo PD.R.                                  Philippn.                Xorea, Rep. of                                                   French Polynacim
Solonon Gelanda                          Thailand                  Macno                                                            C.ur
Viet NSo                                  Tog:a                    Malasy.ia                                                        New Caledonia
leeteen SmM.             GTrost Territory of thb  Pacific                                 Sintapore
Haiti                                     Bolivia                  Antigue           G.ut"amla            Argentina                 Bahaea
El SaIvador              Beltse             .I.o.               Barbdo.                   BeOnoda
LATIN AMERICA                                                   Grenada                  Chila             Maeico               Br. il                    Canal Zon
LAG CAMRICBEAN                                                 ECyane                    Clahmbi          Ninorag.a             Frmnch fulna              M-rtintqu-
AND CARIBEAN                                                   HRondrras                 Cseta Rica        Paragusy             Guadeloupu                Vanpuela
St. 0100.0               laieioa           Pe ru               Netherl-nd- Antillee       Virgin I lands (U.S.)
DSliniien Rep.   St. Kitta-Nevi       Paeaia
E-uador          St. LUoie            Puerto Rico
Surinme
Trinidad 6 Teb.0
Urusu y
Turkey                                Cypr''                     CharnI Isaland
Gla 0f Man                Pheare  Wceeda
EUROPE                                                                                                                           Mt.                      Gibraltar
Portugal                  cr. r
I                         I  ~~~~~~~~Ron.nia         t   Ireenlan
Yugolevia                  S r -n*
Auetrelia        Finland                       Italy               Norvay                 Unitad Stat..
INDUSTRIALIZED        ASu trio         France                        JaPon               South Afrih
COUNTRIES             Belgiun          GeDnay Fed. Rp, of            Lu-nb-ourg         sleden
Cenaad           Iceland                       Netherlanda         Switzerland
D-erk            Ireland                       New  leaod          United Kingda
Albania          GeDran Don. Rap.          USSR
B.igaris         Rugary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    Chin  P.R. of    Korea DeM. Rap. of
ECONOMIES             Cuba             Mongolis
C.aohealovekia   Poland
B- laced on 1976 GNP p.r capita in 1976 U8 dollar..
7i 5280 or Ie. per capita.
Ic  $281-550 par capita.
,'d $551-1135 per cpita.
/e  $1136-2500 per capita.                                                                                                                                                                        EPDFS
/f over $2500 per capita.



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                 Page   4   of   6   pages
Nutrs-  Although the data are drown fron sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be inter-
nociocullo uceopo-able because of the lock of etandardiced definitions and concepts aced by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, nonetheless,
useful so describe orders of nagnitude, indicate trends, and characterize certain major differences between countries.
tic adoustnd group acecaRes  for .coh indicator are population-weighted geosetric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated cocntry in each  _roup.  Covo-age of countries among the indicators depends on av ilability of data ocd is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group a_rrges fur Capita) Surplus Oil tEporters and indicators of access to water and e-creta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple popul iton-weighted ge-metric nean- without the eoclusion of estrme vlues.
LAND AREA *thousa.u sq. in)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total strface are  co-mprising land area and inland waters,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Asricultutol - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
cr oernan-ttly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitala are establishments permanently staffed by
:i  falloc.                                                                            at least One physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and  edi-
tNP PER CAPITA (UID) - GNP per tapitr  estimates at current market prices,                cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
-r-ulotod by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (197f-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and  1977 iota                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSDlPTTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal  elctricity) in kilograns of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total psoplation, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  snd their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or my not be included in
avecage of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
irban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data anong countries                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent atructures and
Pe   s. k(. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
oi total area                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total. urban. and rurl -
Pcr us  he.  agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percantage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ags structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yours), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and femalle - Total and female enrollsem, of all ages
growth rates of total and urbhn aid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primry level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrol7aent may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year av..age ending in 1975 for most recent  stimate                     above the official school age.
Crude death orte (per theusand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and faale - Computed as above; secondary *duce-
year population; too-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primry instruction; pro-
and five-yosr average ending in 1975 for most recant eatimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a *womn will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal coprodoctive period if she experiences prsent age-                       excluded.
spe-ific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        elude tecbnical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Fa=ilv planni=g - acceptors, annual (thousanda) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primry, and ascondary - Total students enrolled in
planting program                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Parcentage of                       epsoding levels.
carried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to oll married women in same age group,                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years  nd ovr.
POOD AND iLTTRITIDN                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Index of load production per capita (1970-100) - Inden number of per                 Passenaer cars (per thousand population) - Passenger care comprise motor cers
capita annual production s.f all food commodities.                                   seating less than eight persons; excludes abulances, hearses and military
Per  .cpita supply of oslorie  (percent of requiresmnts) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of recsivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; emcludes unlizensad
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude  nimal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                affect; data for recent years may not be comparable since  ost countries
quir=eents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing,
mal octivity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand pepulatiso) - TV receivers for broadcast to genert
weights, age -nd .s.  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
oent for waste at household level,                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest nwepaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Require=ents for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a   oini=um allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 gres                 be "daily" if it appaars at least four tims a week.
of animal and polse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein,           Cinema annul attendance per capita paer year -  .ased on the number of tickets
Thena stadards ore lower thou those of 75 grams of total protein  nd                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinexas and mobile
23 gra=s of soi-ol protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAG in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita proteln supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived froI   animals and pulses in grams per day.                                Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding hnusswives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various countries are not comparable.
PFmal (percent) - Pemale labor farce as percentage Of total labor force.
HEALTNi                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life e-pectanc-  at birth (yaa.u.   - Average number of years of life                    as percentage of total labor force.
reraining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant nsrculiiy rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and fenale - Total, male, and
One year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-sen
NSober of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population. dnd long time trend,
safe tater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
unocc.taiam ted water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in age group of 13-64 years.
,,nd sanitsry wells) as pereontages of their respective populations.
Is an urban area a public fountain or ntandpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
that 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within re.-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonabhe ac^ess of that house.  In rural areas ressonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewile or members of the household do not have to                    of households,
spend a disproportlonate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acorns to excroca diu1nosl (csrcent of population) - total, urban, and                 stiDated absolute Poverty income level (115 per capita) - urban and rural -
tut' -Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by socreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
cisposa  an percentsies of their respective populations.  Excreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-foed requirements is not
Issu         cay include the collection and disposal, with or without                  affordable.
r-toent, of human excrets and waste-water by ostar-borne sysnets                    Estimated relative poverty income level (010 per capita) - urban and rural -
the     of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level les. than one-third
E per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
- cc quatified from a medical nchool at university level.                   Estimated population below poverty incone level (percent) - urban and rural -
o cE. sursioc necuoc - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute pour" or
pr-tal ing m-le ard fecale fraduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



c-o                              -,                                C     o0 r                                               0                 0 0)             - 0rc              0-o    w
a         F           '                                                                                        01                    '  'O_ Lt                                        1 
°'1                ~            W~   oooo,o   °t 00c                  >FJc- Ot.  0 ot        ft     00 0              a               00          s0O t-H                 *ctt'00OD          O0_  
0. 0    0      0    c     f    .      Oc- O                 000,-                     00       00 00                   000          0. _         0'toU       oc   S        0-to         Ct       -" o
0O O O                   ct o - o -.t                     Ococoo f                           cot    w   -c             S (000    0v- O                    0       oo s          vo o oI
X 5                   - -   ~-1-   FOf-c F                    Fo~ F0(0 F0                                                                                           O  o_ _
o ct-V_ to                               P -ooOco                    O-cct.o              So   _           _o 0,00          8        0       0       00.c-.oc                 00
00                                                                                          u.cot 00(0(  00  '0Cc  OOt        toOfo              0; w                                      c                    _  c           n
_0     00                0< .0             0 _          ' _,t                   0,    00 to,-                                              ccc            -       00             0 Vl4-_   _    o
0    00.mS0.            oo,-o             ctc         of                g                         00                                             00       -          O.  _n
00       0           cO (t-                0      c-c        o-tc  01               ft     0.-. _                                              0      0Z      0 1i       4NC .0  > 0',  - W_C
000                                                      -t 0      n  _0 o                                                                                     00
g0cc                                                       000                                                                               cc                 H      ..k -.
0.       0                                                    t FO                                                                      0             00 l         G           H   _00
o                                    o             gO_OCc_c_ 0                              .           .  .  .                                                                                  0r
DO                                              O-                                         0    00        0     o                      00          H0o o           c0.0tt0 o000 n  @w
O                                                                                  =' 0000                    0000>w_                   Dv         Mw  o0 . 000   c o; 0000 w                           c 
00   =c                 _                                                                                            .                                                                                 -    ___. -F wwwcn< 
'ao-     c c                                 _0                                     -     0 0        0 - '           00                 cc w00     o   C o         r  _  00      ,  tco w_wr_
wOc  Lco _00 _ _                                                                     o- o=                      o oi   
00~ ~~ ~    ~ 0                               -00oco-,o Fc 000  0=w          _0   0
000.~                                                                              - 
ccH0..0~00    o.0              I       00    0000   CocH 0                                     O - 7
HO  cc       '00        I00c           tc0.0       Itttct 



ANNEX I
Pege 6 of 6 p.ges
BatAcE OF PAYMiENTS AND EXTE8NA2. ASSISTANCE
96 1970    1971    197 2      1973    1974    1975    1976    1 977        1980      1985       1990
I.  Enp..c   COccI-. NFil                                      998   1,221   1,479   2,075   3,962   5,125   5 ,6 79   9,111   12,509   21,753   55,907   141,361
2.   bep-oc   (cc-i.  NFl)                                   1,980   2,064   2,490   2,577   4,168   7, 209   7,464  9,493   12.531   21,976   55,243   139.112
3.   R-toro   baino-                                          -882    4843 -1,0112    -502    -'06 -2,084 -1.785    -392               -23      -133        664     2,249
4.  Necf- (ac  -rir-c  i-c-
12)   crc  itirceec  payneoc                          2     -29      -91    -138    -166    -229    -399   -411          -479       -665      -813       -534
of .011cc In tenet onpoblic 9LT 1-ac    -47         -69      -89    -120    -150    -231    -290    -345          -437      -970  -1,296    -1,4 75
(2)  Dire    i---tiri  ncm                                  -6       -8               -2        1       -8       -5     -37       -63       -52      -157        -215
4)   3her  tacrer-e-on    cc                              97       77       84     101       72       74       76     162,      754        400       35         300
5.    urttates ce                                              246      187      171      172      192     224      22 6     349       1223      250        250        289
o .  tulacor on correot account               -50~~~~~~~~~9 -23    -848    -371    -309 -2,023    .8_87    -314         12      -_220      299      2,090
7.  Prlcac   direc   i-trrne-                                    16       63      43       14      i37      104       33       76       90       260        360        575
9.   Offocla1 capi'ta  grati                                    151     131       84       67       61       64        -                  -         -         -           -
9.   ilsburaer,evtu                             4~~~~~~~         ~~~~    ~~~~ ~~60  414  625  715  757   1,155   t,687   1,701    2,218    3,341    3,316  4,209
!.cootcizuclun                                 ~~~~ ~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~10  205  215  260  334  391  368  SOt4    7 17    1,322    2,681        3,394
II.   ccdieb-u-cut                                               55i     200      410      406      423      764   1.319  1,197    1,501    1,729            633        623
Oc-er M7 &  7Loac
;2,  Monboct....c                                                 130      7t      33       o9       751    127 4      03     120         50       162       3790       8032
13.   b     I_ciaio3                                                       8       13       t        15      23       20       66        73        78       272        466
IS.   9c  dittb-e--c                                              (4       711     23       39       36      151       57       54      -2 3        94       1.8        334
IS.   -t  of [MF  ootcsl                                                 -10       -8      -10        8-    132       130      97       -24       -78          -           -
o .  Scott-crc,  capital  ttgnsaotloon          ~~~ ~ ~~57  122  135      -9        8      -45      682      351        59      -2570         0        iSO
Ii.   Capotaiiraotaoc loot 901NE c                      -7671             11 2     -87    -110      868       141     -48        ,73     -350          -           -
IS    lugocercs7    Increase   Ld                              -161      -35       49    -i59    -3140      -13    -493 -1,419   -1,345   -1,165   -1,462    73,954
IS.   Poroto   -ucbage   eecsS                                   54 9    584      535      694   1,034   1,249   1,542   2 ,9 61    4,306    7,302   13,8.1    28,961
(rod of pioud0)
0.  G-no  -od Loo  Coitute-t                                                                                                                                                                          1972 ~1973 ~1974    1975  - 1976              1 97 7
Lebo cod _ebi le-cloe
.tOn   tr.ut                                          150      171       84       87       61      64        -                  -        -I,lit debt  --rei-di,0  4                  2,691   3,299   3,982   0,277   6,659    8, 472
2.   Tota    jbilo M I [T boot                                  753     475      699      813   1,273   1,972   1,304   3,613    3 ,u65             ditbursd  (en   of PerIod)
(1)  7180                                                   65      40       95       73      150       85     382.5   372        u26          t--ters   no   aiic det                      120.    .15       201      290      389     437
727   OtO                                   1~~~~~            ~ ~~~~           ~~~~                                       ~ ~~~5 15  7  26  20  --  -  ece   rP.bit   debt   9       334      391      368     524      717
3)  Oob-c-1lJIlete-a   if                                  25       20       81       68      46       89      101.7   114        135         10610  publIc  debt  -ervIc                  009      484       592     658      883   1,154
o(    o-er-nr   /g                                        102      161     255      479      383     477      361      917       027          oiler, debIsrice   ne                         23       33       54       60      103      125
nifc -t          -11cyeilf   -dln  --f-toco …        …         …        …        …        …        …         …-                       oTtu_.lcbtstIceoc432                                  57       646      710      996   1,279
51   soppllert                            3~~~~~~~         ~~~~      ~~~~74  134  248  94  223  486  232  689    1,067
P6 rIuc   bantsI                                        144     14        13       73      240     737      193   1,448    2,3471    BodO  or lcpor   Earings  I21
(7( lot                                                                                                 10               itL       68it FN debt~ serIce                                    19.7    12.2    lIt6    11.8          .       .
.6 olclasNEIl /h                                 20        1                        11       79       34                 -        Total debt  service                           217.8    13.1    12.6    12.       129       02
3.  Otter        IT 1.7 ben     t200                                     26       67       74      213      12      18        97        16        T8S + Direct boric. Ici.                      27.7    13.1    12.4    12 .6    '12.3    10. 7
L.t'.11110.bl (d.-b-d Illy)                                                                                %~Anutc0lcerur   s      PrIor Year  246 D                             .3      5 .6    16.3     7. 6     81.2     7.3
inteRnal  3ri(iioedoly(9aclalna I-i                                                                                                                                            prior yea   0062    12.9    12.4    12.2          9.       0.9    11.9
I.  tank Group /4                                                       9~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46.  112       101  debt   -.oucading  & diucb--d               94.7   139.8   22 3. 8   403.    659.0   835.1
3.otiv   nu lcrLkfI                                                                           322.8              3.8                                     %s7pblcdeb  042                            3.5      4.4     5I       7.       99       9.9
a.    2oeorc                                                                                   , 917.7            3o,4                                     es 2poblic  doic  -rric                     1.7     2 .5     3.3      1.6      5.7      4.7
S.  loppli-r                                                                                  1,560,2             1.4                                104 debtl nutuacci1Ng  & dirborne               47.7    58.5    78.3    92.    102.4   11,
6.   ricuOtial lvuiic.,ciont Il                                      ~~~~~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~2,55 6.  30.2-c1 pbitdb00                                                      1.8      1.0     2.7       16      1.       13
8.   Public  dccc  cci,~7                                                                   .0'.li   d~                                                                                 UU'
9.  Tota  publii  MALT dib,                                                                  8,472.3            i00.0
10.   Otter MALT  eblt                                                                           544a 
Ii.   nT.aI  pobl,cdebt (n-l. u-di,b-r-dl                                                     13,483,9-
12.  Tota~l M&LT debt (diub-re   oi(9,0(17.-
13.  Toco1 lILT dobc   -o.tditboc-rd)                                                         14,05 3,1-
lb  INetodf 'draLoo-  and   re-Pey-e-  b, p-cobu              (IFS).
/c   Ic,,e    05 i "ilIon  borcoed by ibe~ bootIng  s-te   Lc  1974,   S"-c  cok ot Ico   conIst  of Ercor  andtesin.outrcco
rud   to otl'P_ojr_cnIu _  cc  1985 Iad 1990.
Id   EcIu   un-. ot   f 181' re---oe   ahblob  or   toa   -rp-r-ely.
/.  "Loci--i-nl taso,(IFS).
Lj  -toltu-  biliatoa   ODA, Euinbanka   offIcIal  -upo-c-dic,  i-tluding  U.S. CC0  -cdi-.
74Obt -ocoid pricac   I..-a
It .-aelon   aitnu-   goar..t.
/I  Pri-at   ba-kc  aud otb-  ir  lom-       icit1         os
Nonenie 10, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                             Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number  Year         Borrower            Purpose               Bank   TW    IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and eight credits fully disbursed                 513.5         106.8
795    1972   ADC                    Irrigation              33.0                     0.1
863    1972   Republic of Korea   Railways IV                40.0                     0.7
906    1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                23.0                   10.9
917    1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                     80.0                   10.5
942    1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production             7.0                    2.4
953    1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                    25.0                     5.5
994    1974   AFDC                   Agriculture              13.0                    4.2
1070    1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities            15.0                    5.3
1096    1975   Republic of Korea   Education III              22.5                    11.7
1101    1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                 100.0                    7.1
1145    1975   KDFC V                 Dev. Fin. Co.           55.0                     0.2
1175    1975   SMIB - I               Dev. Fin. Co.           30.0                     1.0
1193    1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated          15.0                     3.1
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III               90.0                   29.8
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-               20.0                     2.1
1218-T                                  structure I                  40.0              4.1
1319    1976   ADC                    Irrigation              29.0                   27.7
1328    1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit   20.0                          8.0
1338    1976  KYDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.        82.5                   14.4
1364    1977   ADC                    Irrigation              95.0                   90.4
1401    1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                   67.0                   66.7
1461    1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.        70.0                   28.2
1466    1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery            80.0                   54.3
1474    1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training   23.0                        23.0
1503    1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation    36.0                        36.0
1507    1978   SMIB - II              Dev. Finance Co.        55.0                   21.5
1530    1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastruc-
ture II              95.0                   86.7
1542    1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                120.0                  120.0
1574    1978   KDB III                DFC                    110.0                  108.0
1635/a  1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finance Co.       100.0                  100.0
1640/a  1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV               143.0                  143.0
Total                                             2,207.5  40.0  106.8 1,026.6
of which has been repaid                           76.9    -      1.2
Total now outstanding                             2,130.6  40.0  105.6
Amount sold                    7.1
of which has been repaid   1.9                      5.2    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                  2,125.4  40.0  105.6
Total undisbursed                                 1,022.5   4.1    0.0 1,026.6
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business                Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.         Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                            2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development        -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.               Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                              15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing           17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electroniz Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronia Products                     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                    0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market                    -     0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                      -      1.7    1.7
1979   KiFC                   Capital Market                    -      0.6    0.6
Total gross commitment                                 99.4   17.6  117.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                45.7    1.3   47.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                      53.7   16.3   70.0
Total undisbursed                                        _       -      -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942     Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation should be completed about mid-1979. The contractor for the last
cereal plant civil works has declared bankrupcy, and completion of the works
has been let to other contractors; thus, there could be some additional
delay. More than two-thirds of the proceeds of the loan have been disbursed
and it is estimated that disbursements could be completed in 1979. It is
planned that all plants will operate on a pilot basis in 1979 and would reach
an average of 75% of capacity in 1980.
Loan No. 994     Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in .the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of December 31, 1978 were about 68% of the loan.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants and construction of a new processing plant,
the diversification of their production, the establishment of 2 milk collection
centers and 50 small milk cooling units; and (d) provision of technical
services for both farm development and milk processing. Effectiveness of the
project was delayed for about a year, but farm development is progressing
rapidly and the project may be completed ahead of schedule. Technical
assistance to the farmers has been strengthened. Construction of new process-
ing plant and expansion of one of the existing plants were completed last
year; expansion of the other plant will be completed this year. KDBC's
financial situation improved over the course of 1976 and the company made
profits in 1977 and 1978. Prospects are for continued, gradual improvement.
As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were over 79% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood,
Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation has experienced some delays,
mainly the result of budgetary shortages and a cost overrun of 18%, but
should be substantially completed by early 1979. Upland reclamation was
completed in 1978. Project monitoring and reporting continue to be satis-
factory and a good start has been made on the Hydrologic Services Study and a
major project evaluation study. The estimated cost of the project is likely
to be 16% above the appraisal estimate, mostly as a result of cost overruns
for Minor Irrigation and Rural Electrification and an increase in the size of
the Water Supply component. Disbursements are practically in line with
appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work has started on the first
of five major civil work contracts. Altogether, the five contracts will
involve construction of 8 large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
and secondary canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The
project, which will require five years to complete, also involves construction
of 80 km of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as
well as feasibility studies for a second stage project in the IMiho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
fo'r medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm storage. The project became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were 60% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project would assist the Government's program to intensify
agricultural production, thereby raising rural incomes and foodgrain produc-
tion, and to improve the quality of rural life. The project includes
60 irrigation subprojects on about 9,200 ha, construction of water supply
systems in about 7,400 villages, construction or improvement of about
2,500 km of river banks, connnection of about 2,700 villages to the telephone
network and the installation of about 75,000 subscriber's lines, and training
and project monitoring and evaluation. The project would benefit about
7.7 million people or about 48% of Korea's rural population. As of December 31,
1978, disbursements were about 9% of the loan amount.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covered about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are being used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange compotlent
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. Over 99% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 97% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of December 31,
1978, disbursements were about 83% of the total loan amount.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisfactory. As of December 31, 1978,
disbursements were about 60% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is designed to manufacture equipment required for
power generation, steel mills, and chemical and petrochemical plants. It
consists of: (a) foundry and forge shops; (b) fabrication shops; (c) machine
shops; (d) assembly and test shops; (e) support facilities; (f) other auxili-
ary facilities; and (g) technical assistance. Project costs have been
increased by 24% above the appraisal estimate due to addition of equipment
to meet increased emphasis in nuclear power plant in KECO's construction
program; and depreciation of the US Dollar since appraisal. Project imple-
mentation is proceeding well, although increased project scope and some
procurement delays have extended the targeted completion date to April 1980.
The company has submitted a plan of action to reduce the debt equity ratio to
the 70:30 level specified in the Project Agreement. As of December 31, 1978,
disbursements were over 32% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A substantial portion of the loan - $20.0 million - would be earmarked
to assist small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a
gross capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements
were about 61% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Overall progress
is satisfactory. Commitments started in October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan 1635          Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;/1
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order to
support KDFC's efforts to provide financial assistance to small- and medium-
scale, relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available to the
Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related works.
Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed by
the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way. The
project is expected to be completed in about June 1979, six months before the
present Closing Date, which has been extended by one year to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of the proceeds after project completion. As
of December 31, 1978, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached about 53% of the total loan amount; they are expected to improve
rapidly.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five VTIs.
Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980 for
both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected to
/1 Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
be below the appraisal estimates. As of December 31, 1978, disbursements were
around 48% of the total loan and were close to the original forecasts, partic-
ularly for ALA part of the project.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational Training
Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI)
and technical assistance, part of which is being provided by UNDP and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The implementation schedule has been revised.
The construction of dormitories are postponed to 1979 and construction of two
VTIs planned in 1979 is being postponed to 1980, because the present budget
has been affected by recent price increases in wages and materials. The
Government's attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary
provisions. Civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978, approximately
six months behind schedule. Equipment procurement has commenced for two VTIs
and the CVTI with about $4.0 million purchased. Disbursements should improve
significantly in 1979. Technical Assistance from UNDP and Germany is satis-
factory. Initial experience with in-plant training schemes in Korea indicates
lack of interest from industry. The Government's Vocational Training Bureau
(VTB) is exploring ways to improve the system.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development. The first two hotels with
600 rooms are under construction and are scheduled to commence operations in
the spring of 1979. Negotiations with other private investors are under way
for a third hotel and also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort
area. About 78% of the loan had been disbursed as of December 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. The Fisheries port complex at Yeosu has been
completed. Construction of houses in the housing estates is nearly completed;
a substantial portion of sites have been occupied. Overall completion of
works is 99%. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of
effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of December 31, 1978, disbursement was
about 65% of the loan amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The main elements of the project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;,
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have been
committed, and over 98% already disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended
to March 31, 1979 to allow time for the completion of procurement.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27. 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Eight of the ten civil works contracts and all equipment supply
contracts are satisfactorily completed. Work is also progressing on the
grain handling facility and the grain silo which will be completed by April
1979. Total cost is currently estimated to be $144 million with a foreign
exchange component of about $102 million. The loan provides $80 million
foreign exchange and the overrun is being financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). The Korea Maritime and Port Authority
(KMPA) is adequately staffed, but there has been a delay in implementing
operational and financial procedures. Consultants for the implementing phase
are now assisting KMPA who expect to introduce commercial accounting by



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
January 1981 under Loan 1041-KO. Around 91% of the loan proceeds has
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. Ninety-five percent of the loan proceeds have
already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways
totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Contracts for
construction and paving are progressing substantially on schedule. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants started in January 1978, and are now
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements to the end of December 1978 were
about 67% of the total loan. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a
loan of $35 million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28. 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. Appointment of engineering consultants for the civil works was
delayed and final design of the extension of the container facility is about
30% complete. The first contract will be let about mid-1979.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment items
for 1980 and 1981.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project;/l  $143.0 Million Loan of December 22,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national roads
totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including paving and
supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads totaling about
280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance equipment for maintaining
national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the institutions involved in
the planning, design, maintenance, construction, administration and financing
of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the preparation of a program for
improving the organization and functions of such institutions, upgrading
provincial and gun road maintenance and the future development of the gun
road system, to be followed by detailed engineering of about 2,000 km
of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships for training staff of the
Ministry of Construction.
/I Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
CHUNGJU MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Completion of feasibility study: November 1976
(b) Departure of pre-appraisal mission: May 1977
(c) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1977
(d) Signing of OECF loan: January 1978
(e) Appointment of project consultants: March 1978
(f) Follow-up mission to review the consultants' draft preliminary design
report: April 1978
(g) Completion of consultants' preliminary design report: May 1978
(h) Completion of negotiations: October 1978
(i) Completion of consultants' final report on designs and cost estimates:
January 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) The Bank recommended the appointment of an independent consulting panel
to assist ISWACO in the review and approval of the consultants' design,
and to advise on any special technical problems encountered during
project implementation. ISWACO accepted the Bank's recommendations and
the panel was appointed in June 1978 and the first meeting took place in
July 1978.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) ISWACO would, by December 31, 1979, submit to the Bank for review and
comment a report presenting the results of a land and property survey,
together with a timetable for the acquisition of property and for
payment of compensation (para. 48);
(b) the Government would give farmers displaced by the project preference
for purchase of reclaimed tidal land, including such land in Yong
San Gang, Stage II (para. 48);
(c) ISWACO would, by June 30, 1981, present to the Bank for review and
comment a detailed proposal for the allocation to displaced farm families
of land in the draw-down zone of the reservoir (para. 48);
(d) the Government would arrange to provide ISWACO with financing by
June 30, 1980 for the supply and installation of a fourth generating unit
(para. 52);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) ISWACO would, by December 31, 1983, submit to the Bank for review a
detailed proposal for the maintenance and inspection program of the
Chungju Dam, including a description and schedule of this proposed
program, the designation of experts, if any, to be employed and, if
applicable, their terms of reference (para. 57);
(f) ISWACO would submit to the Bank for review and comment by June 30, 1983
a proposed rate for the sale of the project's energy to KECO, and
would establish and impose a rate acceptable to the Bank by December 31,
1983 (para. 59).



IBRD 1328
~~~~27'               128' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUA                           179
KOREA
CHUNGJU                                                                                                                  -I'
MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
--9  I-  Existing Dams                                                                                                  c
Proposed Chungiu Dam                                                                               39'-
--i-Potential Dams
Future Reservoirs
Existing Irrigated Areas
Potential Tidal Reclamation
Basin Boundary
RoadsI
Expressways (Toll)                                                                                                       129-
- ---.-i*-Railways
z-~-~  Rivers
Provincial and Special                     _
City Boundaries            o/ mt                    ,                                             \
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                     os
-38,
'       EuViesn                                                                                           DO<G     3
D Ag.ce,                                    ncoeo
.u, eon                                                            eong\ eO .GWE°
37'~~~~ ~ 4 or.                                                                                                                             37'
<           S   o /                   ^e                    O    Ip~~~0   1    20   30   40   50
a                            z \                  )~~~~~~~-                      K ILOMETrE RS
t  s 1         <..  .~~~~~~~~~~N.
ci,                                                                                                                                                  37 -27'  °28-  i29



