Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8359-GM
STAFF A?PRAISAL REPORT
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
Its.         r not     *be



Currency Equivalents
(March 1990)
Currency Unit  =    Dalasi: (D)
US$ 1.00       =    D   8.06
Dl             =    USS 0.12
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 mile
1 meter          =  1.09 yard
1 m2             = 10.16 sq. ft.
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB      African Development Bank
BPMRU     Book Production and Material Resources Unit
BSC       Banjul Skill Center
CDC       Curriculum Development Center
CEE       Common Entrance Examination
EEC       European Economic Community
GCE       Gambia General Certificate of Education
GTTI      Gambia Technical Training Institute
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MDI       Management Development Institute
MOE       Ministry of Education
MSLC      Middle School Leaving Certificate
NCTEVT    National Council for Technical Education and
Vocational Training
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NVTB      National Vocational Training Board
NVTC      National Vocational Training Center
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSLC      Primary School Leaving Certificate
REO       Regional Education Office
SBU       School Building Unit
SOE       Statements of Expenditure
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
VET       Vocational Education and Training
VSO       Volunteer Service Organization
VTC       Vocational Training Center
WAEC      West Africa Examinations Council
Fiscal Year                                         School Year
July 1 - June 30                               September - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION 3ECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................   i
PART I:  INTRODUCTION .................................................  1
PART II:  THE EDUCATION SYSTEM ........................................  1
A.   Structure of the Education System ...........................        1
B.   Main Issues in Education ....................                        3
1.  Low and Inequitable Access to Primary Education .... .....  3
2. Low Internal Efficiency and P'or Quality of Primary
Education ..........       ....................................  4
3.  Inappropriate Structure of Secondary Education .... ......  5
4.  Financial and Budgetary Constraints .....................  5
C.   Government's Sectoral Strategy .............................         6
D.   The Bank Group's Role .....       ..................................  7
E.   Donors' Role in Education          .......................           8
PART III:  THE PROJECT ................................................   9
A.   Project Objectives and Description ...............                   9
B.   The Policy Framework            ........................             9
C.   The Investment Component ..................................... 14
D.   Project Costs and Financing Plan ............ ................ 25
E.   Project Implementation   ...................................... 26
1.   Project Readiness and Management .....         .................. 26
2.   Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account .... ...... 27
PART IV:  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................. 29
PART V*  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....................... 29
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that visited
the Gambia in June 1989. The mission members were M. Wodajo (Sr. Educator,
mission leader), D. Hamilton (Education Planner), S. Berkman
(Technical/Vocational Training Specialist), A. Ransom (Research Analyst).
C. Denning (Textbook Specialist, Consultant) and J. Waechter (Architect,
Consultant). M. Zymelman, (Sr. Education Advisor) assisted in the analysis
of the financial impact of the education reform measures. This report was
drafted by the mission members and completed by Mr. William Cooper
(Education Consultant). Secretarial support was provided by Ms. M. Fisher.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents mail not otherwise be disclosed without World I



ANNEXES
1-1       Social Indicator Data Sheet
1-2       Basic Data
2-1(a)    Structure of the Education and Training System (before Policy
Reform)
2-1(b)    Structure of the Education and Training System (after Policy
Reform)
2-2       Ministry of Education - Organization Chart
2-3(a)    Enrollment in Primary School by Class, Sex and Region  (1988/89)
2-_.(b)    Time Series of Primary School Enrollment (1976/77-1988/89)
2-4       School Population (8-13 years), Enrollment and Gross Enrollment
Ratio by Sex and Region (1983 and 1988)
2-5       Share of School Age Population and Primary School Enrollment
(1988)
2-6       Representation Index in Primary School Enrollment
2-7       Teachers in Primary Schools by Type, Qualifications and Sex
(1988/89)
2-8       Summary of Repeaters in Primary School by Class, Sex and Region
(1988/89)
2-9       Causes of School Drop-out by Class and Sex (1986/87)
3-1       Enrollment and Financial Implications of the Policy Reform
Measures
3-2       Government of The Gambia - Letter on Education Policy
3-3       Review Criteria for Policy and Reform Measures
3-4       Strategy and Program for Construction and Maintenance of Primary
School Classrooms
3-5       Primary School Improvement and Expansion:  Detailed Costs
3-6       Development of Curricula and Instructional Materials
3-7       In-Service and Pre-Service Training of Primary School Teachers
3-8       Restructuring and Improvement of Secondary Education:  Detailed
Costs
3-9       Vocational Education and Training System
3-10      Strengthening Skill Training:  Detailed Costs
3-11      Institutional Development:  Detailed Costs
3-12      Examinations Reform in the Gambia:  Issues and Recommendations
3-13      Summary of Incremental Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Savings
Generated by the Project
3-14      Technical Assistance/Training Program
3-15      Proposed Implementation Schedule
3-16      Civil Works Summary
3-17      Project Cost Summary
3-18      Summary Account (by Project Component)
3-19      Summary Account (Cost Summary)
3-20      Project Components (by Year)
3-21      Financing Plan (by Project Component)
3-22      Estimated Quarterly Disbursements/Disbursement Profile
3-23      Supervision Plan
Map No. IBRD 22248



THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Education
Amount:            SDR 11.3 million (US$14.6 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description:       The principal objective of the proposed project is to
increase access to and improve the quality and efficiency of
education in a sustainable, cost-effective manner. The
project would assist the Government in implementing a
specific investment program, supported by major reforms in
sectoral policies and programs which have been approved by
the Gambian Cabinet and Parliament.
The package of policy measures supported by the project aims
to: (a) improve efficiency and effectiveness in the use of
sector resources; (b) promote the development of private
initiatives in education; (c) increase opportunities for the
enrollment of girls; and (d) improve the quality and cost-
effectiveness of the secondary education system. The
project would finance investments to support: (a) expansion
anl improvement in the quality of primary education through
the construction of 600 new classrooms and the renovation of
200 existing classrooms; revision of curricula and provision
of about 400,000 textbooks and teachers' guides; and
provision of training for 1,200 unqualified primary school
teachers currently employed in the system, and for 100 new
teachers each year; (b) restructuring and improvement in the
quality of secondary education by converting 17 existing
technical secondary schools into lower secondary (middle)
schools equipped with improved science teaching facilities,
updating curricula, and providing 100,000 textbooks and
teachers' guides; (c) strengthening of skills training
through improvements in program content and training
facilities at the Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI)
and the Banjul Vocational Training Center; and (d) reinfor-
cement of the Ministry of Education through developing its
educational planning and management capacities, as well as
its capacity to implement projects; and reorganizing the
national examination system. The project would be imple-
mented over a six-year period, ending December 1996.



- ii -
Benefits and
Risks:              Approximately 38,000 children who would otherwise not gain
access to primary schools will be able to do so as a result
of project investments and the introduction under the
project of efficiency measures and increased budgetary
allocations for the education sector. The primary
enrollment ratio is expected to increase from its present
level of 572 in 1988/89 to 70? by 1996/97. Expanded
coverage of the system would benefit more children in rural
areas and particularly girls. Furthermore, teacher training
programs and provision of textbooks and teachers' guides to
be supported by the project will help lay the groundwork for
the development of a better quality and more re±evant
educatinn system at both primary and secondary levels. With
regard to the restructuring of secondary education, access
to good-quality lower-secondary schools would be increased,
.le structural changes in vocational education and
revisions in --+:am content would make the system more
responsive to manpower needs and enhance the skill levels of
workers and technicians.
The main risks are: (i) Government's ability to implement a
project involving major educational policy reforms and a
large school construction programd; (ii) budgetary con-
straints which could restrict adequate coverage of recurrent
costs to be incurred in meeting targets set by the reform                  -
program; and (iii) communities' commitment and ability to
participate in classroom construction. The first risk is
mitigated by the fact that a general consensus has been
reached in The Gambia with respect to education reforms
supported under the project, culminating in Parliament's
debate and approval of these reforms. The risk is further
reduced by measures under the project aiming to strengthen
the planning, management and project implementation capacit-
ies of the Ministry of Education (MOE), including the
provision of training and technical assistance. The
possible impact of the second risk is reduced by Govern-
ment's agreement on specific measures to increase the
allocation for education, particularly primary education, in
the Government budget. This commitment will be monitored in
the context of annual expenditure reviews. Finally, as
concerns community participation in school construction,
regiona. mobile construction teams, reinforced by additional
technical and construction supervision staff and community
development specialists. will promote communities' motiva-
tion while providing assistance to and supervision of
construction activities.



- iii -
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(USS million)
I. Expanding and Improving Primary Education               Local Foreign Total
a)  Construction and Maintenance of Low-Cost          4.0    5.1    9.1
Classrooms
b) Revision of Curricula and Provision of
Textbooks                                       0.1    1.0    1.1
c)  Teacher Training and Upgrading                    0.6    0.2    0.8
Sub Total                                      4.7    6.3   11.0
II. Restructuring and Tmproving Secondary Education
a)  Refurbishing Secondary Technical Secondary        0.1    0.4    0.5
Schools
b) Curriculum and Provision of Instructional
Materials                                        -     0.4    0.4
Sub-Total                                       0.1    0.8    0.9
III. Strengthening Skills Training
a)   Gambia Technical Training Institute              0.1    0.3    0.4
b)   Banjul Skill Training Center                     0.1    0.3    i.4
Sub-Total                                       0.2    0.6    0.8
IV.  Strengthening Key Sectoral Institutions
a)  The Ministry of Education                         0.1    0.7    0.8
b)  The Project Implementation Unit                   0.4    1.3    1.7
c)  The Examinations Council                          0.1    0.4    0.5
Sub-Total                                       0.6    2.4    3.0
Total Base Costs                                           5.6   10.1   15.7
Physical Contingencies                                  0.6    1.0    1.6
Price Contingencies                                     2.0    1.9    3.9
Total Contingencies                                        2.6    2.9    5.5
Total Project Costs                                        8.2   13.0   21.2
Financing Plan                  (USS million)
IDA                                  14.6
EEC                             .    3.0
Communities                           2.5
Government                            1.1
TOTAL                                21.2
Estimated Disbursements
--------US$ million ----------------
FY                   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Annual               1.3    2.8    3.2    2.0    2.0       1.8    1.5
Cumulative           1.3    4.1    7.3    9.3   11.3    13.1   14.6



- iv _
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data (1988)
General (1988)
GNP per Capita                       US$220
Land Area
Population                           0.8 million
of which urban                     35S
Population Density                   300 per Sq Km
Population growth rate (1988)
Total                     3.5Z
Urban                     7.22
Crude Birth Rate                     49  per thousand
Crude Death Rate                     22  per thousand
Infant Mortality Rate                160 per thousand
Life Expectancy at Birth             43 years
School Enrollment (1988)
Enrollment Ratio          Z Female
Primary School                 57Z                        462
Secondary                                                   -
Higher
Distribution of Recurrent Education Budget (1988)
Primary                        412
Secondary                      272
Post-Secondary                 1O0
Vocational/Technical            62
Administration                 162
Total        1002
Recurrent Expenditure per Student (1989-90) 1/
Primary                        US$50    equivalent
Secondary                      US$115   equivalent
Post-Secondary                 US$2,060 equivalent
1/   Based on 1989-90 budget estimates and including 1989 civil service
salary increases.



THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Ministry of Education, Youth, Sports and Culture (MEYSC):
"Education Policy: 1988-2003", Banjul, November 1988.
2.   Brian Garvey and J. M. Wood, Consultants (prepared for MEYSC):
"Report on the Reorganization of the Ministry of Education", 1988.
3.   MEYSC:  "Guidelines for In-Service Teacher Training in The Gambia",
Banjul, 1989.
4.   MEYSC (prepared by Cambridge Education Consultants):  "Project
Proposal to the World Bank" Banjul, January 1989.
5.   Carmelle Denning (Consultant):  "Appraisal of an Education
Project", June 1989.
6.   The Gambia College:  "Project Proposal for ln-Service and Pre-Service
Training", Banjul, 1989.
7.   Jacques Waechter (Consultant):  "Appraisal of an Education Project",
1989 (Report of the appraisal mission architect).
8.   MEYSC:    "Educational Statistics for 1986-87", Banjul, 1988.
9.   S. Syrimis (Consultant):  "A Review of Vocational Training Program
Activities: Key Issues and Programs for Action", April 1989.
10.  MEYSC:  "Women in Education in The Gambia:  Limitations, Constraints,
Strategies and Costs", Banjul, 1990.
11.  MEYSC:  "Survey of Madarassas, 1989", Banjul, 1990.
12.  African Develonment Fund:  "Appraisal Report:  Primary Education
Improvement and Educational Planning Project", 1986.
13.  Ministry of Finance and Trade:  "Budget Speech", June 1989.
14.  Government of The Gambia:   "Estimates of Recurrent Revenue and
Expenditure 1988/89 with Estimates of Development Expenditures
1988/89", Banjul, 1988.
15.  M.R. Shatoga (Consultant):  "Recurrent Expenditure of Development
Projects in The Gambia: 1987/88 - 1992/93", December 1988.
16.  Measures to Promote Enrollment and Achievement of Females - Plan of
Action, Banjul, April 1990.



;  IC OF THE '  A
EDUCATIOh SECTOR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of The Gambia has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (IDA) to firance an education sector
project designed to help implement a program of educational reform and
restructuring that would expand access to and improve the quality of
education and training, and optimize the allocation and use of available
resources. Total project costs are estimated at US$21.2 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component estimated at
US$13.0 million equivalent. The Government would contribute US$1.1 million
equivalent, local communities would provide labor and local materials
valued at US$2.5 million equivalent, the EEC would contribute LTS$3.0
million equivalent, and the proposed IDA Credit would finance US$14.6
million equivalent.
1.02      The proposed project constitutes IDA's second investment in
education in The Gambia, and the first in support of a comprehensive
program of reform and restructuring of the education sector. It would help
iapleir nt the Government's Education Policy for the period 1988-2003
adopt-d in 1988 after extensive consultations in The Gambia and with donor
agencies including IDA. The policy and reform package to be implemented
over the 1990-1996 project implementation period was finalized with IDA's
assistanice.
II. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
A.   Structure of the Education System
2.01      The Gambia's education system (Annex 2.1(a)) essentially follows
the structure inherited from the British colonial period. It currently 'las
six years of primary educatior., at the completion of which stidents tak' an
examination (common entrance examination or CEE) which determines their
eligibility for entrance into secondary school. Secondary education
consists of a five-year academic stream (secondary high schools) and a
four-year technical stream (secondary technical schools). Secondary high
schools offer a five-year academic program (Forms I to V, or grades 7 to
11) and prepare students for the "ordinary' or 0-level examinations of the
West African Examinations Council (WAEC). These qualifications provide
access to some post-secondary educational institutions, but not to the
university. Some secondary high schools offer Form VI classes (equivalent
to grades 12 and 13) leading to the Oadvancedw or A-level examit.ations of
the WAEC. A-level qualifications provide access to higher education,
either in-country at the Gambia College (two years post-secondary) or
outside the country at universities and other post-secondary institutions.
Technical secondary schools offer a combined program of academic education
and skills training in a terminal four-year program.



2.02       In school year 1988-89, there were about 190 primary schools
under the Ministry of Education (MOE), with a total enrollment of about
70,000 students of whom about 27,000 or 392 were girls (Annex 2.3(a)). In
addition, there were about 34 primary schools operated by non-governmental
agencies, with a total enrollment of about 4,COO students. There were
eight secondary high schools (two with A-level programs), with a total
enrollment of about 5,000 students, and 17 techrnical secondaty schools,
with a &otal enrollment of about 11,000 students.
2.0       Post-secondary education of two to three years' duration is
provided by the Gambia College, which consists of four schools: Education
(teacher training), Agriculture, Nursing and Midwifery, and Public Health.
In academic year 1988-89, total enrollment at the Gambia College was about
350 students, of whom about 200 were enrolled in the School of Education.
The only other post-secondary institution in The Gambia is the Gambia
Technical Training Institute (GTTI) which provides advanced skills training
in technical and commercial subjects in a two-year, technician-level
program, and which had a 1988-89 enrollment of about 500 students. There
is no national university in The Gambia.
e
2.04      Vocational Education and Training.   The National Vocational
Training Board (NVTB), established under the Vocational Training Act of
1979, is responsible for formulating policies, developing guidelines, and
coordinating training activities on a national scale. The NVTB administers
four departments, responsible for job classification and trade testing,
curriculum development, in-plant training, and vocational rehabilitation.
In 1989, the NVTB program encompassed approximately 1,000 students, and had
an output of about 250 graduates. The NVTB program is carried out in the
following institutions: (a) the GTTI, which enrolls about 500 students in
technical programs such as engineering and commercial subjects and in
technic-l teacher training; (b) the National Vocational Training Center
(NVTC) which provides craft-level training in mechanical and construction
trades to about 120 trainees per annum; (c) a Rural Vocational Training
Cenzer designed to provide artisanal skills training to villagers; and (d)
some NGO-supported vocational centers providing training programs in basic
skills for girls, hotel service training and a variety of small-scale
programs in technical, commercial and agricultura:t skills. In addition,
on-the-job training programs are conducted by some ministries and public
enterprises (transport, communications). The vocational and technical
education system is discussed in detail in Annex 3-9.
2.05      Teacher Training.  The Gambia College School of Education
provides two-year pre-service teacher training programs for primary school
teachers and lower-secondary (grades 7-9) school teachers. Entry
requirements for the primary school teacher training program include four
passes in tt.e GCE 0-level examinations. Those who successfully complete
the course obtain the Primary Teacher Certificate, and are appointed to
Grade 6 in the Civil Service salary scale. In 1989/90, 144 student-
teachers were enrolled in the primary teacher training program, of whom 100
were in the first year. In 'e7ent years, the production of primary
teachers has averaged about .5 teachers per annum.  The sharp increase in
first-year enrollment in 1984/90 reflects the Government's concern to
increase the number of qualified primary teachers and improve the quality
of primary education. The Gambia College School of Education also trains



-3-
secondary teachers, in a two-year program. Entry requirements for the
secondary teacher training program are a minimum of five passes in the GCE
0-level examinations. Those who successfully complete the progtam receive
the Higher Teacher Certificate and start their teaching career at Grade 7
of the Civil Service salary scale. In 1989/90, 60 student-teachers were
enrolled in this program, of whom 47 were in the first year. Teachers for
the upp'r levels of high school (grades 10-13) are trained at the degree
level in universities abroad; they enter the teaching service at Grade 8 of
the Civil Service salary scale. Teachers who do not have formal
pedagogical qualifications are considered unqualified.
2.06      Private Education.  In addition to the primary schools operated
by nor-governmental organizations (NGOs) such as Action Aid, there are a
number of privately-operated Islamic schools :madarassas), which provide
religious and some basic education in the Arabic language. Their combined
1988-89 enrollment was estimated at 7,000 students. Madarassas attract
substantial financial assistance from foreign religious organizations and
prefer to operate independently of Government, fearing interference in
their religious teachings. There are also a few fee-paying, privately
owned and operated primary schools, which enroll only a few hundred
students. There are no private secondary schools in the Gambia.
B.   Main Issues in Education
1.   Low and Inequitable Access to Primary Education
2.07      The Gambia has one of the highest primary school enrollment
ratios among the Sahelian Countries (572 in 1988). However, this ratio is
below the average for Sub-Sahara African countries (77X), and hides marked
disparit:es in access by region and sex. The enrollment ratio in the area
comprising Banjul, Kombo/St. Mary and ''.-ern Division, the most densely
populated and urbanized part of the country, is about 86Z, in contrast to
232 for the Upper River Division in the eastern part of the country. The
enrollment ratio for girls is about 46Z niationally, but this varies from
742 in the urban areas to 14% in the rural eastern part of the country.
The low enrollment of girls in rural areas is a reflection of the lack of
school places and of parental attitudes toward the education of girls.
Rural communities, farther away from modern sector job opportunities, have
lower modern sector employment expectations for their children following
schooling; and wlhen there is a shortage of school places, preference is
given to educating boys who may have a better chance of obtaining work in
the modern sector.
2.08      Low enrollment ratios are in part due to inadequate physical
faci1.ties.  Generally, communities are responsible for constructing
primary schools, which are then staffed and operated by Government. Many
communities make great efforts to construct schools with their own
resources. However, because of low incomes and lack of organizational and
construction skills, the contribution of communities to school construction
is severely limited. The cost of imported building materials for building
permanent structures is generally more than communities can afford; and
when materials are available, traditional construction methods often result
in poorly-built structures requiring frequent maintenance which communities
find costly to provide. However, communities respond positively to outside



- 4 -
assistance for school construction, as evidenced by the good results of the
Action Aid (a local NGO) primary school development program.
2.09      Religious and cultural faczors are another reason for low
enrollment ratios in primary educat.on. Strong demand of parents fcr
Islamic education also limits enrollment in public schools. Although
public schools provide both Christiar. and Islamic religious education, many
Muslim parents consider the Islamic education provided in public schools
inadequate, and are unwilling to enroll their children in these schools.
This is particularly the case with girls living in rural areas where
parents look to religion to provide moral development and protection from
the outside world. Parents therefore prefer to enroll their children in
madarassas where the approach to religion is co-"idered more acceptable.
However, madarassas teach only in Arabic and provide poor quality
education; students who graduate from them are ill-equipped for entering
secondary education or for finding work in the modern sector. Pressure
from parents to broaden the education provided in madarassas is forcing
some of them to adjust their programs and become more amenable to
Government assistance.  Discussions have started between the Government and
Islamic organizations on specific measures to increase the role of
madarassas in providing good quality primary education.
2.   Low Interrnal Efficiency and Poor Quality of Primary Education
2.10      The internal efficiency of the primary education system is low.
The number of pupil-years per graduate is 8.4 instead of the planned 6, and
over 30Z of the students never complete primary school. This low internal
efficiency is the result of a high repetition rate averaging about 19?. and
a 30Z dropout rate. The reasons for the low internal efficiency are
unclear, as there ire no reliable data on which to base an evaluation. The
common entrance exam'..ation (para 2.01), for which data are available, is
principally a mechanism for selecting pupils for secondary school entry and
does not test mastery of the curriculum. However, the large proportion of
unqualified teachers (about 54?), inadequate supplies of teaching
materials, and weak organization and management of schools suggest that the,
quality of eduction is poor, conditions which are consistent with low
internal efficiency. In rural areas where school inputs are particularly
scarce and of low quality, repetition rates are higher than the national
average. The repetition rate for the Upper River Division is about 26Z, in
contrast to 14? for the Banjul area. There appears to be little difference
in repetition rates between the sexes, the average for girls being 172,
compared to 19? overall.
2.11      The 302 drop-out rate overall is explained by a large proportion
of students dropping out in grade 1 (9Z), and in grades 5 and 6 (6? for
each). The reasons for dropping out in grade 1 include distance between
home and school, and some parents withdrawing their children from school
when their expectations of achievements in grade 1 are not met. Dropping
out from grades 5 and 6 is largely the result of older childrens'
obligation to provide labor on the farm or in the household, and of girls
getting married; twice as many girls drop out from grades 5 and 6 as
compared to boys. A significant number of boys are also withdrawn to
enroll them in Islamic studies.



- 5 -
3.   Inappropriate Structure of Secondary Education
2.12      The Government proposes to introduce a 3-3-2 system of secondary
education: 3 years of lower-secondary education (middle schools), 3 years
of upper-secondary education (high schools), plus two years of "A" level
education for those who intend to pursue their studies at universities
abroad. The existing 4-year secondary technical schools would be phased
out and replaced by the new middle schools. The structure of secondary
technical education (a terminal four-year program combining academic and
vocational educatior.) is inappropriate with respect to its objectives, its
content and its output. The early streaming of primary school leavers (at
age 13 or 14) into technical secondary education is both arbitrary and
premature, while the quality of both the academic programs and the skills
training courses is low. Factors which contribute to the poor quality of
technical secondary education include the lack of training facilities and
equipment, unqualified or inexperienced teachers (particularly of technical
subjects), and inadequate provision of textbooks and instructional
materials. In addition, technical secondary schools are seriously
underfunded: in 1989-90, their recurrent budgets were based on an average
allocation of US$50 per student per annum as compared to US$115 per student
per annum for general secondary schools (these figures compare to average
unit costs of US$74 for general secondary and US$1085 for technical
secondary schools in the Sahelian Region). As a result, secondary
technical school graduates end up ill-prepared in both academic and
technical skills; they have limited access to further education or
training, and they are inadequately prepared for employment as skilled
workers or for becoming self-employed.
4.   Financial and Budgetary Constraints
2.13      Education expenditures as a percentage of total Government
recurrent expenditures have declined over the last five years, from 19Z of
the budget in 1984/85 to 13? in 1988/89, adversely affecting the provision
of education. Significantly, this decline was not shared equally by all
education sub-sectors: in spite of Government's declared policy to give
priority to primary education, its share of the MOE budget declined from
47Z in 1984/85 to about 41? in 1988/89, while expenditures for secondary
and post-secondary education, and for education administration, increased.
Following the salary increases awarded to all civil servants in 1988/89,
education's share of the 1989/90 budget significantly increased to 20.5?,
well above the 15? average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Along with this
increase, however, the allocation for primary education fell to about 382
of the MOE budget. The decrease in expenditures for primary education is
beginning to have an effect on enrollment ratios, which have dropped from
61Z in 1983 to 57? in 1988.
2.14      In spite of relatively low expenditures on primary education,
unit recurrent costs, measured as a percentage of GNP per capita, are high.
In 1989, the per-pupil cost was 25? of per capita GNP, compared to an
average of 142 for the SSA region as a whole. These high unit costs are
largely the result of the inefficient use of resources, particularly
teachers. In 1989/90, for example, the pu.pil/teacher ratio at primary
level was 30:1, considerably lower than the average of 42:1 for the SSA
region. It is clear that significant cost reductions could be obtained by



- 6 -
increasing the average primary student/teacher ratio, a measure which is
strongly supported by the proposed project. The unit cost of secondary
education, at 0.62 of per capita GNP. is signiificantly lower than the
average of 1.12 of per capita GNP for SSA, reflecting inadequate
expenditures on textbooks and teaching materials at that level, and
relatively low teacher salaries. However, even at the secondary level
further efficiencies can be obtained by increasing the student/teacher
ratio from the current 21:1 to about 30:1.                                                   -
2.15      To support the Government's objectives of improving education
quality, accommodating the rapidly increasing school-age population (annual
growth rate is about 3.5?), and raising the primary enrollment ratio from
its current level of 57X to 80X by the year 2003, the education budget
should not only be increased but also used more efficiently. Since unit
costs, particularly at primary level, are high (para 2.12), opportunities
for cost savings, such as increasing student/teacher ratios, decreasing the
cost of teachers' salaries, and improving the utilization of existing
equipment and infrastructure, should be vigorously pursued. Other sources
of cost savings exist in the areas of education administration and
examinations.
C.   Government's Sector Strategy
2.16      The Gambia's Education Policy Statement of June 1988, covering
the 15-year period 1988-2003, summarizes the Government's objectives for
the education sector as follows:
(a) Restructuring the school system: the current system will be
changed into a 6-3-3-2 structure (6 years of primary education
followed by 3 years of lower-secondary education, accessible to
all children; 3 years of upper-secondary and 2 years of post-
secondary education for selected students).
(b) Maximizing resources for education: application of internal
efficiency measures such as increasing student/teacher ratios
and using double-shift and multi-grade teaching; mobilization of
additional financial resources such as user fees, training
levies, and community self-help schemes for school construction;
reallocation of budgetary resources in favor of basic education;
and improved mobilization of external aid.
(c) Improving the performance of education sector personnel:
development and implementation of cost-effective staff training
and upgrading programs, preferably in-country.
(d) Improving education sector management: strengthening the MOE's
capacity for long-term educational planning, monitoring and
evaluation; strengthening regional administration capacities;
and improving project implementation.
2.17      Under this policy, the Government's long-term objective is to
provide nine years of 'basic" education to all children in the relevant age
group. However, realizing the current resource constraints, priority would
be given to the provision of primary education (six years). At the



secondary level, a unified, general secondary education system would be
introduced, consisting of three years of lower-secondary or middle school
(grades 7-9), followed by senior secondary education, also of three years
duration (grades 10-12). The merging of the secondary technical schools
with the regular (academic) schools into a general system of secondary
education constitutes a major reform intended to streamline the system,
provide a more relevant curriculum ke.g., more science and mathematics),
and improve cost-effectiveness (the new middle schools would not require
specialist teachers and equipment). Vocational training programs would be
redesigned to provide middle school graduates with training in occupational
and commercial skills. Other features of the Government's education reform
include: improving the quality of instruction at primary and post-primary
levels; introducing more reliable systems for monitoring, evaluating and
selecting students; improving the efficiency of primary education through
the introduction of cost-saving measures such as double-shift and multi-
grade teaching, use of polyvalent teachers in primary schools, and
increasing teachers' contact hours; gradual reduction of student
allowances in secondary and post-secondary institutions; and increased
community participation ("cost-sharing") in school construction and in the
provision of instructional materials.
2.18      These policy objectives and plans are essentially sound and
warrant support from the international donor community. To implement them,
the Government has developed a number of sector reform and restructuring
measures which would be implemented with IDA s assistance under the
proposed project.
D.   The Bank Group's Role
2.19      Past Investments.  IDA has financed one education project in The
Gambia (Credit 792-GAM for US$5.5 million) which was closed on June 30,
1983. This project supported technical and trade training, management
training, and health and science education, areas in which the lack of
facilities and suitable programs had become constraints on development.
The project included constructing and equipping a technical institute (260
places), a management development institute (150 places), a training school
for nurses, workshops for technical secondary schools, and three regional
education centers. In addition, equipment, materials, technical assistance
and fellowships were provided to help strengthen HOE's capacity for
educational planning and project implementation. The Project Completion
and Audit Reports conclude that the project objectives were achieved, in
particular with respect to the Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI)
and the Management Development Institute (MDI) which were established as
efficient and viable institutions, responsive to labor market needs. The
MDI continues to receive technical assistance from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and bilateral agencies and is making a
particularly useful contribution by providing in-service training in
management, finance and related fields for middle-level managers in the
public and private sectors.
2.20      In other areas of human resource development, a National Health
Development Project (Credit 1760-GAM for US$5.6 million) is under
implementation. It is designed to strengthen health sector management and
financing, extend primary health care to underserved areas, tra_n nursing



- 8 -
staff, and strengthen family planning programs. Its pr. gress to date is
satisfactory. In addition, a first free-standing Women ..n Development (WID)
Project is being processed in parallel, which would strengthen and support
women's participation in social and economic development.
2.21      Bank Strategy.  Government authorities and the Bank recognize
the low level of human resource development as the single greatest
constraint to economic growth, and identify the high rate of population
growth (3.5Z per annum), the inadequate level of basic education, and the
limited access to and poor quality of health care as the underlying causes.
With respect to the education sector, the Bank's strategy essentially
consists of assisting the Government in implementing its recently approved
Education Policy for the period 1988-2003 developed with Bank 3upport over
the last few years. The proposed project would support the first phase of
a program which focuses on issues of quality and access in primary
education, relevance of secondary education, and improved cost-
effectiveness and management across the sector. In the course of
implementation of this proposed project the Bank would continue to assist
the Government to further develop its education plans and programs and
monitor their implementation. The Bank would also support the Government
in its efforts to coordinate donor assistance to human resource
development.
E.   Donors' Role in Education
2.22      Donors have played an important role in education in The Gambia
by financing the development of educational infrastructure (buildings and
equipment), the training of Gambian nationals (scholarships) and
institutional strengthening (technical assistance). The major multilateral
donors include IDA, the African Development Bank (AfDB), the Islamic
Development Fund (IDF) and the European Economic Community (EEC), all of
whom have been involved in all major educational efforts undertaken by The
Gambia. They have provided the bulk of The Gambia's education development
(investment) budget. The principal bilateral donor is the ODA (UK), which
continues to provide a significant program of technical assistance and
overseas scholarships, particularly in the areas of teacher training,
science teaching, curriculum development and educational planning. Some
NGOs are active in the education sector (Action Aid, in particular),
essentially in primary school construction, while volunteer organizations
such as the UK-based VSO provide low-cost technical assistance in
vocational training and village-level educational activities including
school construction.
2.23      Prospects for continued donor assistance to education in The
Gambia remain good. The EEC has expressed interest in providing further
support for primary school construction and rehabilitation; the ODA is
expected to continue its traditional program of technical assistance and
scholarships; and the IDF has an active program of assistance for the
development of Islamic schools. The contributions of these various donors
have in the past been largely uncoordinated; however, the recently approved
education policy provides a framework for improved coordination of donors
assisting in the development of The Gambia's education sector.



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Prolect Objectives and Description
3.01      The principal objective of the proposed project is to increase
access to and improve the quality and efficiency of education in a
sustainable, cost-effective manner. The project would assist the
Government in implementing a specific investment program, supported by
major reforms in sectoral policies and programs which have been approved by
the Gambian Cabinet and Parliament. Specifically, the project would:
(a) expand and improve the quality of primary education, including an
increase in the primary school enrollment ratio from the current 57Z to 70Z
by 1996/97; (b) restructure and improve the quality of secondary education,
including the introduction of a new secondary education system of two
three-year cycles, and conversion of 17 secondary technical schools into
general secondary schools; (c) strengthen the skills training programs
through improvements in program content and training facilities at the
Gambia Technical Training Institute and the National Vocational Training
Center; (d) reinforce the Ministry of Education's planning and management
capacities, as well as its capacity to implement projects; and (e)
reorganize the national examination system.
B.   The Policy Framework
3.02      The package of policy measures supported by the project are
designed to: (a) improve efficiency and effectiveness in the use of sector
resources; (b) promote development of private initiatives in education; (c)
increase opportunities for enrollment of girls; and (d) improve the quality
and cost-effectiveness of secondary education.
(a) Measures to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the use of
sector resources
3.03      Measure 1: More efficient use of teachers and classrooms in
primary education. The primary education pupil/teacher ratio in The
Gambia, currently at 30:1, is considerably lower than the average of 43:1
for Sahelian countries. In its 1988 Education Policy, the Government
proposed to increase this ratio to 40:1 by 2003; however, in order to
further reduce teacher costs, this target was revised at project appraisal
to 45:1 which evidence suggests can be maintained without loss in quality.
This pupiliteacher ratio would be achieved through: (a) consolidation of
some schools -- uncontrolled development of primary schools has resulted in
an over-concentration of schools in certain rural areas and consequently
low average class sizes. These schools would be consolidated into larger
units so that class sizes increase and teachers are used more efficiently;
(b) use of double-shift and multi-grade teaching -- as concerns multi-grade
teaching. this method would be introduced in rural areas where class sizes
are too low to economically assign one teacher per class; moreover, this
practice would be extended as primary education expands. Double-shift
teaching (one teacher per classroom for two cohorts of pupils) would be
introduced in urban areas; and (c) retraining of some underutilized
specialist teachers -- Koranic and home economics teachers, which



- 10 -
constitute about 202 of all teachers, and carry a small teaching load,
would be retrained to the extent possible to teach other subjects in the
curriculum.
3.04      In order to ensure successful introduction of these measures,
which require careful planning and gradual introduction to gain acceptance
by the public, the Government is preparing an implementation plan
including: (a) a school map which would, inter alia, identify areas in
which schools may be consolidated, and where multi-grade and double-shift
methods would be introduced; (b) an approach for double-shift teaching; (c)
annual targets for introducing multi-grade and double-shift teaching; (d)
teacher training programs covering techniques of multi-grade teaching and
training of polyvalent teachers; and (e) a campaign to inform parents of
the merits of multi-grade and double-shift teaching methods. Receipt of
this implementation plan, sa'.isfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness. This plan would be implemented starting school-year
1991/92.
3.05      Measure 2:  Establishing a more equitable salary structure for
primary teachers. The project would correct an anomaly in the teacher
salary scale by creating a new category for teachers who satisfactorily
complete an approved in-service teacher training program. In the past,
graduates of in-service programs were promoted to the same salary scale
(grade 6) as graduates from the pre-service training course with much
higher levels of qualifications. Graduates of the proposed in-service
teacher training course to be introduced by the project, which would
replace previous ad hoc training programs, would be promoted from grade 1
(unqualified teachers) to grade 3 in the salary scale. Promotion from
grade 1 to grade 3 would represent a 45Z salary increase and the assurance
of a civil service appointment, considered sufficient incentive to
undertake in-service training. Establishment of this new salary scale for
upgraded teachers would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.06      Measure 3:  Reallocating government budgetary resources to the
education sector. Although between 1984/85 and 1987188 the share of
education in the government budget fell from 192 to 132, it increased
dramatically in 1989/90 to 20.5Z as a result of civil service salary
adjustments, which benefitted education relatively more because of the
large number of civil servants employed in the sector. However, to allow
for a further expansion of primary education and to restore the imbalance
created in previous years, the MOE share of the Government's budget would
need to increase from 20.5Z in 1989/90 to 22.42 in 1997. This measure is
linked to the SAL II operation, and compliance will be verified in the
context of the SAL II-related annual public expenditure reviews.
3.07      Measure 4: MOE budget reallocation in favor of primary
education. The increased resources to be allocated to the education sector
(cf. Measure 3) would allow the MOE budget to grow by 4.32 annually (in
real terms) between 1990 and 1997. Within this overall budget, the
allocation to pr-mary education would need to increase by 6? per year to
achieve the targeted enrollment ratio of 702 by 1997. In order to provide
this increased share of resources for primary education, the growth rate in
the budgets of Gambia College and National Vocational Training Center
(NVTC) would be limited to 2Z. This 22 limitation is justified in light of



- 11 -
the excessively high growth rate of 16Z over the 1984/85-1987/88 period,
which resulted in excess capacity in administration and staffing at present
enrollment levels. For example, enrollment in the primary school teacher
training course at Gambia College could be increased from the current level
of 144 to 240 between 1989/90-1996/97 simply by increasing the
student/staff ratio to 20:1. With respect to the NVTC, a 2Z growth rate is
considered adequate given the proposed integration of the management of
this center and that of the GTTI, which would lead to efficiency gains.  In
addition, the growth rate in the budget for central administration would be
limited to l annually, a rate considered adequate in view of the large
increases in the administrative budget in the recent past. All other
education sub-sector budgets would grow at 32 per annum, the expected
growth rate of the Government budget.
(b) Measures to promote private initiatives in education
3.08      Measure 5:  Increasing private financing and provision of
education. Apart from a few independent primary schools, the Government
controls and finances all formal educational institutions, although there
is some cost recovery at every level. In primary education tuition is
free, and books are provided by the school for use during school hours.
Some students, however, buy their own textbooks. Secondarv school students
pay tuition and lab fees in addition to buying textbooks, but fees
represent only about 152 of non-salary operating costs. Government
proposes to increase user fees in secondary education, and to introduce
levies for technical education and vocational training, actions which would
be supported by the project. During negotiations, Government provided
assurances that it would, by March 31, 1991, have completed a study and
made specific proposals acceptable to IDA for increasing tuition and user
fees for secondary schools and for introducing training levies for
technical and vocational training programs, and that it would start
implementing these proposals starting school year 1991/92.
3.09      At both the primary and secondary levels, there is a growing
interest in private education because of scarcity of school places in the
public system, and there appears to be a willingness on the part of parents
to pay. The Government proposes to encourage private education by
introducing measures to promote the development of private sector and NGO-
operated schools. Government assistance to private education would begin
with the madarassas (para. 2.06) which are fee-paying, and have expanded
rapidly, particularly in areas not served by Government schools. Measures
to assist the madarassas would include: (a) providing pre- and in-service
teacher training to madarassa teachers; (b) providing English-language
textbooks and teachers' guides in core subjects (English, mathematics,
science) on the same conditions as for public schools; and (c) providing
assistance to communities for construction of madarassas on the same basis
as for constructing Government-owned schools. During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that it would furnish to IDA, by March 31,
1991, a plan, satisfactory to IDA, specifying criteria for the provision of
assistance to madarassas, and that this plan would be implemented starting
school year 1991/92.



- 12 -
.
(c)  Measures to increase opportunities for enrollment of  irls                     -
3.10      Underlying the inequitable participation of girls in the
education system are the limited number of school places coupled with
prevailing attitudes and practices as to the traditional roles of women in
society. Other factors which hamper successful completion and achievement
of those girls who do gain access to education include negative teacher
attitudes and behavior concerning female scholastic ability and potential,
a lack of positive role models, competing demands on girls' time, early
marriage and pregnancy -- the latter factor being compounded by the fact
that the late age of school cntry (eight years) gives girls only a few
years of schooling before they reach puberty.
3.11      The Government of The Gambia is, however, strongly committed to
addressing women's issues and some of the factors which are at the roots of
the noted gender disparities in education opportunities are being addressed
in the context of a free-standing Women in Development (WID) Project which
is being processed in parallel to this operation. The WID Project, through
its information, education and communication activities will attempt to
bring about changes in prevailing perceptions, attitudes, and practices
which are having a negative impact on education and employment
opportunities for women. The WID project will also promote non-formal
education and skills training programs geared specifically toward women.
3.12      The proposed project will focus on measures within the education
system to increase female enrollment at all levels and improve female
achievement. In fact, agreement has already been reached with Government
as regards the school entry age, which will be lowered from eight to seven
years by 1990/91, and to six years by 1991/92. Other actions to be
supported by the project have been defined by an interministerial task
force which recently completed its work. A plan of action, reflecting the
final outcome of ongoing efforts to build consensus for the task force's
recommendations, has been reviewed and agreed at negotiations, and
includes:
3.13      Measure 6:  Increase the proportion of women in the teaching
force as a means to provide more role models for school-age girls. In
1988/89, of a total of 2,420 primary teachers, only 809 were women and less
than half were considered 'qualified'. Measures proposed under the project
include the application of admission criteria to primary teacher training
so that by school year 1992/93 at least 30 percent, and by school year
1996/97 at least 40 percent of all students admitted be women. Moreover,
measures will be taken to promote a greater representation of female
teachers for secondary schools in subjects such as science, mathematics,
and technical courses, which are traditionally male-dominated.
3.14      Measure 7:  Support the development of unbiased educational
materials. The elimination of sexual bias and stereotypes of women in the
classroom is essential to the development of women's roles as productive
participants in a developing economy and equal partners in the home.
Activities to be undertaken incl-ude research to be completed by June 30,
1991, to define the depth and scope of this phenomenon, and the
development of appropriate training programs for teachers aimed at
eliminating sex role stereotyping in the classroom, and developing gender-



- 13 -
neutral pedagogical materials. The new methodologies and materials would
be developed in 1990/91 and introduced to teachers through seminars and
workshops starting in school year 1991192.
3.15      Measure 8:  Actively encourage girls to enroll in more
traditionally male-dominated classes such as science, mathematics, and
technical courses. In this regard, proposed measures include the
organization of Science, Technology and Mathematics Education (STME) clubs
in schools, in which girls would be encouraged to take part, as well as the
development of special incentives (e.g., fellowships, awards, internships)
for girls who perform well. Workshops for educators would also be
organized to further the encouragement of girls to participate in these
areas of study; and
3.16      Measure 9:  Incorporate family life education programs into
school curricula. Some urban schools have begun to include family life
education in their curricula. These efforts would be expanded to other
schools and programs would be introduced to foster a sense of self-esteem,
values, and responsible decision making in young people as regards their
understanding of and commitment to the family, the environment and the
community. Curricula would be revised and teaching materials produced
starting in 1990/91, along with teacher training activities to be supported
under the project, starting in school year 1991/92.
(d) Measures to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of the
secondary education system
3.17      Measure 10:  Restructuring of secondary general and technical
education. A more cc,t-effective secondary education system would be
introduced, consisting of a three-year lower-secondary cycle (middle
school) followed by a three-year upper-secondary cycle (high school). A
small number of students would have the option of completing two extra
grades to obtain the 'Al level. The existing secondary technical schools
would be phased out over a four-year period starting in school year
1992/93. There would be no new admission into the first year of these
scht)ls in that year, and the spaces freed by the reduced enrollment in
technical schools would be used for the first intake of students to the new
middle schools. The remaining three grades of the technical schools would
be dropped at the rate of one per year until they are completely phased out
by the end of school year 1995/96. Following the establishment of the new
structure, enrollment in the middle schools would be about 20.000 compared
to the 14,000 students currently enrolled in junior high and secondary
technical schools.
3.18      Provision of goou quality general education to a larger number
of middle school students would increase the number of lower secondary
graduates with adequate basic education for technical training, and for
playing a more active role in the economy. Student intake into the new
high schools would start in school year 1995/96, to be completed in
1997/98. The current Form IV would be phased out in 1995/96, and Form V
the following year.  Estimates of the budgetary requirements for the new
secondary system show that in order to modestly increase the transition
rate from the primary to the middle schools and to control enrollment at
the second cycle secondary level, the annual budgets for the two levels



- 14 -
should grow at 52 and 1.72, respectively, following the introduction of the
new system.   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
the above restructuring program would be implemented starting in school
year 1992/93.
3.19      Monitoring of Policy Reform Measures.  The Government's
commitment to apply and implement the reform and restructuring measures are
reflected in an education policy letter, a copy of which is provided at
Annex 3-2. Progress in implementing the project's policy package would be
monitored in the co..text of joint annual implementation reviews scheduled
to take place no later than April 30 of each year. starting in 1991 (para
1 53). In addition, a joint mid-term review of the progress made in
achieving project objectives, including the policy reform measures, would
be held by April 30, 1994. During negotiations, Government provided
assurances that the joint annual and mid-term reviews will be held on the
dates indicated. To assist in these reviews, a summary of the proposed
reform and restructuring measures, as well as the criteria for reviewing
their implementation, is given in Annex 3-3. The monitoring and evaluation
of activities designed to promote the participation of females in education
will be given special emphasis. To determine the effectiveness of the
proposed measures (paras 3.13-3.16), Government would maintain the
interministerial task force (to be enlarged to include community and other
opinion leaders) and designate an officer in the MOE to, inter alia,
monitor trends in female enrollments and evaluate how measures undertaken
affect these trends and, based on these observations, make recommendations
as concerns future measures to be implemented.  In addition, activities
under the WID project and the present operation will be coordinated to
achieve maximum effectiveness.
C.   The Investment Component
3.20      While the policy framework would promote a more cost-effective
use of resources, the investment component would assist the Government in
financing actions required to attain the policy objectives. This
investment program, to be implemented over the six-year period 1991-1996,
consists of:
(a) expanding and improving primary education through:
(i) rehabilitation of about 200 classrooms and constructior. of about
600 low-cost classrooms to accommodate about 38,000 students;
(ii) revision of curriculum and provision of about 400,000 student
textbooks and teachers' guides; and (iii) upgrading about 1,200
unqualified primary teachers through in-service training, and
increasing the pre-service trainitg capacity to about 100 teachers
per annum;
(b) restructuring and improving secondary education through:
(i) converting workshops in 17 existing technical secondary schools
into general science laboratories and classrooms for the proposed new
middle schools to be established under the project; (ii) revision of
curricula and provision of about 100,000 student textbooks and
teachers' guides;



- 15 -
(e) strengthening skills training through assistance for the Gambia
Technical Training Institute (GTTI) and the National Vocational
Training Center (NVTC); and
(d) strengthening key sect3ral institutions through:
(i) reorganizing and reinforcing educational planning and management
capacities of the MOE; (ii) strengthening MOE's project
implementation capacity; and (iii) reorganizing the national
examination system.
These project components and the specific items that would be financed
under the proposed project are discussed in the following paragraphs.
(a) Expanding and Improving Primary Education
3.21      Classroom rehabilitation and construction.  Under the
Government's plan for developing primary education, the primary enrollment
ratio would be increased from the current 57? to 70? in 1996 (the end of
the project period). The corresponding enzollment increase (about 38,000
primary students) would be accommodated through more intensive use of
existing facilities and by constructing additional classrooms. About 8,000
students (202 of the increase) would be accommodated in existing schools by
introducing double-shift teaching in urban schools and multi-grade teaching
in rural schools (pE ' 3.03). Preliminary school mapping surveys conducted
during project preparation suggest that this target can be met. A detailed
school map, currently under preparation, would form the basis for selecting
schools where double-shift or multi-grade teaching is to be introduced.
Agreement on detailed plans for consolidating schools and introducing
multi-grade and double-shift teaching, including a school map, an approach
to double-shift teaching, annual targets for introducing double-shift and
multi-grade teaching, related teacher training programs, and information
campaigns for parents, would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Site
selection criteria, description of construction activities, and the
technology and supervision methods to be usea are provided in Annex 3-4.
3.22      The balance of about 30,000 students would require about 600
additional classrooms, to be constructed during the project period. The
cost of this investment would be shared by the Government and the
communities under a self-help construction program. The project would
finance all building materials, construction equipment and tools, the cost
of skilled workers, the provision of wells and pumps, and specialist
services to design and execute the self-help construction program. The
project would also finance the cost of locally manufactured school
furniture. The project would mobilize local coirmunities for the
construction of their primary schools by providing villagers with skills
training in basic construction techniques, sets of construction tools, and
technical advice (site supervision). To maintain the value of existing
investments, the project would also provide for the upgrading of 200
existing classrooms. All construction and rehabilitation work would be
done by local artisans and unskilled community labor under the supervision
of Mobile Construction Teams (para 3.23).
3.23      School construction supervision and implementation.  To
implement the construction program, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)



- 16 -
of the MOE would develop standardized, low-^ost building designs, or adapt
existing designs such as those presently used by NGOs. The PIU would
procure construction materials and supply these to participating
communities. Mobile Construction teams would be established at five
regional education offices to organize construction activities and to
supervise the classroom rehabilitation and construction program. The
Mobile Teams would also help in developing incentives and strategies for
sustaining the communities' interest in the program. The communities would
provide unskilled workers, locally available building materials and on-site
security during the construction period. On this basis, unit construction
costs (including labor, materials and overhead) are estimated at about
1,000 Dalasis per square meter (about US$120), about half the cost of
school buildings constructed by local contractors.
3.24      The project would finance:  (a) 1002 of all imported
construction materials; (b) 10O of skilled labor services; (c) 802 of the
cost of school furniture; (d) operating costs for the regional Mobile
Teams; and (e) technical services to be provided by the PIU for preparing
building designs and developing a maintenance handbook. Detailed cost
estimates for the primary school construction program are shown in Annex
3-5. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would
obtain the services of suitably qualified volunteers from organizations
such as the UN or the VSO to serve as construction supervisors on Mobile
Construction Teams. The setting up of two mojile construction teams
required to implement the first year of the construction program (Lower
River and Western Divisions), including the appointment of volunteers to
serve as construction supervisors, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. A checklist of specific requirements to, be met by
individual beneficiary communities prior to the initiation of
construction/rehabilitation work is found in Annex 3-4.
3.25      Curriculum development aid textbook production (Annex 3-6).  As
part of the Government's effort to improve education quality, the project
would assist with the design, development, production and distribution of
instructional materials (textbooks and teachers' guides). Specifically,
the project would provide assistance to: (a) the Curriculum Development
Center (CDC) to develop revised syllabi and manuscripts ror primary schools
and new syllabi for lower-secondary (middle) schools; and (b) the Book
Publishing and Materials Resources Unit (BPMRU) of the MOE to publish
and/or procure textbooks and teachers' guides and distribute thera to all
primary and middle schools. The project would also help the MOE establish
a cost recovery scheme ("textbook fund") from users in primary schools to
assure the supply of textbooks on a sustained basis (para 3.28).
3.26      The Curriculum Development Center (CDC), established about 15
years ago, is responsible for revising the existing primary and developing
new middle school syllabi, and for developing manuscripts suitable for
printing (locally by the BPMRU, or overseas).  To this end, the CDC has
established subject panels consisting of experienced teachers, inspectors
and teacher trainers, under the leadership of CDC subject specialists, to
review curricula, create new syllabi, write new manuscripts or adapt
existing textbooks. At the primary level, ten titles would be published,
six as adaptations of existing texts and four new terts to be written by
I



- 17 -
of existing texts, four to be newly-developed by CDC, and four to be
purchased off-the-shelf. Teachers' guides would be prepared along with the
manuscripts. The CDC would pilot test the new manuscripts or adapted
materials before submitting them to the BPMRU for production or external
procurement. In addition, the CDC would prepare special short courses to
introduce teachers to the new syllabi and textbooks, in conjunction with
the Gambia College School of Education. To support this program, the
proposed project would finance: (a) the costs of revising, testing and
finalizing curricula and syllabi for primary and middle schools; (b) the
costs of writing and/or adapting manuscripts based on the revised
curricula; and (iii) the construction of a purpose-built facility for the
CDC to consolidate its operations and improv'e the quality of the materials
produced. Details of this investment program are given in Annex 3-6.
3.27      Publication of textbooks.  The Book Production and Material
Resources Unit (BPMRU) of the MOE would be the textbook procurement agency.
The project would assist the BPMRU in procuring books "off the shelfn and
in printing books of limited quantity such as teachers' guides. The
project would complement the financial and technical assistance provided to
the BPMRU by the African Development Bank (AfDB) by improving the BPMRU's
printing capability. IDA's assistance would concentrate on the publishing
aspect (editing, design, illustration), as follows: (a) financing short-
term consultants and a staff training program in textbook design and
publishing; (b) procuring a limited amount of printing equipment to
complement that provided by the AfDB; (c) providing vehicles to help with
book distribution; (d) constructing a warehouse in the greater Banjul area
from which books would be distributed to the Regional Education Offices;
and (e) financing local costs of book distribution, on a declining basis,
over the project period. The details of the textbook publishing operation
are given in Annex 3-6.
3.28      Cost recovery t3r textbooks.  The introduction of new syllabi
and textbooks in primary schools presents the Government with an
op-e-tunity to institute a policy of cost recovery, where students would
p_ at least part of the cost of textbooks and contribute to their
replacement on a systematic and sustained basis. For primary schools, the
MOE would introduce a cost recovery scheme where students would pay a
'rental fev." for textbooks issued to them for the school year. Books would
be kept at the school for use during schools hours and stored in cupboards
provided by the project for the purpose. The rental fee per pupil for a
set of four textbooks in the core primary subjects (English, mathematics,
science, and social studies), would range from 25 Dalasis (about US$3.00)
in grade 1 to 50 Dalasis (about US$6.00) in grade 6, based on two students
per book. Book rental fees would be collected by the headmaster and turned
over to the principal education officer for deposit into a 'Textbook Fund"
to be managed separately from other project or government accounts. Since
the fees collected from students would not be sufficient to cover the
replacement costs, Government would provide the additional financing
necessary to replace books at three-year intervals (the average book life).
During negotiations, Government provided assurances that it would present
to the Association for approval, no later than March 31, 1991, a detailed
plan satisfactory to the Association for the establishment and operation of
the textbook revolving fund, to start no later than school year 1991/92,
including arrangements for the collection, safekeeping and use of the fees



- 18 -
collected, the Government's contribution to the textbook fund to cover book
replacement costs, and the means for MOE to obtain the hard currency
required in order to supply textbooks on a sustained basis.
3.29      In-service teacher training (Annex 3-7).  In 1989, primary
school teachers (grades 1-6) numbered 2,420, of whom about 54Z were
unqualified (para. 2.10). Recognizing that teacher quality (along with
availability of instructional materials) has a significant impact on
educational quality, the project would provide for the upgrading of about
1,200 unqualified teachers during the project period. The in-service
teacher upgrading program, currently under development by the Gambia
College School of Education with the assistance of an AfDB-financed teacher
training specialist, would be structured as follows: (a) 20 weeks of
residential courses to be conducted in two consecutive summer sessions and
during spring breaks; (b) 20 weekend sessions to be held during the
academic year betweer. the residential sunmer courses; and (c) a self-study
program for use by course participants at home. The residential and
weekend courses would be conducted at Gambia College and the Regional
Education Centers at Brikama, Kanifing, Kerewan and Basse. Annual intake
into the in-service program, beginning in 1991/92, would be about 20C
teachers, which would allow all unqualified teachers currently in the
teaching service to be upgraded within the six-year project implementation
period.
3.30      Upon successful completion of the in-service program, teachers
would receive a Basic Teaching Certificate and would be promoted from Grade
1 to Grade 3 on the Civil Service salary scale. The next level of teacher
qualification (Professional Teaching Certificate at Grade 6 of the Civil
Service salary scale), required for teachers of the new middle schools
(para 3.33), would be awarded on the basis of additional training at the
Gambia College and relevant teaching experience. Government's approval of
regulations to upgrade primary school teachers who successfully complete
the in-service teacher training program to Grade 3 of the Civil Service
salary scale would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.31      To implement the in-service teacher training program, the
project would finance: (a) fees for teacher trainers who would conduct the
program in addition to their regular work (overtime); (b) local workshops
for teacher trainers to familiarize them with the objectives, scope and
content of the in-service program; (c) travel and subsistence costs for
trainee-teachers; .d) books, stationery and instructional equipment
required for the training program; and (e) vehicles, equipment and other
logistic support needed to carry out the in-service program and provide
professional follow-up. Detailed breakdowns of these expenditures are
given in Annex 3-7.
3.32      Pre-service teacher training (Annex 3-7).  The School of
Education at Gambia College provides two-year full-time training programs
for primary and secondary school teachers. The school currently has about
200 audents and abolut 20 full-time staff.  The school is operating well
below capacity; its student intake and output could be increased
significantly, with only marginal increases in operating costs and no
increase in staff or physical facilities, except for minor remodelling to
accommodate larger class sizes. The project would assist the School of



- 19 -
Education to increase its annual intake of trainee primary teachers to
about 100 in 1991/92, and to 120 in 1993/94 and thereafter. A particular
effort would be made to increase the number of female trainee teachers
admtitted to the College to about 30Z by 1992/93 and to 402 by 1996/97, in
support of the Government's effort to increase the participation of females
in education (para 3.13). The project would provide assistance as follows:
(a) conversion of an existing assembly hall into a multipurpose lecture
hall with a capacity of 150-200 students; and (b) incremental operating
expenditures to cover the cost of instructional materials and office
equipment.
(b) Restructuring and Improving Secondary Education
3.33      New structure.  A major objective of the Government's Education
Policy is to introduce a unitary secondary education system consisting of
three years of lower-secondary or middle school and three years of upper-
secondary school. This new structure would replace the present dual system
of five to seven years of general secondary education (0-levels and A-
levels, respectively), and four years of technical seccadary education
(para 2.01). The new system would be progressively introduced starting in
school year 1992/93, by admitting students who pass the selective entrance
examination (CEE) to the first year of the new middle school. The old
system would gradually be phased out over five years. Those currently
enrolled in the five-year general secondary schools would complete in 1997
and those in the four-year technical schools would complete in 1996. Once
the transition is complete (1997/98), the budgets of the lower-secondary
schools and the upper-secondary schools would be adjusted and limited to
annual increases of 5Z and 1.7Z, respectively (para 3.18). During
negotiations, Government provided assurances that it would observe these
annual growth targets and make the necessary budgetary adjustments to
finance the restructured secondary education system.
3.34      The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
the new system by: (a) converting and/or refurbishing selected facilities
in existing technical secondary schools for use as general science
laboratories and classrooms; (b) revising/adapting curricula to support the
new structure; and (c) providing textbooks and instructional materials.
Implementation of the secondary school restructuring program would be
monitored annually on the basis of agreed progress indicators (Annex 3-3).
Detailed costs for the restructuring and improvement of secondary education
are given in Annex 3-8.
3.35      Refurbishing science laboratories.  The proposed project would
finance the cost of rehabilitating or converting existing facilities at 17
secondary technical schools into general science rooms for basic science
experiments and demonstrations by teachers. The project would provide the
necessary science equipment and demonstration materials. The PIU, in
collaboration with Regional Education Offices (REOs), would determine the
specific facilities in secondary technical schools suitable for conversion
into laboratory/science rooms. The conversion work would be undertaken by
local contractors engaged under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures,
and would be supervised by the PIU.



- 20 -
3.36      Curriculum and instructional materials.  The proposed project
would assist the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) to develop syllabi
which meet the requirements of the new middle schools, following procedures
similar to those established for the primary school curriculum revision
(para 3.26). The CDC would identify and procure copies of and adaptation
rights to middle school books that most closely match the new syllabi
developed by CDC. The manuscripts will be adapted and printed in limited
quantities by BPMRU, if practical (otherwise by a printing house overseas),
for pilot testing by CDC. Following testing and eventual adoption of the
selected texts, BPMRU would be responsible for publishing small editions
such as teachers' handbooks. For manuscripts that are to be published
overseas, BPMRU would be responsible for determining specifications,
preparing contracts and dealing with reprinting rights.
3.37      The proposed project would finance the various phases of
curriculum revision and manuscript development by the CDC, and the
production andlor purchase and distribution by the BPMRU of middle school
textbooks and instructional materials, as follows: for CDC. (a) the cost of
local consultants engaged in the writing, adapting, testing and evaluation
of manuscripts; (b) office equipment, furniture, stationery and reference
books; and (c) the cost of local workshops for teachers and evaluators in
the use of the new books. For BPMRU, (a) two vehicles for book
distribution; and (b) incremental operating costs related to the
distribution of textbooks. In addition to the curriculum specialists
(English and mathematics) provided to CDC under financing provided by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA), the project would finance a
curriculum expert in social studies for two years, and 22 staff-months of
overseas training for CDC and BPMRU staff. The details of this assistance
are given in Annex 3-6.
Cc) Strengthening Skills Training
3.38      Government's strategy for vocational education and training
(VET). To improve the effectiveness of the VET system and its ability to
respond to labor market needs, the Government has decided to establish a
National Council for Technical Education and Vocat'onal Training (NCTEVT)
as a statutory body responsible to the Ministry of Education, replacing the
existing National Vocational Training Board (NVTB). The new Council will
include representatives of concerned Ministries, employers and workers'
organizations and will be given the mandate to review, modify, and approve
national policies on VET. To ensure that the new policies are implemented
by the various schools and training centers. the Government needs to
establish the NCTEVT prior to implementation of the proposed changes in the
VET system, as defined in paras 3.39-3.40. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would, by March 31, 1991, replace
the existing NVTB with the NCTEVT on which representatives of concerned
ministries, employers and workers' organizations will be adequately
represented.
3.39      Proposed changes in vocational education and traisning (VET).
The National Vocational Training Center (NVTC), the only skills training
center operated by the MOE, is poorly managed and inadequately financed.
Its facilities are poor, it lacks materials and instructional equipment,
and has marginally-qualified instructors. To improve the quality of this



- 21 -
institution and strengthen its role in the VET system, the Government has
transferred the management and financial responsibility for the NVTC to the
Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI), and has begun to operate the
center, to be renamed the Banjul Skill Center (BSC), as an annex to the
GTTI. The GTTI intends to implement curriculum changes at the BSC to
emphasize practical training and occupational competency and to promote
entrepreneurial skills development. This institutional development program
would be supported by the project and would include: (a) improved
coordination with employers; (b) increased professional and practical
training for VET instructors; (c) improved provision of training equipment
and materials; and (d) physical improvements to training facilities. The
project would also support the introduction of training levies for
technical and vocational training, to be introduced starting school year
1991/92 (para 3.08).
3.40      To assist the Government in achieving its VET objectives, the
proposed project would provide support to GTTI in upgrading its subsidiary,
the BSC, by financing: (a) the construction and equipping of a new
library, an audio-visual and documentation center, and a small workshop for
mechanical trades; (b) the rehabilitation and equipping of classrooms; (c)
15 man-months of technical assistance to improve trade certification
standards, apprenticeship programs, and small business training; and (d) 30
man-months of overseas fellowships to strengthen faculty capabilities in
selected areas. Detailed costs for this project component are shown in
Annex 3-10.
*d) Strengthening Key Sectoral Institutions
3.41      The MOE is the largest employer of civil servants, expending
about 202 of the Government's recurrent budget. However, it does not use
its resources effectively and is constrained by a shortage of qualified
staff and lack of office equipment. To begin to address these problems,
particularly in the context of the new education policies and programs the
MOE is putting into place, the proposed project would help the MOE to
strengthen its central and regional education administrations, its
educational planning unit and its project implementation unit, and to
restructure the national examinations system.
3.42      The Ministry of Education.   The proposed project would assist
the MOE in establishing its new administrative structure and improving the
integration of the professional and technical functions and their support
units. Under the new structure, the Permanent Secretary, as chief
executive officer, is assisted by a deputy Permanent Secretary responsible
for managing the MOE's administrative and financial functions, and a Chief
Education Officer responsible for managing all professional and technical
departments of the MOE. To improve education policy formulation and
program implementation, a Senior Management Team would be established under
the leadership of the Permanent Secretary. The team would include senior
MOE officers, including the PIU Project Manager and the principal of the
Gambia College, and would review all major policy, strategy and management
decisions of the MOE. The Government has implemented the new
organizational structure of the MOE as shown in Annex 2-2, and has
appointed qualified and experienced officials to the senior positions.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the new



- 22 -
organizational structure recently put into place will be maintained and
that the senior HOE positions will be filled at all times by persons with
appropriate qualifications and experience. To strengthen MOE's planning
capacity, the project will provide financing for an education
planner/statistician for 30 months to assist the Director of Planning with
the school mapping exercise, the production of educational statistics, and
the preparation of annual MOE budget submissions. In addition, the project
will provide financing for studies related to educational planning,
management and administration, and for pre-investment work.
3.43      Project Implementation Unit.  The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), headed by a senior MOE official as Project Manager, is responsible
for the coordination of all project-supported activities, including
following up on the policy measures and the implementation of the
Government's school construction and maintenance program. Given the scope
of additional responsibilities arising from the proposed project, the PIU's
capacity to implement projects will be reinforced with respect to
construction, procurement, accounting and financial control, as well as
coordination of the various project-supported activities. To cope with
these expanded responsibilities, the Project Manager will be seconded by a
Deputy Project Manager financed by the project for about 3 years and
responsible for overseeing day-to-day management and administrative matters
of project implementation. In addition, the project will provide financing
for an externally recruited construction expert/civil engineer for up to 24
months, who would be assisted by three locally recruited building
supervisors or clerks of works to carry out construction supervision.
Financing will also be provided for short-term contract staff to tackle
specific design and implementation issues, as needed. To support regional-
level school construction, the project would provide vehicles and finance
salaries and incremental operating costs for the five mobile construction
teams that would supervise construction and coordinate community efforts
(para 3.23).
3.44      In addition, to strengthen the project management function, the
project will provide financing for a procurement specialist for about 12
months to help set up the PIU's procurement office. and an accountant for
12 months to help establish an up-to-date computerized accounting system.
Furthermore, the project will provide financing for training of project
staff, in the form of in-country seminars and overseas fellowships, in
project administration, procurement and finance. Gambian counterparts
would be appointed to all externally recruited technical assistance
personnel (leputy project manager, education planner, procurement
specialist, construction specialist, accountant). Specific timetables and
training programs would be developed to ensure a scheduled transfer of
responsibilities to Gambian nationals. During negotiations, Government
provided assurances that Gambian counterparts with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA would be assigned to the five TA positions
identified, no later than March 31, 1991. With this expanded staffing
complement, the Project Manager, as a member of the MOE's Senior Management
Team, would monitor the implementation of the various policy and reform
measures, while the Deputy Manager would handle the general administrative,
construction and procurement aspects. To ensure the smooth start-up of the
project, the appointment of the Deputy Project Manager, with qualifications



- 23 -
and experience accaptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.45      Examinations system (Annex 3-12).  The Common Entrance
Examination (CEE) at the end of primary school essentially functions as a
selection mechanism for admission to secondary school. High-scoring
students enter the secondary academic stream; lower-scoring students may                   _
enroll in four-year secondary technical schools or vocational training
programs. The remeinder, about two-thirds of primary school leavers,
complete their schc,ling at the end of the primary cycle. Because of its
function as a selection instrument, tne CEE exerts a strong influence on
teaching methods and course content and is not an appropriate tool for
measuring student accomplishment, particularly for those who do not
continue their schooling. All examinations, including the CEE, STSLCE
(Secondary Technical School Leaving Certificate Examination), and the
General Certificate of Education (GCE) "0" and 'Al level examinations, are
administered by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), an external,
regional examining authority representing The Gambia, Ghana, Liberia,
Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. The WAEC has over 35 years of experience and a
sound record of professionalism and efficiency in designing, administering
and scoring examinations. However, as an external examinations body, the
WAEC does not uniquely represent The Gambia's concerns and cannot provide
the country-specific feedback that national examinations should give to
teachers and education supervisors. Although The Gambia might eventually
decide to establish its own national examinations body, the Government has
taken the less-expensive option of using the existing infrastructure and
expertise of the local WAEC office to develop and administer new primary
and lower-secondary examinations which better reflect the changing needs of
the education system.
3.46      The proposed project would strengthen and reorient the
examinations system by: (a) assisting in the development of syllabus-based
local examinations for primary and middle school leavers, replacing the CEE
by a Primary School Leaving Certificate (PSLC) and introducing a new Middle
School Leaving Certificate (MSLC); (b) establishing a continuous assessment
scheme for grades 1-9; and (c) developing an effective feedback system to
monitor student performance, over time and across schools. To this effect,
the proposed project would provide the Gambian office of the WAEC with the
following resources: (a) 24 staff-months of technical assistance
(consisting of a testing and measurement specialist for 12 staff-months,
and short-term consultants in evaluation techniques for 12 staff-months);
(b) overseas fellowships in testing, measurement and evaluation for a total
of nine man-months; (c) in-country workshops for teachers and inspectors in
student assessment and evaluation, to be combined with the primary teacher
in-service program (paras. 3.29-3.32); and (d) office equipment and
logistic support. During negotiations, Government provided assurances
that, by March 31, 1991, it would furnish to IDA for review draft
regulations governing the new PSLC and MSLC examinations, and adopt these
regulations by June 30, 1991. The PSLC examinations would be implemented
starting in ,chool year 1991/92, and the MSLC examinations in 1994195. In
addition, Government provided assurances at negotiations that by March 31,
1991, agreement would have been reached wich WAEC that the latter would be
responsible for the design, administration and management of the PSLC and
MSLC examinations.



- 24 -
3.47      Impact of the proposed project.  In order to increase the
primary school enrollment ratio from 577 in 1989/90 to 70? in 1996/97
without measures 1 througlM 4 (paras 3.03-3.07), the primary education
budget would need to grow from about 26 million Dalasis (US$3.2 million) in
1989190 to 56 million Dalasis (US$7.0 million) in 1996/97. With the four
measures implemented as a package, the budget would only need to increase
to about 40 million Dalasis (US$5.0 million) by 1996/97. This implies a
*savings' of 45 million Dalasis (US$5.5 million) over the period 1990/91 to
1996/97.
3.48      The introduction of measures 3 and 4 (paras 3.06 and 3.07) would
allow the budget allocations for primary education to grow at 62 per year,
a rate needed for achieving the 702 enrollment ratio by 1996/97. This
growth rate can be accommodated within the education budget increases and
reallocations projected for the project period. The proposed budgetary
measures for education are reflected in the Government's undertaking under
the SAL II, and will be monitored as part of the annual expenditure reviews
under the SAL.
D. Project Costs and Finaacing Plan
3.49      Total project cocts are estimated at US$21.2 million (net of
taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$13.1 million
(62X). Base costs are estimated at US$15.7 million (74?) and contingencies
at US$5.5 million (26Z). The project would be financed by an IDA credit of
US$14.6 million equivalent, representing 692 of the total project cost.
The Government's contribution is estimated at US$1.1 million equivalent
(6?), and support in kind from local communities (labor and local materials
for school construction) is estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent (12Z).
The remaining US$3.0 million (14Z) would be financed by the European
Economic Community (EEC). Portion of the EEC cofinancing, totalling 1.3
million ECU or US$1.56 million equivalent (destined to finance the middle
school component and primary school construction in the Upper River
Division), has been confirmed. The balance of US$1.44 million equivalent
(about 1.2 million ECU) would be available after approval of the Lome IV
Convention. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at 65Z for civil works,
80? for school furnitur_-, 20? for in-country training programs, and 100?
for vehicles, equipment, technical assistance and overseas fellowships.
3.50      Cost estimates for textbooks and instructional materials were
calculated on the basis of prices obtained for books and teaching materials
procured for other IDA-financed projects in Africa.  The cost estimates of
internationally-recruited technical assistance and consultant services
include salaries and allowances for housing and travel. Costs for overseas
training were estimated at US$2,000 per month, including tuition,
transportation, lodging and insurance. The cost of local workshops and
seminars was calculated on the basis of 30 Dalasis per participant per day
for transportation, meals and incidental costs.
3.51      Physical contingencies were estimated at 10? for all project
items. Price escalation for local and foreign costs were estimated as
follows:



- 25 -
Projected Annual Price Escalation (in percent)
1991     1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997
Local      8.00      8.00       8.00      8.00       8.00       6.50       6.50
Foreign    4.93      4.93       4.93      4.93       4.93       3.68       3.68
On this basis, the proposed IDA Credit would include US$1.5 million
equivalent for physical contingencies and US$3.9 million equivalent fcc
price escalation during the six-year project implementation period.
Detailed project costs, by project component and by disbursement category,
are shown in Annexes 3-16 to 3-20.
E. Proiect Implementation
1.   Proiect Readiness and Management
3.52      Project Readiness.  The project was prepared by Gambian
educators and local experts, assisted by a short-term consultant financed
by the Norwegian Trust Fund. More detailed preparatory work and essential
project start-up activities were financed by a US$700,000 advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Implementation plans and schedules
have been prepared for the principal components of the project, including
timetables for the preparation of syllabi and textbooks (Annex 3-6,
Attachment 1) and for the development of examinations (Annex 3-12,
Attachment 1). A summary Implementation Schedule is shown at Annex 3-15.
A school location study to identify the precise location of the primary
schools to be constructed under the project is underway and will be
available before credit effectiveness (para 3.21). The selection of the
sites for about 20 schools to be constructed in the first phase of project
implementation (1991-1992), and the criteria for selecting the remaining
sites were reviewed during negotiations.
3.53      Project Management.   The project will be implemented under the
overall guidance of the Senior Management Team to be established in the MOE
under its revised organizational structure (para 3.42). Responsibility for
implementing each of the project components will rest with the relevant MOE
Directorates, while overall management, administration and coordination of
project activities will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation
Unit (para 3.43). The PIU will also be responsible for monitoring the
various pollcy measures supported by the project and for implementing the
school construction and rehabilitation program. Joint IDA-Government
reviews of project implementation would be carried out on an annual basis.
Such reviews are designed to examine progress of project implementation
to-date, review the impact of the policy measures being undertaken, discuss
the results of the previous year's work program and agree on the following
year's work program. In addition, a formal mid-term evaluation would be
conducted jointly by IDA and the Government. The EEC, cofinancing the
project, would participate in the annual reviews. During negotiations,
Government provided assurances that joint annual reviews would be held no
later than April 30 of each year, starting in 1991, on the basis of
appropriate documentation to be prepared by the PIU and that the joint mid-
term project evaluation would take place no later than April 30, 1994
(para. 3.19).



- 26 -
2. Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account
3.54        Procurement.  The following procurement arrangements would
apply,                                                  Amounts and Methode of Procurement
(US$ a Il l ion includIngo Contingencies)
Tots I
No.           Cotegory of expenditure                 iCe       LC0     Other        N/A       Cost
.  Civil Works Conterct.                             -         910       -         *.0/        1.97
(Excluding Part A)                              -         (9.26)     -         t--)       (0.29)
2   Building Materials, Labor Services and fells    4.69      1.6       2.50 /b   1.07 /c    9.77
(Part A only)                                  (4.69)    (1.69)       --)      C--)       (6.20)
8.  Textbook* end Instfuctional Materiel.     e       0.7      -         -         O.5  /d    1.25
(0.67)     -         -         (--)      (.67)
4. Mom Pedagogical Materials
. Furniture                                      -         1.94      -         9.61 /6    2.55
-        (1.44)                  )       1.44)
b. Equ Ipmet                                    8.49                            0  /f    6.64
(9.40)     -         -         (-)       (0.49)
C. Vehicles A Spere Porte                         .87      -                                .87
(9.87)~         -         -              (9.t7)
6. Secilist I.ervices
a. Inteorational end Loal Speil                  -         -         2.01      -           2.61
*         -        (2.61)     '          (2.61)
b. Voluntsers                                    -         -          .1 S                  .19
*         -        (S.10)     -          (9 19)
S. Training
a. Polleehipe                                    -         -          .41      -            .41
_         -        (6.41)     -          (9.41)
b. Toechor Upgrading                             _         _         0.1?      -          0.17
-         -        (9.1)      -          (9.17)
7. Pro-investment stWdis                             -         -                               0.83 -  *8
-         -        (9.89)     -          (9.56)
t. Operating Coste
a. Incrmeinta  Operating Cot                     -         -         4.2       -          9 52
-         -        (9.12)     -          (0.S2:
b. Inrermenl Staff                               -         -         -         9.4        9.4
c. STemias                                       -         -         -         9.9         .3
-         '         -        (9.69)      (9.33)
Total Cost                                       I.s1s     8.n9      6.73      4.42       21.26
rotal FinLaned by the IDA credit                (6.14)    (88)    (4.26)    (O.")    (14.62)
Note: Figures In parethese  are th   espetive sweat finesse  by thb tDA  redit.
The folloelng capital letters she  the projeet sompoeate:
Part A: 1habi I Itatln/CsaeUetloe  it Pimary   e hee|
Part 6: Raislee of Currioule and Prowvsion of Testboe
FPrt C: Teeshr Training sad Upgradeg                                                                       -
Part 0: EaminAtieo  and Centinus Assessment
Part I:  trutarteo and Improvement of Seodary Educatlon
Part F: Strengthening Ski I* TesnAing
Part G: Inetltutlonnel oevlepmet
Footnotes with wool I letters Indiatoe amunte financed by oehr donore and procured under
their procedures:
(a) USD.60 by EEC                            (b) Wt.S  by  we altiee    (a) US01.97 by EC
(d) US"D.   by RC                           (e) USW.9  by UEC             (f) US80.§6 by EEC
FiPre   may not add up to total due to rounding.
6:11WOCMA.EX(BA)



- 27 -
3.55      Procurement Procedures.  Goods (including construction materials
for school construction/rehabilitation) with an estimated value totaling
US$6.1 million equivalent, representing about 65Z of the total value of
contracts for goods and works financed by IDA, would be procured under
contracts awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD and IDA
Credits", (May 1985). Procurement would be grouped to the extent possible
in bid packages of at least US$150,000 equivalent to improve bid
competition.  Where ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers would
be given a preference margin of 15Z for goods manufactured locally or the
applicable custom duties, whichever is lower. Bid packages estimated at
more than US$150,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA review prior to
decision on the final awards. It is estimated that this review would cover
about 802 of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and works.
Contracts for civil works (for renovation of middle schools and
construction of wells), labor services and school furniture, estimated to
cost less than US$150,000 each and financed by IDA, which are not likely to
attract international bidders, would be awarded through competitive bidding
advertised locally (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA,
provided that (a) the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed
US$3.9 million equivalent; (b) pre-qualification is required for the civil
works contracts; (c) the conditions under which pre-qualification takes
place, as well as the methods and criteria used, are acceptable to IDA; (d)
the tenders are advertised locally and bidders are allowed a minimum of 45
days to submit bids; (e) all bids are opened in public; (f) evaluation
criteria are specified with sufficient clarity -- price, capability to
perform, adequacy of equipment and personnel, and financial capacity: (g)
eligible foreign firms not incorporated in The Gambia are allowed to
participate in the bidding; and (h) draft standard bidding documents have
been reviewed and approved by IDA prior to approval and signing of the
first contract. Contracts for goods (under operating costs) costing less
than $20,000 equivalent each may be procured through prudent international
or local shopping on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least
three reliable suppliers to ensure competitive prices, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$520,000 equivalent. Procurement of
contracts for components financed by EEC (totalling US$3.0 million
equivalent) would follow procurement guidelines acceptable to the EEC.
Consultant services and training abroad financed under the IDA Credit with
an estimated value totalling US$3.2 million would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agencyu, (August 1981).
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that procurement of
goods and services financed by the project would follow the procedures
outlined above.
3.56      Disbursement.  The IDA credit would be disbursed over a period
of seven years on the basis of the categories shown below, in accordance
with the country disbursement profile. The project is expected to be
completed over a sir-year period ending December 31, 1996. Given the
availability of the Special Account, the minimum application for direct
payments would normally be for the equivalent of US$20,000. The estimated
quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3-22.



- 28 -
Allocation and Disbursent of the IDA Crodit
(US11 million)
Proposed IDA     X of Expenditure
Category of Expenditure                Allocation       Financed by IDA
-----------------------.--------------  ------------    ----------------
1. Civil works contracts                         0.3              90%
2. Project Contributions for school rehab/constr.  5.6           1001
3. Textbooks and Instruction Materials           0.8             1001
4. Equipment                                     0.7              100%
S. Furniture                                     1.3              801t
8. Specialist services                           2.4              100%
7. Training                                      0.6             100%
8. Pre-Investnont Studies                        0.3              100%
9. Incremntal Operating costs                    1.3              1001
10. PPF                                          0.2
11. Unallocated                                  1.4
TOTAL                          14.6
3.57      All withdrawal applications would be accompanied by full
documentation, except for contracts valued at less than US$20,000
equivalent, operational costs and the cost of in-country workshops and
seminars, for which disbursements would be made against certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and for which documentation would be
retained at the Project Unit for review by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors.
3.58      Special account.  To expedite project implementation a special
account denominated in US dollars would be opened in the Central Bank of
The Gambia and operated and maintained on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be
US$200,000,  representing anticipated eligible expenditures for four months
(excluding anticipated direct payments to large overseas suppliers such as
publishers). The special account would be replenished by the Bank upon
receipt of properly documented withdrawal applications, which should be
aggregated into packages of at least US$25,000 equivalent.
3.59      Accounting, auditing and reporting.  The PIU wot'ld maintain
separate financial records for all accounts, including SOEs and the Special
Account. The financial records should conform to internationally accepted
accounting standards. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA
to audit all project accounts on an annual basis, and to submit audit
reports of reasonable scope and detail within three months of the end of
the Government's fiscal year.  In addition, the Government provided
assurances during negotiations that the Special Account and the SOEs would
be audited semi-annually, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and
that semi-annual audit reports of the Special Account and SOEs would be
submitted within three months after the audits had been conducted. Audit
fees would be financed by the IDA credit. Finally, the Government provided
assurances during negotiations that it would prepare and submit semi-
annually to IDA a detailed report on all aspects of project implementation,
and a project completion report within six months of the Project's closing
date.



- 29 -
IV. PP.OJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      Benefits.  Approximately 38,000 children who would otherwise not
gain access to primary schools will be able to do so as a result of project
investments and the introduction under the project of efficiency measures
and increased budgetary allocations for the education sector. This more
effective use of resources would yield annual savirngs estimated at 10? of
the education budget. The primary enrollment ratio is expected to increase
under the project from its present level of 57Z to 702 by 1996197, and to
802 by 2003. Expanded coverage of the system would benefit more children
in rural areas and particularly girls. Furthermore, teacher training
programs and provision of textbooks and teachers' guides to be supported by
the project will help lay the groundwork for the development of a better
quality and more relevant education system at both primary and secondary
levels. With regard to the restructuring of secondary education, access to
good-quality lower-secondary schools would increase, while in vocational
education structural changes and revisions in program cortent would make
the system more responsive to manpower needs and enhance the skill levels
of workers and technicians.
4.02      Risks.  The main risks are:  (a) Government's ability to
implement a project involving major educational policy reforms and a large
school construction program, considering present staff constraints and weak
managerial, planning, and project implementation capacities; (b) budgetary
constraints which could restrict adequate coverage of recurrent costs to be
incurred in meeting targets set by the reform program; and (c) communities'
commitment and ability to participate in classroom construction. The first
risk is mitigated by the fact that a general consensus has been reached in
The Gambia with respect to education reforms supported under the project,
culminating in Parliament's debate and approval of these reforms. The risk
is further reduced by measures under the project aiming to strengthen the
capacities of the Ministry of Education (MOE), including the provision of
training and technical assistance. The possible impact of the second risk
is reduced by Government's agreement on specific measures to increase the
allocation for education, particularly primary education, in the Government
budget. This commitment will be monitored in the context of annual
expenditure reviews. Finally, as concerns community participation in
school construction, regional mobile construction teams, reinforced by
additional technical and construction supervision staff and community
development specialists, will promote communities' motivation while
providing assistance to and supervision of construction activities.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During Negotiations, the Government:
(a) issued a policy letter summarizing the principal objectives of
its Education Policy Reform, including measures to: (i)



- 30 -
improve the efficiency and effectiveness in the use of sector
resources; (ii) promote development of private initiatives in
education; (iii) increase opportunities for the participation of
females in education and (iv) improve the quality and cost-
effectiveness of the secondary education system. (paras 3.03-
3.18 and Annex 3-2).
(b) issued an action plan for improving female enrollment and
achievement (para 3.12).
5.02      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it will by March 31, 1991, complete a study aaLd make specific
proposals acceptable to IDA for increasing tuition and user fees
for secondary schools and training levies for technical and
vocational training programs, and that it will implement these
proposals starting school year 1991/92 (para 3.08);
(b) it will by March 31, 1991, furnish to IDA a plan specifying
criteria for the provision of assistance to madarassas,
including access to teacher training, provision of textbooks and
teachers' guides and assistance for construction of madarassas,
and will implement this plan starting school year 1991/92 (para
3.09);
(c) starting school year 1991/92, it will implement the agreed
action plan for improving female enrollment and achievement,
including: (i) measures to increase the proportion of women in
the teaching force; (ii) provision of gender-neutral teaching
materials; (iii) promoting enrollment of girls in science,
technology and mathematics education; and (iv) incorporating
family life education into the curricula (paras 3.10-3.16);
(d) starting school.year 1992/93, it will implement the proposed
restructuring program for secondary general and technical
education (para 3,:8);
(e) it will conduct joint annual reviews of progress in project
implementation, starting April 30, 1991, and a joint mid-term
review by April 30, 1994, in order to monitor progress in
achieving project objectives including the reform measures
contained in the education policy letter (para 3.19);
(f) it will obtain the service of suitably qualified volunteers from
organizations such as the UN or the VSO to serve as construction
supervisors on Mobile Construction Teams (para 3.24);
(g) it will by March 31, 1991, submit a detailed plan, acceptable to
the Association, for the establishment and operation of a
textbook revolving fund into which textbook fees will be
deposited, including the Government's contribution to the fund,
and the means of converting these funds into hard currency
required to supply textbooks on a sustained basis (para 3.28);



- 31 -
(h) it will by March 31. 1991, replace the existing NVTB with the
NCTEVT which will include representatives of concerned
ministries, employers, and workers' organizations (para 3.38);
(i) the new organizational structure of MOE will be maintained, and
experienced and qualified staff will be appointed to all senior
positions at all times (para 3.42);
(j) by March 31, 1991, Gambian nationals, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, will be appointed as
counterparts to the technical assistance staff provided under
the project (para 3.44);
(k) it will by March 31, 1991, furnish IDA for its review drtft
rules governing the new PSLC and MSLC examinations, and that
based on agreements reached following the review, it will
approve these regulations by June 30, 1991, and start
implementing the PSLC examinations in school year 1991/92 and
the MSLC examinations in 1994/95 (para 3.46);
(1) it will by MLrch 31, 1991, reach agreement with the WAEC of
responsibilities for the design, administration and management
of the PSLC and the MSLC examinations (para 3.46);
(m)  it will apply procedures conforming to the Bank's guidelines for             U
the procurement of goods and services for all procurement under              -
the project (para 3.55);
(n) it will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the
Association to audit all project accounts annually and the
Special Account and SOEs semi-annually, and to submit the
respective annual and semi-annual audit reports of reasonable
scope and detail within three months after such audits have been
completed (para 3.58); and
(o) it will prepare and submit semi-annually to the Association a
detailed report on the implementation of all aspects of the
project, and prepare and submit a project completion report
within six months of the project's closing date (para 3.58).
5.03      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness  would be that the
Governments
(a) will submit to the Association detailed plans for introducing
multi-grade and double-shift teaching, including: (i) a school
map indic&ting areas in which the program would be introduced;
(ii) an approach to double-shift and multi-grade teaching; (iii,
annual targets for introducing multi-grade and double-shift
teaching; (iv) teacher training programs for double-shift and
multi-grade teaching; (v) a campaign to inform parents of the
merits of multi-grade and double shift teaching (paras 3.04 and
3.21);



- 32 -
(b) has set-up two mobile construction teams required to implement
the first year of the school construction program, including the
hiring of volunteers to serve as construction supervisors on the
mobile construction teams; (para 3.24);
(c) has approved rules to upgrade primary school teachers who
successfullv complete the in-service teacher training program to
Grade 3 of the Civil Service Salary Scale (paras 3.05 and 3.30)3
and
(d) has appointed a Deputy Project Manager whose experience and
qualifications are acceptable to the Association (para 3.44).
5.04      Subject to the conditions set forth in paras. 5.01 to 5.3 above,
the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$14.6 million
equivalent on standard terms.



.~~~~3 -
Annex 1-1
Page. I of 2
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
GAMBIA, THE
R4f1rlnco Groups (MRE)
Mo0st
Recent                   Lower mid
1968       1975    Esttmate   Low- icome       Income
LABOR fORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)          216         263        312
Female (%)                       43          43         41         24         29
Agriculture ()                   69 ss                  84         66         so
Incustry (%)                      5          *           7         14         16
Participation rat (%):
Total                            12          so         46         47         37
Male                             60          59         57         is          Si
Female                           43          42         39         35         23
Age deperArtcy (%)               61.4        90.7       62.4       71.6        82.7
HOlUSING
Average sieg Of houg hold:
Total                            ..           8
uroan                            ..           6
Rural                            ..           9
Percentage of dwellins with
eloectricity:
Total
urban                            ..          ..
Rural                            ..          ..
EDucATIon
Enrollment rate":
Primary: Total                   21          32         75         99         104
Male                    29          44         92        110         109
Feme                    12 la      21          so         17         99
Secondary: Total                  6          tO         20         34          42
Male                   6          Is         29         41          47
Female                 4          5          12         21         36
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          39          26         22         39          31
Secondary                        22          t9         17          ..         22
upils reaching  rs   6 *t)          ..         96         92          ..         72
INDU.  _NITKaN. mu mu.i
Energy consumption pe o _.
(kg of o01  qu1ivalent)            ..          40        7T         327         351
PerCentage Of private lnceo
reWeived by:
Migheet 10% of households
Highest 20%
LoweSt 20%
Lowet 40%
Eat. abDOlutO poverty Inc ,
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural                             ..         95
lst. pop. below abolute
poverty i come lotl ()
urban                            ..          ..
Rural                            ..          40
Passengr car/thou pop.            3.0         2.6        2.2
'NewePae circulation
(per thousand population)           ..         ..        2.6       22.0        43.6
IuCu E Augit 1966
I".esNm S  y b9v   _S a~ tUb US tamn.. 51a tu   11m. bm _ed Ut"_



- 34 -                                    Annex 1-1
1988  SOCIAL  INDICATOR  DATA  SHEET                      age 2 of 2
GAMBIA, THE
Qaforenco GCouPs (MRE)
Iscoent                    Lowor mid
1965       1975    Estimate   Low-incomo         Income
AREA
Total lana area (thou sq ku)       11.3                   tt.3  11.3
Agricultural (X of total)          31.9        35.8       22.1
GW  PER CAPITA (current US$)          100         220         220        280         730
POPULATtON AND VITAL STATISTICS
rotal pcoultion (tmou)             403         533        797
Urban pop. ( of total)                           19          31         28          38
Population growtn rate(%):
rotal                                         2.8        3.5         1.9         2.5
Urban                                          ..        7.2         1.7         4.2
Life expect, at birth (yrs)          34          36          43         el          59
Population orojections:
Pop. in 2000 (tnou)                                     1.142
Stationary pOm. (ttou)                                 3.143
Population density per *q kus
of agricultural land                 12         132         300         349        404
Pop. age structure ():
0-14 yrs                           44          45          43         37          42
15-64 yrs                          13          12         so          59          s5
6 and abov                          3           3           2           4          3
crude oirth rate (per thou)          so          49          49          30          35
Crude deth rate (per thou)           30          26          22          10          10
Total fertility rate                6.1         6.!         6.5         3.9        4.7
intant mort. rate (per thou)        199         172         160         72          76
Child dOeth rate (per thou)          53          s0          4*           9          t1
Family plartning:
Aeeoptors. annual (thou)                        2 2
uers (M. of married womn)          ..                      .
FOOD. HEALTH A1D WTITZOM
Index of food produCt ion ope
capita (1979-li * i@o)              1      ss   154         136         116         106
Per capita sply of:
Calories (opr day)              2.194       2.103      2.252       2.327       2.507
Proteins (grms per day)            53          54          52         15          56
Pop, per py iciaen (thou)                      24.1        11.6        5.6          7.5
Pop. per nurse (thou)               1.7         2.2          ..        4.0
Pop. per hospital Ooe  (thou)                              0.6          1.1         1.1
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total          ..          12         45
Urean         ..          97        100
Rural                      3         33
Population CGowth              Infant Mortality        Prlmary School Enrollment
s-~~~~~~~~s
2   e-    r¶-0    5,.--                    t@0@@                  ° 
n fm l g otSIr *01                                e    >I)Viqp
88



- 35 -
Annex 1-2
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data (1988)
General (1988)
GNP per Capita                       US$220
Land Area
Population                           0.8 million
of which urban                     352
Population Density                   300 per Sq Km
Population growth rate (1988)
Total                     3.5Z
Urban                     7.22
Crude nirth Rate                     49  per thousand
Crude Death Rate                     22  per thousand
Infant Hortality Rate                160 per thousand
Life Expectancy at Birth             43 years
School Enrollment (1988)
Enrollment Ratio          Z Female
Primary School                 572                        46Z
Secondary                         _
Higher                            -
Distribution of Recurrent Education Budget (1988)
Primary                         412
Secondary                      27Z
Post-Secondary                  101
Vocational/Technical             62
Administration                  162
Total        1002
Recurrent Expenditure per Student (1989-90) 11
Primary                        US$50    equivalent
Secondary                      US$115   equivalent
Post-Secondary                 US$2,060 equivalent
1/   Based on 1989-90 budget estimates and including 1989 civil service
salary increases.



THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
Structure of the Education System
(Before Pollcy Reform)
PRIMARY                          SECONDAAY                   POST SECONDARY
Secondary                                   Universitles
High Schoods                 VI forms         Abroad
Teachear
0~~~~~~~0
Training
MIdwAfery 
* Selection Examntion                                   tA       Jur
* OuaUfybng Exambnation
Vocational
Training
'.    {
GRADE 1    2    3    4    5    6            7    8    9    ,10 ,..  11       1.   13      14   15   16
AGE 9     9    10   11   12   13         14   15   16   17        18      19   20       21   22   23
e.da46o 4



- 37 -
THE  GAMBIA                           Annex '-: (b)
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
Structure of the Educatlon System
(After Policy Reform)
AGE         YEAR
GROUP       (CGRADE)
.. ... . . .. . .. .. ....... .............. , .. .......... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
8-9            2
^ ...9-1t0               3
3  - 10        3      PRIMARY
10 - 11         4
11- 12          5
12- 13          6
~~~~~~~~~....          .....                                       .......+ 
a0           13- 14          7 
14 - 15         8      MIDDLE                                  SKILL
16- 17         10
17 - 18        11      HIGH
18- 19         12
,.......                   ,,,,,,,,,. ,~ ,,,,,,.... ............... ..........
194- 20        13      at FORM
20 - 21        14       A-LEVEL
...............................            .........    ......... .... ..............    . ..........
______________________                                  O~~~~~~~~TTI
KEY:                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(IncI.BSC)
KEY'1 
BSC a BaI*J SkI Contfr
GTTI - Gambla Techikal Training
Insttute
GAMBIA
COLLEGE
HIGHER EDUCATION
(OUTSIDE GAMBIA)
.asb44



THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Appraisal Report
Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
HON. IINISTER
SECRUAENTMARY      .....  .. _................ .........................................   
NOIES*  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                            I ~~~~~~~~~~GAMBIA                                   NVTC               *      GAMBIA
NOTES                                                                                                             COLLEGE                     O*                      NARTONAL
CEOICP.IU -, CI Edn O                                              '       BOARD              '        OARD                 UBRAIRY BOARD
D)CR&DU  -Diore"o Cumkuum PRerch rind Devrnmk   UAtt                                                        ----___----___---         ____-     ____         ___     ___  
D#MPhMRU  D-ret. Book Prao an  MaUal                                               PERMANENT 
MWSFP      Mauger, Srcal Feeting Progrrnwle                                       SERMANT
SAS        Serdnlr Assistnt Sry                                                    SECRETARY
FPU       - Prqocts Imriptdamin Unt I
PEO       -Prtrrdpat Eduaiten Otw                                                                                                                                                       OD
SEO       - Srmear Educailon Ottkw
CCS       *C twm   Cttic S rvo
G&C       -u.Mmc eand Counsllrig                                                     C
NFES      - Non-Formal Eduedon Servieos                          'CHEFtANAURY
NVTP      - Naonat Vocrona Traint Plrlag                                       EDUCATION OFFICER            *        IMLEMENTATION               0E*MDEPUT
* SMtM       Sotor management Tam Menber                                               (C.E.0)                               UNIT                              SECRETARY
l  l                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(PRGRMMES)l
*   DIRE TOR             *          OIRECTOR             *         OF PlANNtNGE                       CONS5TRUCTION                     _UNE SCO. NFES. 
*    OF SCHOOLS                           OF SEPVICES                      O  LNIGSHLRHP
GAC    .O.FFICEIRS                                                                                            _ PROCUREMENT                        _    SEARD-PR R NS I
z
SCHOOL ~ ~ ~~~~~INNE                                          COUTN
INSPECT?OMFATE
sadskW47226



Annex 2-3a
*                                                                  IHE CSIA
EOucATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL  POR7
EWN0LIE1 IN PRIMAY SCHOOL OV CLASS, SEX AND REGION, 12/j99
PRIM     I        PRIMRY 2           PRIMARY 3          PIMAV 4            PRIMARV 6          PCIMARV 6         10AL (P14)
66114"             mm                BOTH               BOTH               BOTH               B0TH               B01H
SEXES       f     am           F     SEXES        F     SEXES        F     SEXES        F     SEXES        f     SEXES        F
MIRS.                    m9      4"4    1,0o        504    1,080       630      923       469    1,013       59    1,301        714   6.820    8.210
KOMRO ST. MRY         2,46    1,289    2,t14    1.065    3,525    1,179    2,361    1, 10    2,807    1,092    2,490    1,1U9   14,599    0,600
ESTrM  DI,vtSlM       8.0197    1,050    3,419    1,476    S.194    1.3o,   S. Sa       1.00    5,045    13,30    4,125    1,850   21,19l    *,409
LA=S RIVER OIl.         010      356       M1                 110      221       700      210      1s&       251      606       153    4,161    1,410
106114 BANl DIV.      1,901      66      1,"a       16      1,00        "a    1,610       52    1,680        402    1,006       490   10,220    8,339
1.I.D.  (KITAaS)        551      20        4"       164       426      162       416     10       413       127      606       168    2,110  9U
il110. (¢ECGE IRGET     e01      810       1        290       720      207      66        289      074       285      10       222    4,U53    1,611
UPPR RIVER DIV.       1.046       546       M       221      61        202      650       15       662       192      624       105    4,646    1,862
(TOTAL)  12,606  5.211   11,211    4,624   10.006   4,406   10,122    4.250   11,196    4.306   12,C24    4,462   69o,e6     21.264
Sauc- * EdwcatioaaS Ps.ialog usit. misistry of Educ.tioa



Annex 2-3b
THE CMIA
SUCAIKUN SECIT  POJECI
STAFF APPISAL  EPORT
Tim  S  i   f t.9 rimeep s5h
Efo.llmSBs  by Close sNW so
(alom7py-am/81)
n~~~ll mus wiL urn   w  um   sno.suuum              Cl S£ aimW   11/11 -  mIeU
NO. OF        IIU  I a            1m1 v a            ruima   a            FumE, 4 *JMAEv S *
viml         SCHOOS                        - - - ------------   ------------------------------------
BOTH                 IOU                 GO"                   BonTH                win                 BOTH
SEX         F         Sl         F         MS1        F        S11         f        St=S        F       S1S          f
10101?           so      4,6610    1,664      4,1"      1,18       4,80      1,47       8.602     1,800      8,64      1,121      4,11"      1,240
1616710         122      7,46       ,.611     6,        1,065     4,011      1,500     4,621     1.496      4.26      1.114      6,265     1.601
10w1i           46      1,064     4,116      6,466     1,029      1,404     2,410      5,002     1,621      680       1,601       ,6       2,08                O
1062/8          1£04    11,626     4,60         ,47      a,        s,922      *,ae      6,106     2,764      7,226     2,298      1,960     2,292
19a4s           160    I.,"?       1,748    11,570      4,646    10,076      422"    10,096    a,i96         9,180     &,a9a   10,976       3,124
Inage/          190    11,261      5,714    11,876      4,784    11,121      4,640    10,412      4,108    10,616      8,914    11,042      4,266
m9"i*g          169    12,06       6,211    11,211      4,024    10,900      4,406    10,122      4,"9    11,196       4,806    12,624      4,462
SOuRCE:   Educatiml Pl.aael  Uilt, Ed.ceti.e Staistics Report, MisisUry of Edweotes
.*. w..



I10E GAMBIA                                          Annex 2-4
ED4JAT 3014 SECTOR PRO.41iT
STAFF APPlAISSA RE40RT
SCHOOL POPSLAIIOM (0-38 WEAS) INHOOLJNT ANQ CROSS ENOLLMENT RATIO SY SEX A REGION, 193 a 1"60
a 90                                                                   a 9oe
9005S EUROLLMET                                                        GROSS WEIOLLI
OOYT        POPULATION (0-12 US)              IEI                 RATIO                ULATION (6-18 US)          EJSOLLMET               RATIO
Both                G0OT                      60To                      NY"                 Sol"
-IU            a       F     ToWAL             f F                          SSE  N  F    sEX  a  F   SEXES    N        F        s      U      F    SIXES
L             2,s   a,.0 e     ,001     *,11IS   8,240   *,ooa  11.6  106.1  117.1   alem  arni      1,041   8,110   a,210  *,o20   9v.s    a.2  89.i
* ST. MAIL    0,260  1,016 18,810   4,16   4,1U  0,060   76.0    0.   61.1    1,106   6,161   10.411   1,690  9,   14,650    90.1   16.4  01.9
RN DIVISIN  11,l1  10.2U  21,4W   11,141   6,661 11,024  108.0  64.2  OP.9   18,090  12,466  26,116   1a,m2  0,4o   21,191                    614 .6  63.8 
;IVia .1w.  4,1J2  a1a   71,a1    8,061   1,204   4531  74.2   U.2  16.1   S.120   4,310    9,496    5,201   1,410   4,171  64.0  aa.e  60.0
GM  DIV.   9,101   6,061  11,104    1,02   3,621  10,668   t0.0  48.1  68.1  11,061   0,096  20,111    6OSS0 ,          ,80  10, 2m   62.2  U4.4  49.2
. (81AU)   4,066   8,311   7,i4   I'M            569  12,63   46.2  22.6  514.    4,042   4,626    0,"1    1,041        0      2,171   51.2  20.8   ".0
(CEOIICETO   4.910   4,650   9,460    8,160   1,628  1,192   66.0  89.9  64.0    6,0809  6,41   11,420    2.096   1,617   4,66         0. I  2.6   0.0 9
* RVER 0IV.   6,918  *,080  11,008   2,904   1,260  4,104   82.6  16.6  24.6  10,170  9,080   20,420    8,209   1,U62   4,646   30 6   14.0  22.1
^IA         S61,192  48,426 90,616   81,914  22,116  00,630   74.0  40.90 60.6   2,U2  60,901  121,518  42,402  21,204  09,6o6   071.   40.2  61.5
Educatioe Plaaim Unit, Mi.itry of E1dect1.
*.,, *.
11__E   I         II   U                                         I *                _     |_



Annex 2-5
CAMBIA
EDUCATION SECITR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORIT
PCE1  #M  OF SCHOOL-AGE PULATION AND PRIUMRY SCHOOL EMSOLLNENI -
SHARE OF SCHOOL-ACE
POPULATION         SHARE OF ENROLLMENT    R. 1.
PECENT CUJLTED        PERCENT CUMWLATED
DIVIUII            SOAR!   PEKENT         SHARE   PERCET
U   RIaim           10.30      10.30        0.70      0.70      0.99
WOmTM                7.60      24.00        8.90     10.60      0.60
EI_ROETO             0.80      8.90         0.60     11.70      0.00
Uu1Nb               £ 17.20    61.10       14.00     $1.70      0.i
Ll aR                 7..00    ".00         0.00     U.60       0.01
ESTM DIV.           21.00      00.50       81.10     09.00      1.40
BAJUL                6.00      M.           9.00     10.90      1.50
OM0 ST. "ARV        18.70    100.00        21.00     99.00      1.68
SourcO: Ml.stry etf Edcaeti,. &ad MiusIoo f..t.aUM
..: 11.1. X Rbpr..aeti.n luSdA
iq  ~
.  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



Annex 2-6
THE AIA
EOJCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF A f*iSAL REPORT
REPRfSETWAII  wDoE IN PRIMARY SCHOOL EIOLLUEHT
-- -- -- -- -- -- - -- 0- ---- -- - - - - - - - - - -            - - - - - - - - - - - - -
MALE     FEMALE
6oTn                                        WITHIN    WITHIN
OIVISIOW                     SEKES                     MALE      FEMALE   DIVISION   DIVISION
BANAL                          1.60                    1.70        1.46        1.06       0.92
KOM10 ST. May                  I.44                    1.72        1.9         1.12       0.69
STEIN IIVER DIVISION           a.44                    1.60        1.19        1.11       0.01
Lam  RlVE  DIVISION          0.on5                    1.11      0.607         1.2S       0.0
NORTH aS  DIVISION            0.060                    1.00       0.00         1.20       0."0
KuaWBIR (K.I.D.)              O.606                         0..    .62         1.20       0.09
CEOSGETOUB (11.1.6.)          0.696                  0.676        0.60        1.20        0.1
UPER RivER bDIVISIO            0."9                  0.681       0.244        1.34        0.41
(TOTAL)                                    1.16       0.807
Noet. Cou1.d tees bmIl date obtelmed from Mlsitry of EducstozF
;V 



Annex 2-7
THE GACIA
-                                                                EDUCATION SECT'W PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TEAC)ERS IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS DISTRUIBUTED BY TYPE. QUALIFICATION AND SEX.
LOVYT.          ADOIII-                 RLT tl                         S  P  I  C  I   L            I  S  T                  ALL TPES              T O T A L
jVDIV.           STRATIVE                                      ---------------_--------_-_-_-_________-___
STAFF                                            KORANIC                     HOUE ECONOMICS
MIJPIU  IDISMLIFIED    QUALIFIED  UNQUALIFIED           UALIFIED  UNQUALIFIED    QUALIFIED    WIUWALIFIED
BOTH         lOi           6OTK          wOTH          mOTH          BOTH          BOTH          BOTH          BDTH           BOTH
SEXES     F  SEXES      FPam18m ES                    SEXES       F SSES        F  SEXES      F  SEXfS      F  SEES       F   SEXES      F
sO    I?     n      04     52    82       a      -     20      2      *     a      18    t8    18s    6?       SI    47      222   184
ST. MARV          54    so   14   101    124    71          a     -      88     4      11    11      17    17    245   145    174    92       419   281
i  DIVISION         U7     4    28    78    27t    OS         0      -     S7      -      *      0     4J   4It      12     2    U81  IU        "0A   224
R RIVER DIV.         0      -     71      I     U      11      1     -      24     1       -     -      I1   I      7S      7     92    2F      170    82
H am  DIV.          1U      -    17    If   12    40         7      -     U      -       I     I      8O    80    160    19    26"    70       425    S9
D. (OTMAUR)          8      -     *2      1     90      t      I      -     14     -       -     -       t     t     2       I      le    24      115    It
0.(OEORCETOUQ        9      -     02    10      94    2        1      -     19     2       -     -       9     9      71    10    112    89       138    49
RIVEiD OIV.           0     1     62      1     94    28       1      -     28      a      -      -      7      7     s9     2    124    81       193    38
(TOTAL)     169    Ct    699   280    926   29         20      -    24J    10      24    24    144   148   1106   859   1812   449    2420   0O9
-co   PI,loiag Usit. MIsIatry of 16.dntI
. .. *-.



Annex 2-8
THE GAIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SmART OF REPEATERS IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS BY CLASS, SEX AND REGION, 1988/89
DCAL aOVT.              PRIMARY I          PRIMARY 2         PRIMARY a          PRIMARY 4         PRIMARY 6          PRIMARY 0         T 0 T A L
VIA/SIVISION                                                 -         --------       ---         ---------
amTH         F    IOTH         F    BOTH          F    BOTH          F    80TH         F    BOTH          F    BOTH         F
SEXES             StXES              SEXES             SEXES              SEXES             SEXES              SEXES
'454L                  44           22   59           26    St          a8    78           58    160          07    466         513   60           504
4BO ST. MARY           111         64    aS           87   81           51   1i6           55    279          114   697         532   1691         691
STERN DIVISION         649          216   582         246   406          1     5600        174   704          226   1497        440   4166        1492
xR RVER DIVISION        141         of    59           17    07          *4    *7           s0    140         40    a"           s6    *62          242
Im  mm DIVIISION        646         224   261          9a    $45          109   597         140   405          186  G65          178   21n2 U74
WITAUR t(MD)            9t           45    6            9 0   1            7    42           4    67           18    200         27    469          110
ECKTOUN  (N.I.h.)       tOO          57    126         50    124          66    121         61    171          60    408          114   1145        425
PPRM  R        DIVISION  615        96    129          42    111          87    122          U6   151          as    291         47    1099         200
Total              1002         616   1554        S2U   1240         492   14U         526   2047         696   6,000      1,668  15110       4026
4I,
,, *  C.
!



THE CAilA                               Annex 2-9
EDUCATION SECTOR PPOJECT
STAFF AP ISAL REPRT
CUSES OF 50I0IL OIIOP-OUTS SW CLASS AND SEX, 19I6/97 - ALL RECIClt
REASS STATED FOR             Prlima   a        Primsry 2         Primry a          Primry 4           Primry 6          Primry 6
DROPPING OUT                Both              Seth              Stth                                 Both              Both
Smon         F    Sea"         F    ceas         F    Sea          F    SomefS       F    Se am         F
1. Parental blodoo
o) Morti                             - -               -        4        4        4        4        Al       8        46       46
b) Forming &ad
Dosestic work           17        I       la        4       23        9       22        a        16        6       96       84
c) Takiag Core ef
children                          6       10        7        2        2-   -                     -         -       21       I
d) Arobic/lea.ic
Educatlm                10        1       19        -        7        1        6        I       16        8        67
*) Inability to  ot                                                                                                                                   a
Sebh.l Expenee           I        I        i        6        2        1        -        -        -        -        10        I
*) Uigratle                14        7       11        I       15       10       14        6        4        -       62        29
2. Progency                    -        -        -                 -                 -        - _  _                      a 5
. Chlld dell_qoacy             a        1        2        -        8        1        6        1         7        2       21        6
4. R"eomo not
Inon/otatod                 2        2        1        1        4        1        a        1        4        a        14        J
6. slckoos/Doeth               2        -        2        -        I        -        S        -         2        -       12        -
TOTAL                    56       26       78       24       70       2        C9       20       08       59       8"0      167
In. . *



Annex 3-1
TIlE GAMBIA
EDUATIION SECTOR PRECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Enrollment and Financial l-ilications of the
Policy Reform Measures
Farollment in Primary                    EsralIeOat Ratio in Primary (S)    (19) Education In Goverme_t Budget
Project Period   Policy Period           Project Period   Poll:y Period      Project Period    Policy Period
YURES                                                  1997           200a                 1997         2008                 1"?                200a
E VEAR (1989/90)                                          77,094                                      00.0                            20.6
l-no change In current policies
oxcopt that  alorlr   of  pgraded
techers Is limited to grade J                     71,854          77,034                      49.4    4S.9                20.6               20.6
11- simulation I plu  teclwrpupii
ratio decreased from It3010 10S9
to 1:46 tn 2008                                  70.964         99.7a7                       68.0     66.6               20.5               20.5
III-iolulation It plu limit manoal
growth of budget for central
adeiniatration to 1% and for
Gambi College aol vocatIonal
education ad training to 21                     67,606         118.223                      69.9     02.9               20.6               20.6
IV-simulation III plus gradually
increme share of etducattee in
government budget free 20.01 ia
1909/90 to 28.0% Is 2008                        109,127        147,099                       73.7     81.2               22.4               28.0
V-cumulative effect of measures II-I
It salaries of upgraded teacbers Is
Increased to grae 0 Instead of
grade a of the salary scole                       93,875         124,970                      63.0     09.1               22.4               28.0
-uption   1. Goverm_ent budget gros at 8i annually
--        2. Budget for nen junior socondary schol establisebd by
(a) treafeorriag budget for seondary technical echoola to junior mecoodery school budget
botwoen 1091/92 ad 1994/96
(b) transferring budget for first throe ycors of secondary bigh schools to junior secondary school budget
between 1991/92 snd 1993804
3. Budget for junior, secondry school grovs at 6t annually from 1996/09 on'
4. Budg_t for sealer secondary schoole establisebd by Increaslng th budget for the last
twe yeare of secondary high schoole to eccooodato the third year betwen _    94M/-1990/7
6. Budget for senior secondary grew* at 1.72 annually from 1997/98 on



- 48 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 5
THE REPUBLIC             OF THE GAMBIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION$ YOUTH, SPORTS & CULTURE,
BEDFORD PLACE BUILDING, BANJ IA.
Mr. Barber S. Conaole                           12 April 1990
President
International Development Association
1618 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433                          Ref: ME/8135
Vol 3/(8)
Subjectt Education Sector Project - Letter on Education Policy
Dear Mr. Conable:
The purpose of this letter is to highlight the prznc$pal
objectives of the Government's Education Policy for the ARP4od
19C8-2003, adopted by Cabinet and Parliament in November. :148e
and to summarise the policy initiatives the Government  intehas d
to undertake  to implement  this Education Policy.  The overall
objective of the Education Policy is to increase access to ano
to improve the quality and efficiency of education in a sus-
tainable and cost-effective manner. As a first stop in achiev-
ing this objective, we propose to introduce a program of
educational  reforms and  institutional  strengthoning,  accom-                     0
panied by a sector investment programme, both of which we wish
to implement with IDA s financial assistance. This first phase
of restructuring the education sector will aim ats
-    expanding  and  improving   the  quality  of  primary
education, including increasing opportunities for
the participation of girls in education;
-    improving  the  quality  and   cost-effectiveness  of
-  condary education;                                                    I
-    i_oving  the  quality and  relevance  of  tochnical
education and vocational training programmes; and
-    improving  the  management  of  the  sector's  human,
financial and material resources.
Unfavourable economic conditions have until recently preventea
the GovernmeAt from providing adequate financing for educa-
tion, tnus eroding the provision of educational services.
However, the Government of The Gambia ac'ords a high priority
to the development of thco country s human resources and has
undertaken, within the context of its ongoing economic reform
progromme, to bring about a turn-around in the development ot
the education sector. To that offect, the Government Lntencs
to increase budgetary allocdtions  to education while promotira
a more *4ficient  use of resources.  These public  efforts wi... 



- 49 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 5
2
be complemented by community and private initiatives including
Improved Cost recovery in secondary education and vocational
training.
The specific educatLonal ocjectives we are aiming at are to
increase the primary school enrolment ratio from its current
level of  57/ to 70X  by 1996/97, and to 80Z  by the year 2003;
to phase out secondary technlcal schools and introduce a new
system of lower-secondary or middle schools and upper-secon-
dary or high schools; and to strenqthen vocational training.
Increased opportunities for the oarticipation of girls in
education will also be provided, and the quality and offect-
iveness of secondary education will be improved. The following
paraqraphs further elaborate on specific measures we are
committed to undertake in order to achieve the oolicy and
educational objectives mentioned above.
1. MEASURES  TO INCREASE EFFICIENCY AND  EFFECTIVENESS IN THE
USE OF SECTOR RESOURCES
Measure 12     More efficient  uas ot  teachers and  classroau^
in primary education
The Government  proposes  to reduce  the unit  cost of  primary
education  by  increasing  the  pupil/teacher  ratio  from  the
current level of 30:1 to 39s1 by 1996/97 and to 4531 by 2003.
This will be achieved through. (1) consolidation of schools
located too closely to each other resulting in below-average
class sizess (2) use of double-shift teaching in urban schools
and multi-grade teaching in rural schools: and (3) retraining,
to the extent possible, some under-utilised home economics  and
koranic teachers. An implementation plan, which will be dis-
cussed and agreed with IDA prior to credit effectiveness, is
under preparation.
Masure 23      Establishin   a are  appropriate salary  struc-
tbre for techets
Graduates of the proposed in-service training programme will
be promoted from grade I of the civil service salary scale to
grade 3, thereby correcting an anomaly which, in the past,
allowed graduate from in-service courses to be promoted to
grade 6, the same level as graduates from the regular pre-
service training prograamm. The Government is preparing ap-
propriate stepV to implement this measure.
Measure 3i      Re-allocating budgetary resources to  the educa-
tion ecetor
In order to ensure adequate financing for the expansion and
improvement of education, the share of education in the gover-



- 50 -                             Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 5
I
nment budget will be increased from the current 20.5X to 22.4%
by 1996/97.
Measure 4:     Budget reallocation in favour of  primary educa-
tion
In addition to the proposed increase in the education budget,
the allocation to primary education will be increased from  its
current level at the rate of 6V per year in real terms ,over
the life of the proposed project. To accommodate this growth
rate, budgetary increase will be limited to:
(1) 2% per year for the Gambia College and technical education
and  vocational training; (2) 1% per year for central adminust-
ration; (3) 5% per year for lower-secondary or middle schools;
(4) 1.7% per year for upper-secondary or high schools; and (5)
3% per year for all other categories.
2.   MEASURES TO PROMOTE DEVELOPMENT  OF PRIVATE INITIATIVES IN
EDUCATION
Measure St      Increasing  private financing  and provius±ft- f
education                                       '-
The Government recognises that maintaining adequate public
financing of education will become increasingly difficult, and
proposes to encourage and promote private participation in the
financing of education bys (1) encouraging the private sector
to establish and operate schools; (2) increasing user fees in
secondary education; and (3) introducing levie for technical
education and vocational training. Measures to increase priv-
ate provision of education would focus, in particular, on
madarassas by providing them with access to: (a)   pre- and in-
service training to madarassa teachersl (b) English-language
textbooks and teachers guides in core subjects (English,
mathematics, science) on the same basis as for public schools:
and (C) assistance to communities for the construction of
madarassa schools.
3.   P EASULE  TO INCREASE OPPORTUNITIES  FOR THE  PARTICIPATION
OF GIRLS Ift EDUCATION
Measure be      Increase  the proportion of  women in the teach-
ing force as a mans to pr,ovide more role
od ls for school-age girls
In 1988/89  of the  total of  2,420 primary  teachers only  809
were women and less than ha'f were considered qualified. To
increase the proportion of qualified female teachers, admis-
sion criteria will be applied to primary teacher training so
that by the school year 1992/93 at least 30%, and by the
sch    ymar   996/97, at            ' of  all       ^



- 51 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 5
4
would be women   Moreover, measures will be  taken to promote a
greater representation of female secondary school teachers Ln
subjects such as science, mathematics and technical courses.
Measure 7:      Support the development of  unbiased educational
materials
The elimination of gender bias and stereotypes of women in the
classroom is essential to the develooment of womenms roles as
productive participants in a developing economy and equal
partners in the home. Activities to be undertaken include
research to define the depth and scope of this phenomenon, the
development of teacher training programmes aimed at eliminat-
ing sex role stereotyping, and the production of gender-neut-
ral pedagogical materials. These new programmes and materials
will be introduced in the schools through the organisation of
seminars and workshops for teachers and supervisors.
Measure 8:      Actively   encourage  girls  to  enrol  in  more
traditionally male-dominated classes such as
science, mathematics and technical courses   b;
In this regard, proposed measures include the organisation ?f
Science, Technology and Mathematics Education (STME) clubs inM
schools in which girls will be encouraged to take part, and
the  development  of   special  incentives  (e.g.  fellowships.
awards, internships) for girls who perform well. Workshops for
educators will be organised to further the encouragement of
girls to participate in these areas of study.
Measure 9t      Incorporate  family  life  education  programmes
into the school curricula
Some urban schools have begun to include family life education
in their curricula. These programmes will be further developed
and expanded to other schools. Planned activities will include
the development of curriculum and teaching materials, related
operational r-eserch, and the incorporation of family life
programmes n teacher training.
4.   MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND  COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE SECONDARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
Measure 101    Restructurinq of  scondary general and  techni-
,:al education
A  more  cost  effectiva  secondary  education system  will  be
established by phasing out the existing secondary technical
schools and introducing a new system of two cycles of secon-
dary educations a three-year cycle of lower-secondary or
nrt  ~-                                      or



- 52 -                              Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 5
high schools. Provisions will be made for a small number of
students so that they may continue to have the Option of
completing two extra grades to obtain "A" level Qualifica-
tions. The secondary technical schools will be phased out over
a four-year period starting no later than school year 1992/93
and replaced by the new middle schools, a process which is
anticipated to be completed by the end of the school year
1995/96. Student intake to the new high schools will start in
the School year 1995/96 and be completed by 1997/9e.
I hope that these details will help clarify for you the main
direction of our education policy, and I look forward to
working with you in its implementation.
Yours sincerely,
b
_S'^*&8~E    *                         . :
Isakary Dab
Vice-Pe s ent and Minister
of  Edu  tion, Youth, Sports
&Cul  re



- 53 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 5
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Review Criteria for Policy and Reform Measures
Measures to be Introduced                      Review Criteria
1. MEASURES TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY
AND EFmFCTIVENESS IN USE OF SECTOR
RESOURCES
1.1  Increasing the pupil/teacher         (a) as a condition of project
ratio to 39sl by 1996/97 and to           effectiveness the Government would
45sl by 2003 by consolidating             submit to the Association annual
schools, introducing double-shift         targets for increasing the
and multiple-grade teaching               pupil/teacher ratio and detailed
methods in urban and rural areas          plans for consolidating schools
respectively.                             and introducing double-shift and
multi-grade teaching, including:
*i) a school map indicating areas
in which the program would be
introduced; (ii) an approach to
double-shift teaching; (iii)
annual targets for introducing
multi-grade and double-shift
teaching; (iv) teacher training
programs for double-shift and
multi-grade teaching; and (v) a
campaign for informing parents
about the merits of double-shift
and multi-grade teaching;
(b) verify during annual reviews
that the plan in (a) above is
being implemented;
(c) verify during annual reviews
that annual targets for increasing
the pupil/teacher ratio from 30:1
to 45:1 between 1990/91 and 2003
are being met;
1.2  Establishing a more equitable        (a)  as a condition for project
salary structure for teachers by          effectiveness the Government would
promoting graduates of the in-            approve regulations to upgrade
service training course to grade 3        graduates of the proposed in-
instead of grade 6 in the salary          service training course to grade 3



-54-
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 5
scale.                                    of the Civil Service Salary Scale;
(b) verify during the annual
reviews that the regulations for
upgrading graduates of the in-
service course are being applied;
1.3 Increasing MOE's share of             (a)  verify during annual reviews
Government budgetary resources            that share of education in the
from 20.S5  in 1989/90 to 22.4Z in        government budget is increased in
1996/97                                   line with the agreed targets
1.4  Increasing the annual growth         (a)  verify during annual reviews
of the primary education budget by        that the targets in are being met;
6? annually between 1990/91 and
1996/97, by limiting the annual
growth of the MOE central
administration budget to 1Z, that
of the Gambia College and
vocational education and training
to 2Z respectively and other MOE
sub-sector budgets to 32 while the
sector budget grows at 4.32
annually
2. MEASURES TO PROMOTE PRIVATE
INITIATIVES IN EDUCATION                  (a)  by March 31. 1991, the
Government would have completed a
2.1 Increasing private financing          study and made specific proposals
and provision of education by             acceptable to IDA for implementing
increasing school tuition and user        these measures;
fees for secondary schools and
levies for technical and                  (b)  verify during the annual
vocational training programs              reviews that the proposals in (a)
starting school year 1991/92.             above are being implemented;
2.2  Encourage development of             (a)  by March 31, 1991 the
Madarassas through (a) providing          Government would provide IDA with
teacher training, (b) providing           a plan to be implemented starting
english-language textbooks and            school year 1991/92, specifying
teachers guides in core subjects          criteria for the provision of
(english. mathematics and                 assistance to madarassas,
science), and (c) provide                 including access to teacher
assistance to communities for             training for madarassa teachers,
construction of Madarassas.               textbooks and teachers guides in
core subjects and assistance for
construction of madarassa schools;



-    -5                               Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 5
(b) verify during annual reviews
that the plan in (a) is being
implemented on schedule;
(c) verify during annual reviews
that assistance is being provided
according to the criteria listed
in (a) above
3.   MEASURES TO INCREASE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENROLLMENT FOR
GIRLS
A Plan of Action for increasing           In order to monitor and evaluate
enrollment opportunities for girls        the effectiveness of activities to
was reviewed and agreed during            promote participation of girls in
negotiations.  The plan of Action         the education system, the existing
is expected to be implemented             inter ministerial committee would
starting school year 1991/92 and          be enlarged to include community
would include the following:              and other leaders, and an officer
would be assigned to monitor
trends and how these trends are
affected by measures undertaken in
the project.
3.1 Increasing the proportion of
women in the teaching force as a          (a) verify during annual reviews
means to provide more role models         that the admission criteria is
for school girls by applying              being applied.
admission criteria that would
require that by school year
1992/93 at least 30Z and by school
year 1996/97 at least 40Z of
entrants to teacher training
courses will be women and that
females would be better
represented as teachers of math,
science and technical subjects
3.2  Developing gender-neutral            (a) specific proposals for
educational materials by                  addressing the problem and a time
undertaking a study to identify           table for their implementation
the scope and nature of the               would be agreed with the
problem, training teachers to             Government following completion of
eliminating sex bias in the               the study in June, 1991;
classroom, and developing gender-
neutral teaching materials.



- 56 -
Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 5
(b) agree with the Government on
a training program and schedule
for training teachers on
eliminating sex bias in schools;
(c) textbooks and other teaching
materials would be evaluated while
they are being trial tested to
ensure that they are gender
neutral and steps taken to revise
these materials if not;
3.3  Actively encourage girls to          (a)  agree with the Government on
enroll in more traditionally male-        a plan for setting up and running
dominated classes such as science,        the STME clubs, and on the
mathematics, and technical courses        proposed fellowships and awards
by setting up Science, Technology         and criteria for awarding them;
and Mathematics Education clubs
(STME) and providing fellowships          (b)  verify during annual reviews
and other awards for girls who            that the plan in (a) is being
perform well.                             implemented.
3.4  Incorporate family life              (a)  ensure that the primary
education programs into school            school curriculum and teaching
curricula through operational             materials include family life
research, teaching materials              education which promotes a
development, workshops and teacher        positive attitude toward gender
training                                  roles in society, that there is a
program of research to analyze and
make recommendations on knowledge
gaps in this area, and that there
is a program for training teachers
in family life education.
(b)  verify during annual reviews
that the curriculum in (a) above
is being taught, that research is
being undertaken according to an
agreed schedule and that teacher
training programs are being
implemented.
4. IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND COST-
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SECONDARY
EDUCATION SYSTEM
4.1  Restructuring of secondary           (a)  verify during annual reviews
general and technical education by        that no new pupils are admitted
(a) phasing out secondary                 into the first year of secondary
technical schools over a four year        technical schools in 1992193, and
period 1992193 to 1995/96, and            that years 2-4 of these schools
using the capaclty for the first          are phased out in 1993/94, 94/95
cycle of the new secondary                and 95/96 respectively;



- 57 -
Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 5
education system; (b) replacing            (b)  verify during annual -eviews
the first three years of the               that admissions to the first cycle
current secondary high schools by         of the new secondary education
the first cycle of the new                 system (middle schools) starts in
secondary system from 1992193 to          1992/93 and is completed by
1994/95; and (c) replacing the            1994195 and that the first three
fourth and fifth years of high            years of existing high schools are
schools with the new three year           phased out over the same period;
senior secondary schools starting
in 1995/96 with the first year,            (c)  verify during annual reviews
followed by the second and third          that admissions to the second
years in 1996/97 and 1997/98              cycle of the new secondary
respectively,                             education system (high schools)
starts in 1995/96 and is completed
by 1997/98. that the fourth and
fifth years of existing high
schools are phased out over the
same period.
.



- 58 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 6
THE GAMBTA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Strategsy and Program for Construction and Maintenance of Primary School
Classrooms
1. Obiectives
The primary school construction program is intended to assist the
Government in expanding access to primary education through the provision
of additional classroom places as envisaged in its recently announced
policies for sectoral reform. Further the program is aimed at: (a)
rectifying the regional imbalance of access to primary school education;
(b) maintaining and encouraging the involvement of the communities in the
construction process; (c) improving the quality, the longevity as well as
the soundness of the coammunity build primary schools.
In order to increase primary school enrollment ratios from about 57Z
in 1987 to 70? in 1997 (the end of the project period), as envisaged in the
Project, approximately 38,000 student places would be required by 1997. It
is estimated that about 20Z to 302 of these requirements may be accomodated
through the introduction of efficiency measures (double-shift and multi-
grade teaching, etc.) The proposed project would assist the Government by
providing the remaining 30,000 student places (or 600 classrooms at the
rate of 50 pupils per classroom) needed during the project period to meet
the Governmeat's plans for primary school expansion, and in upgrading 200         '
classrooms to maintain the value of existing investments.
2. Means
To achieve these objectives, support will be provided for: (a) the
improvement of the design of the buildings (which should result in low cost
construction ti.rough maximizing the conmunity participation as well as the
use of locally produced or available building materials); and (b) the
initiation and the promotion of an effective and efficient collaboration
between commmnities and the MOE (through technical support at the regional
level. the training of local skilled workers from the communities during
the construction stage and the provision of construction and maintenance
guides).



- 59 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 6
On condition that the communities provide land, unskilled labor,
waver, local building materials and on site security during the
construction period, the project would provide drawings (specifically
developed for the classrooms and toilet blocks to be built under the
project), a kit of simple construction tools, skilled workers (to be
recruited locally), building materials not available locally and
supervision and training. The project would also provide about 80 water
wells to be constructed in schools where there is a ned for water supply.
In addition the project will provide furniture for the estimated 800
classrooms to be rehabil4tated or built over the 6 years of the
construction program.
3.   Outputs
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established within the MOE will
be responsible for the implementation of this component.
At the national level, the PIU will be responsible for developing
standard drawings for classrooms, latrine blocks, furniture and for the
production of the construction and maintenance guides. The PIU will also
be responsible for the preparation of all documents regarding
specification, quantities and procurement of building materials, simple
construction tools and furniture. The PIU w'll ensure that all goods
provided meet performance standard and that timely and sufficient provision
of goods are provided at the regional level. In addition, the PIU will
provide regular supervision in the regions, maintain records and prepare
quarterly reports on primary school construction progress.
At the regional level, 5 mobile construction teams will be created
(established within existing REO's offices) in order to provide support to
the coummnities in the construction process and also regarding the
maintenance aspects. Staffing of each mobile team will include one
construction coordinator (to be identified possibly through NVTC/GTTI) and
one assistant construction coordinator (to be recruited as overseas
volunteer e.g. VSO). Capacity of supervision and training of each team
based on the assumptions described below, are estimated at about 8
classroom blocks per year or about 24 classrooms. These figures result in
an estimated provision of about 120 classrooms per year on a 'cruising
pace* for the 5 construction teams. The construction program during the
first year would be modest in order to build up experience regarding the
construction process, to deve'op close interaction with the communities and
to identLfy and train future site supervisors. During the first year only.
about 30 classrooms are expected to be built with the participation of 2
construction tean, starting operation in early 1991. In the second year.
all 5 teams would be mobilized and about 90 classrooms (28 blocks) would be
constructed. In the third year, when the mobile construction teams have
reached their 'cruising pace', about 120 classrooms would be built and or
rehabilitated. It is expected that through this process, about 200



- 60 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 6
classroom blocks, equivalent to about 600 classrooms, will be constructed
during the life of the project.
The usual standard buildings done by the communities in The Gambia
are made with loaded walling (made with blocks varying from dry mud to
concrete) assembled with different kinds of mortar and usually plastered.
Carpentry is usually done with split rhun palm poles and corrugated
iron sheets are used for covering. Soils are generally bonded with clay or
made with very poor concrete.
Doors and windows are of different kinds metal, wood, wood frame with
corrugated iron sheets, steel bar grill or nothing at all in some cases,
depending on the location and on the resources of the communities.
Communities are generally not in a position to purchase any kind of
imported building materials and these L'Aterials are generally received as
an assistance from different sources (NGO's), embassy, people born in the
village and presently living outside etc.). In some particular cases,
communities also receive limited technical assistance (skilled workers)
during the construction period. Communities provide usually aggregate and
unskilled labor. In general, communities are usually available for
community work during the dry session (6 months from December to Hay).
4. Problems and proposals
Host of the classrooms built through community self-help schemes
(known as tesito), experience a number of construction deficiencies,
incluaing the following:
Roofing: Water proofing of the covering is generally poor,
mainly because of unflatted support for the sheets and use of unsuitable
nails for fixing. A solution could be the utilization of imported dressed
wood for purling to be linked with rhun palm carpentry frame with correct
nails or steel bands.
Lack of soundness of the carpentry frame mainly because of
insufficient brace or incorrect design of the frame and use of unadapted
nails. Solutions could be the provision of correct design demonstrated
through reduced scale ezamples, construction guide, strict supervision and
provision of screwed nails.
Linkage between carpentry and walling are usually not enough or
misplaced, or in some case not existing at all and in all cases not visible
because they are covered by plastering. This situation results usually in
the blowing-off of the roof by the wind and consequently in a large scale
and unacceptable waste of imported and costly building materials. A
solution could be sustained supervLsion in order to guarantee soundness of
those links and adaptation of the design in order to stay with visible link
to allow fo* easy maintenance survey (no plasteriag over the link, link
under the top belt of walling when exist-ing, link made with steel bar
better than with steel band).
Wallings Major problems regarding walling, are related to
cracks and erosion. A solution could be (i) better protection of the wall



- 61 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 6
by sufficient overhanging of the roof, (ii) provision of concrete belts at
the foundation level and at the top of the walling, (iii) an adapted
solution for the collection of running water from the roof and correct
drainage of the soll, (iv) an adapted design for the carpentry and adapted
size for the classrooms in regard to the building materials used for
carpentry. Use of wood: All wood available and used in the construction
is subject to the attack of termites. This problem concerns mainly the
carpentry, the doors, and the windows when walling are made with mud
blocks. A solution could be (i) an adapted treatment of all wood utilized
in the construction, (ii) an anti-termite belt in the walling when local
materials are used, (iii) and possibly the reduction in the use of wood.
S. Design of adapted proposals
In order to mazimize the chances of success of the replicability
of the construction program, solutions should be designed in line with the
actual and usual building know how of the communities involved in the
construction process and should take into account the building materials
usually available in The Gambia.
Objectives should be to improve the quality of the production
starting with existing practices and processes which is better than
introducing entirely new conceptions.
Architectural surveys (including review of existing designs used
by NGOs such as Action Aid) would be undertaken for the production of three
different kinds of documentation: a) Detailed technical proposal for the
major components of the construction (foundations, walling, carpentry and
roofing, doors and windows); b) Specification and quantity of the building
materials needed for latrine blocks and different classroom blocks (2, 3 or
4 classrooms); c)  An adapted presentation of elements (a) and (b) in order
to be integrated into the construction guide to be used by comnities and
local skilled workers. The construction guide should also include
practical information regarding the construction process (where and how to
receive assistance in the construction process, how to implement
construction, how to orient construction, how to produce an horizontal
platform. how to make a 90Z angle, how to mix building materials, etc.).
6. Mobile Construction Teams
Under the proposed project, coununities will be provided with
technical and logistic support (as well as training in rudimeatary
construction skills) from mobile construction teams when constructing
primary school classrooms in their villages. These teams will be
established at the five regional education centers. The construction
program, and in particular, the frequency and timing of supervision by the
five mobile teams is based on the assumption that: a) after the initial
-first two.years of implementation, each team will make at least one visit
per week to each site; and b) each team would vislt two sites a day.



-62-
Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 6
The supervision capacity of one team (2 site supervisors) could
therefore be estimated at about 8 sites together assuming that 4 days per
week will be devoted to site supervision and the rest to administrative
tasks and supervision of furniture production. Each construction site
would need about aix months 'n terms of supervision as follows: 1 month
for mobilizing community participation 4 months for 'building period'.
(including masonry (3 months) and carpentry (1 month), 1 month for
complementiAry works (fencing and plantations). The construction program
would be organized so that the building period* would take place as much
as possible during the dry season (December to May); the communities have
been properly motivated to provide on a systematic and sustained manner
sufficient labor over a 10 month period; construction in the same area
would not start at the same date in order to provide efficient supervision
and training, and each classroom block will have an average number of three
classrooms. The five Mobile Teams would be located at Regional Education
Offices as follows:
Location                  Reg ion              Division
Brikama              Region II                 Western Division
Kerewan              Region III                North Bank Division
Hansakonko           Region III                Lower River Division
Georgetown/Bassan   Region IV                  Upper River Division
Basse                Region IV                 Upper River Division
7. Actions to be Taken
The Government has affirmed it would: (a) obtain the services
of volunteers from an organization such as VSO; a formal letter requesting
such assistance should be sent to the VSO office as soon as possible, but
no later than the end of June 30, 1990, (b) undertake the necessary studies
(production of standard architectural and technical requirements,
specification of building materials and preparation of standard bidding
document for procurement of building materials and of furniture); this
preparatory work will be completed under PPF financing by December 31,
1990; and (c) present before Credit effectiveness on the basis of a school
mapping survey, the names of the precise locations of classrooms to be
constructed during the first two years of the construction program, and
criteria for the selection of the construction of sites for the subsequent
years of the school building program.
8. Costs
The Gamb'a has a long experience and tradition of community
self-help in school construction. These schools commonly known as te sito
schools are usually very simple buildings, and because of poor workmanship,
their average life is uncommonly low. The proposed project would make



_  ; _                            Annex 3-4
--                                 Page 6 of 6
maximum use of the country's community self-help tradition. It would also
improve the construction deficiencies commonly experienced by these
schools, through the use of mobile skilled construction workers and more
durable construction materials. some of which would have to be imported.
Unit classroom construction costs is estimated at about Dalasis 1,000 per
sq. meter (USS 120 equivalent) of which approximately 25? constitutes the
communities contribution in terms of local materials and labor. Unit
classrooms rehabilitation cost is estimated at about Dalasis 500 per sq.
meter (US$60 equivalent). Supervision cost is estimated at about 7Z. In
comparison, comparable classroom facilities that are being constructed
through private contractors by another donor agency (using ICB and LCB
procedures) are estimated to cost about 1,900 dalauis per sq. meter (USS
230).



- 64 -
Annex 3-4
A;ttachmenc I
Table I - Criteria foo Site Selection
...__.___.________.........._____._.__..
Construction Activity
.____ .......... . ..._------_-------- ...................... ------------ .-.----.-----..--..-..---....--....-... .
I   Rehabilitation    I   Zatension (1)         I  Now Construction
criteria             j(Minimum  3 dclasses) I(Kinii     3 classes)  I(Minimm 3 classes)  I
._________._..--------------I------------------I----*----------------I--------------------I
(a) Minimam Population             I                       I                        I
---_..                                                          ........I  I  I
1.500 petew ns - itdividual I            Not           I          X            I           X
village, or group of           I     Applicsble        I                        I
villages within 5 k- CadiUil                           I                        I
(b) Demand for Schooling           I                       I                        I
---------------------------I                           I                        I
Gross enrollment ratio         I          X             I          X            I          x
within the intake area         I                        I                       I
(3-5 k  radius): a    701   I                          I                        I
I                       I                        I
Pupil/Class ratio within    I             X             I          X            I           x
the intakearea       >35 a                              I                       I                       8
(c) Motivation of Population    I                           I         -I
-- - - - - -- - - - - - -I                             I                       I
Evidence of community          I         Not            I         Not           I           X
Facilities financed/           I      Applicable        I     Applicable        I
constucted by local            I                        I                       I
communities.                   I                        I
Contributions mounting to I                x            I          x            I           X
at least 251 of Investment I                            I                       I                        I
=_______......................................__.__.............._. ...... ____................. _._......... ____........._.____..............  .....I
d) Proximity of existing                     n lot         I          x             I         Not
school: D - 3  n k                    AppiLcable        I                       I      Applicable
              _____._.___..........                                                                     ...................................................................I
;e) Existing lnfrastructure:    I                           I                        I
_   _ __ Z   @   |                       ~~~~~I I!
presence of mll or                        N lot         I          X            I           x
potential for drilling.               AppiLcable                    I                        I
dispensary within a 15 km                               |                                                I
radius, marketplace within I                            I                       |
S ft radius, c Cmmy            I                         ty
center within S km  adius  I                            |
(1) Mini-mu does not apply where new constructions are plnned.



ANNEX 3-4
Attachent 2
AREA AND CAPITAL Cosr PER OFFICE SPACE PER STAFF AND OF CLASSROM SPACE PER STWENT
--------------------..-.----------__------------------------------__---------__----_--------
Ba. Costs to USVI (1)
Arma I   eq.. (.2)           unit
COs"   PorUnit                     Per P I see
Capacty                         Nat   Not    C,.  -              - _________________-_         --_____
-------                         Per   Per  Per Mg        CIvII Equipt.              Civil Equipt.
Unit Per Unit Total    MNt Or..  Pion   Unit  (Oreos)          Work Furnit.   Total       Workt Furnit.   Total
I'      U      U      112   l2    M2    N2        USS        us$      use     us$       us$    us        us$
1. Primry School
-N   Conetretlee
* Classroom          *       50   150    1SO   11U   1.0    50    6120    37,600   31 200  68,700            Sl60     824    S174
* Office                      I      I      12   15  12.0    12    3120         1,600    £i3o   82,130   61,300    333   62,180
* Storag             1        1      1      12  1i  12.0    12    *120    61,so3           3417  62,147    31 600   8347   82,147
* tolleto block      2        4      a      14   16    1.0       7    4120    81,050        30  61060        i2s       30    3208
Black of a Classrooms   1       SO    1SO    1in   2U    1.S   In         6120   323,200   $1,927  308,17      S13      $16    m201
Rehabilitation (2)    1      150   15O      13  23U    1.8    13         N0    *14,100  61,827 316,027         mm4    31i    3107
- WVlls end PUs (;)                                                                62,700   81,824  54,024
(1) Cost for Susrvilsio by Mobile Ceestructlio Units estimated at mX Is ot Included;
(2) For a Block of 3 clsrooms;
(3) Expected to be reqired In 406 of -  etlte.
NOTE: Inputs frem camait"e (ukilWl  labor and local coeetractio mterieals) are etimted at 251



Annex 3-4
_FAaEF  VOEK F.OsAa  FOR OK  MOBILE flAIt                                                    Attachment 3
39 0                            9 3993                              19 92                                19 93 
sF] iuTi 1T 321  12 314I516I   81 9 1101I2I  1 2 13 14 15  6 1  B   1011111211 12  3 4  5  6  1   910
d_safEll s_ odr s*asoa
arst gear             ICruising Ita* (5 tears)________                                                          --
l f SIj   2    1cc                PP | -si2    CC                      PP    sit.2    CL ciF[noe:. 
PP    *t*3    CC           .      F -*3*3   ICC                      1P4 .n3    Ztt 2-.CC
Pf             ic                 p site          cc*                  ppI sit* 3   ]CC sl4    <1 
PP    piIe 4    CC                PP  sib. 54]CC                         PP  sile 4     CC4                   t j |   !'
PPI  s *5      cc                 PP[  iwsjcc                          PP [ n.jj ]cc                         f l 
PP    site4  cC    PFt      it7  cc                       PP       i   ]cc S'1l_
PP   i zds8    C                     PP    it 7 i   CC                    I.
_ .  Ei GiiZc                           Ppp  _sit__    1"C
Li buiMing Weiod
Pf-   peeperationf/-abdizatIw                 PPi  st t0  ICE                        f L  sam, to   a:p i.
iC    cEm*WtSofWS vs__
'I *                                          *f1{.*|



* _ _   _   _           w                                                   w  w 
C- 111 LIZI  EZI EZIZI1 EZZI1
r-ZII  -    LIZI EZZIZI -111   II
,XC_ni f - '4 Z 1 j.                  UII---      =     U
o ~~~~~~c~-   ,~ 3                                >.                 m  ,.
-=#          F           w   ---|                              -
=1 3uwtpP31x                                                   U. oU  1J sW   - U. 1
17 ih --- 1X8UUS 



68 -             GhTpofXfTgG.g                               Annex 3-3
pgijj  cm  iW"miii tm wIU                     Page  1 of
ut.0 Cut Tabl8                                       of  2
e nen nn n Jim T"
I. 1SW cD3T
*
A. CLASOa  aMjrIm /a
1. CRWSIIn P30K
la  .asm   2aawcm           mm   b                                       10.2  2.4   M4   M.4   M.4   7.4  140.4
iKU CLA    ULOLOW/90  13 CUIlSKt FuNIWATI                             -26  99.0    9.0  Sp.#  99.0  W9.0  3.21.7
NC :JD= Utt        uJ9T To = iim     p    nPTIU                           64.4   13.3  141.   I.3143.3 1J        3   925.4
RMOLTATIN W 0i29     FKXITIUMnI   DMS /c                              '   5   4          3.6 .6  .6   3 .6  R3.    23t.4
RULTATI2W CUM    19 1BIU9U t r                   f  PN MTO 9 1            94.7  "94.7   94.7   9.?   947   94.7   54.0
MI.:¶aTION W alum  F.UTUMOMY To I um  PmxaTm                         *   21. 0  t        1.0   21 .0 t1 .0           VA.o  2.
ilU 4  M"                                                          24.1 P  4.2   40.2   40.2   40.2   4.2   40.2   26.6
MLLS Am M"                                                          3.0    M*       0    3.0    3.0    3.0   8*0    56.3
s. FlinU                                                              -  14.   213.9  21.t  213.9  23.9  213.9  1.213.9
SOM   FMlI                                                            * 64.7   57.3        57.3 57.3   57.    57.3   M2.7
"   CXug  TleIu PO"E                                                  S.2  942.7 1,434.0  4 4.0 3464.0 1.8.0 13.0.e 394.?
.. RESICIMi UTItSO WUISi41
WUI                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~* 102.3  -    -     -           10:.,*
EfUIPIW                                                                                                               Is- 6.1  -  -  -  b:
UEII.tS Id                                                            ' - 3.0       '      '              '         -
'aJLIIIU  Sw0                                                       5.5   11.0   UJ.0   1.0   11.0   1.C    I._    69^:
I.h-ToIaI tll.    IUCIIUE UWUVIIN                                      5.5   0.0   1.0   1111.     11.0   lt.0    1.3   W6.0
S*-Tu1 Mow= IWM /                                                         7.1151.? 145.0 13495.0 1,495.0 1M495.0 l 49 .3 9661.
3 .            4WLI  VUE  213U ITUS
1. LOIOU  WOrLf
:2NVUUCTI OF CX Wl   /O                                               -   514  119.3                                 170.5
4FWHlTCVA  /    iDiiE; FM                                                  s.:   '.9        -                         13.1
;ouvw     .OES                                                           @  .0      *              - 
KOUIPIiEt                                                             -    7.5    ^.5       *             -            15.0
4HI0ES                                                                -    0.0      -              .*     -      -     0.0
F UinZlE                                                              -   t.9    t.                -      -      -    45.,
tEO(cA4L ASTUIa                                                       -   :V.o   24.P   24.3  'P4.0       *      -    96.0
:qLLAOPUCE1I4UY 1fl                                                   -   4t.       -       -      -      -      .    40.0
S*-tc1 OCliU.   ULO-  1-.1.   16.t   '.0   '.                                                                           400.3
:. MTM. PUttouN tS   UAISt
c      m     S                                                             ..   .4..
1W
.?     *P                     - t r
FLE P                                                                 -   ::.:    '                       -*
C3Wt   S                                                                             .                           .        4
F'i:-TsI M1           T                                                                            4a.4 -
w -          cw  I Mit  Puz    TM   M                                                 4.  6 4t:.: :6.:  ':..$
*  Items shown twice represent IDA SUC-financing respectively.



Annex 3-3
- 69-                                                   Page  ' of ?
em .@s -                                                                                        - ^   -          *l
fIb21".                                                                       ::..-.v                     -                1 2.J4
Wor                                                   ~~~~~~~~~-   .      -          -   -              i .e
1F = 32 * v ¢*   0.1*
IlMIL  uf          lb                                                  12.:   :4.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   12.:
5,.Vha1 ivinn L1                                                          2':   mu    :..4   :.    24.4  12.2           ' 
uai                                                                       -    6.6    44        -   -*        -       - U2.2
ncm                                                                            74 -    .1   97         -              -     t.4
e       I                                                                 *   1.no    "3I   15.        -       -      -      .
ia-ro     muns=  a        i              1*Us.'  aia.   U2.1                                                                 30-
S"Ftno  la_ - -                                                          #u2 -    -  - -   -   -
Ta DNS=  cm"                                                                *.? U.U        :,A. 1.1,.6 a.m.8 i.w.02 1,9.3 4fenl.a
it.         ConS!
OVA=  UCM                                                               IM.t    1.1  -2.    slot   21.9   31.9   li.: ' 07.3
YU LIU Pm                                                                 .*I    .      me   3.I   21.0   22.0    St., 161.3
CC m     m  CNN                                                           a..    a.e    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.l   -1.t  t .0
ms #ina um                                                           L2?    2.7    W?    0.1                -      --    9.1
DEW            lst 1Y11                                                     *   aa.e   alla ds1  21.8   21.1            *   fo9.0
min Iwis.  mwim   MiS                                                     04    1lo     1.0    t.O    1.4    1.0    1.0       4.3
t       w51   -                                                           1    102.4  16.4  163.4  1624   1l.2               112.:
otal Z1_ Cum                                                                 NJ   1I9 1. U11 t      1.1    1.2  U1O.   1U.9 1.z2.S
Old                                                                         Lu.. 21 . 2 2.U   I,967 172.0M 161.2 144.2 11.56.2
d<  -                                                                            -  * 2                       -_
OIUlL OM1  0
* u        m11* .1usaa    l
. awsmuv
h LOCA. M TIl
w2 nz9N 16s



- 70 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 10
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Development of Curricula and Instructional Materials
SUMHAfY
1.        The textbook component of the Education Sector Project would
support the Government's Education Reform Policy through facilitating the
development of revised syllabuses for primary schools (grades 1 - 6) and
new syllabuses for the new middle schools (grades 7 - 9). Based on these
syllabuses the project would assist curriculum specialists from the CDC and
MOE to write, revise or adapt pupils' textbooks and teachers' guides for
core subjects for grades 1 - 9 and distribution of those textbooks.
Training, technical assistance, equipment and furniture would also be
provided in support of these measures.
2.        The provision of the new textbooks for primary and middle        b
schools, progressively from 1992 onwards, would provide the opportunity- t
introduce a new textbook policy which would institute partial cost recovety
from users in primary schools and middle schools.  The cost recovery would
be in the form of fees pupils would pay annually. The fees would be
collected by headmasters and consolidated into an interest bearing textbook
revolving account to be established in a coeercial bank. The parents
contribution would be matched by Government contribution. Detailed
guideline and procedures for the establishment, operations, safekeeping,
conversion into hard currency etc., would be formulated with the assistance
of an expert on revolving funds.
OBJECTIVES OF THE TEXTBOOK COMPONENT
3.        The objectives of the textbook component are to assist the
Government to:
a)   Revise and/or develop syllabuses and manuscripts in the
core primary and middle school subjects for teachers and
for pupils,
b)   Publish teachers' and pupils' books in core subjects for
primary and for the new 3-year middle schoc's for pupils
and teachers, and
c)   Assist the MOE in developing a book policy to ensure a
sustainable system of book supply to primary and middle
schools.



- 71 -                             Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 10
STRATEGY
4.   To achieve the objectives the following strategies will be
adopted;
(a)  Primary and middle schools syllabuses and manuscripts
The CDC is responsible for producing revised syllabuses for primary
schools and new syllabuses for the new middle schools. To this end,
the CDC, has established subject panels, consisting of subject
specialists from the CDC inspectorate, Gambia College and experienced
teachers. The maximum number of part time panel members per subject
is five, with the exception of middle school science where there is a
maximum of four panel members each in physics, biology/health.
chemistry. The CDC has identified suitable teachers, inspectors, and
teacher trainers as part time panel members with the panel leader
being a curriculum officer of the CDC. Curriculum staff for subjects
not currently covered by the CDC establishment would be appointed.
At the primary level the CDC's priorities in forming subject panels
and in producing syllabuses were for English. maths, science, social
studies and religious education. Its middle school priority subjects.
were English, maths, science, social studies, religious education an(
agricultural science. For these priority subjects the part-time - :
panel members worked full-time over the summer vacation 1989 and have
completed the first drafts of the syllabuses for these subjects.
All fieldwork on the curriculum (evaluation of the existing primary
school syllabuses and materials and the needs assessment survey for
the new middle schools) was conducted concurrently with the
subject panels' production of the draft syllabuses for grades 1-9
(primary and middle schools).
The same subject panels which developed the syllabuses will also
develop manuscripts or adapt existing books. To accomplish this, the
non-CDC panel members will work in their spare time and will attend
panel meetings uhen work will be allocated and contributions will be
discussed. As panel members would be attending the meetings and
writing/revising manuscripts, outside office hours, they would be
paid consultants' fees for the meetings, and when acceptable
manuscgipts/adapted books of both the pupils and teachers' books for
each grade are completed. For developing new books the panels will
meet at least twice a month and for adapting books once per month.
Before manuscript writing/book adaptation is started, the BPMRU will
organize seminars for the CDC subject panels in order to explain



A=nex 3-6
- 72 -                              Page 4 of 10
These specialists may be subject panel member or may be teacher
trainers from Gambia College. The primary school courses will be
held in the four REOs and in Banjul and will last about 10 days. The
middle school special courses will also be designed by the CDC and
will take the fornm of six day courses of more generalized in-service
training and an introduction to the now books and syllabuses. CDC
will provide one curriculum officer per course who will be
accompanied by three resource persons, as for the primary school
courses. The middle school courses will be held in the four RECs.
For all courses the CDC officers will have their travel costs covered
by the CDC budget from the MOE. Travel and where necessary
accomodation costs for participating teachers should be covered by a
special provision bl the MOE to the REC operating budget. These
costs are included in the project budget.
Publication of primary and middle school books
5.        Once the CDC has completed the draft syllabuses, the next step
would be to develop manuscripts that best meet the requirements of these
syllabuses. This could be done either by adapting existing books or
rewriting new manuscripts.  For this project the Government has opted to
adapt books in the case of primary school books, but to create  new         ;
manuscripts in the case of the new middle schools. A tender will be
launched to identify and procure primary books that most closely match thM
primary school syllabus developed by CDC, as discussed earlier.
Agricultural science and pupils' religious education books whose material
is international and which are expensive to create and to adapt will be
bought off the shelf. The only books to be created will be primary social
studies and teachers' religious education books.
6.        The BPMRH  will be the "publishing manager' in charge of the
program of publication of Pro4ect books. It will also publish or print
books with short print cuns such as the teachers' guides and will publish
the pilot ttxt editions. CDC and BPMRU will co-ordinate closely in their
mutually dependent roles of author and book publishing manager.
Coordination will be through the CDC liaison officer for books that would
be edited, illustrated and printed overseas because the task would be
beyond BP)aU'S editing/printing capability. The subject panels would
coordinete with BPMRU for books (i.e. t3achers manuscript) when BPMRU
itself would be responsible for publishing and printing.
7.        In short the IPMRU will manage the working relationship,
contractual and cost elements between the CDC and foreign publishers
selected as a result of the tender. It will conduct negotiations with
publishers on working methods, technical specifications, costs, reprinting
rights. It will be responsible for detailed planning of the book
publishing program and for achieving agreement on critical operational
dates with the CDC for the preparation of pilot testing materials and final
manuscripts. The CDC will have"final pedagogic responsibility and the
BPHRU will have



- 73 -                                 Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 10
technical specificatics (eg. number of page*, colors, format),
presentation of manuscripts, submission of satzple chapters. etc.
The CDC will appoint a liaison officer who will represent CDC at the
regular meetings between CDC and BPMR. in its role of publishing
manager, for progress chasing, for setting up meetings, for writing
minutes and for making sure that both BPMRU and CDC are fully
informed. He will be jointly responsible with the BPMRU for drawing
up a statement on the method of worn for manuscript development end
book publication, submission of materials for evaluation, deadline
dates, etc. This statement will be adhered to by all the CDC subject
panels while adapting books or creating manuscripts.
Manuscripts and adapted materials will be pilot tested by the CDC as
long as the publishing timetable allows (in 20 primazry and 6 wmidc'e
schools). Where it does not allow, specialist readers identified by
the CDC will evaluate and comment on materials. The materials to be
pilot tested will be edited, deaigned and illustrated by BPMRU before
being tested in schools to make the pilot test as real as possible
and to get more accurate feedback on the materials. The BPMRU would
do all the necessary publishing work on the pilot test materials.
The CDC subject panel leader will co-ordinate with the BPMRU editor
for the production of the pilot text materials. Special orientation,
sessions for teachers in the pilot schools will be held during-schboo
holidays.
CDC will be supported in its detailed work on adapting/developing
materials to accompany the new syllabuses through curriculum subject
specialists. ODA already has an English curriculum specialist in
place and will be providing specialists in Mathematics and in Science
whose mandate will include assistance to the curriculum materials
development part of the Project. The project itself will fund a
specialist in Social Studies for two years who will also provide
managerial support to the Director CDC.
(b)   Teacher training in the new books and syllabuses
To ensure that the new syllabuses and books are properly introduced
into schools, teachers mUst be trained in their use.  To this end
special short courses will be provided for teachers who do not attend
Gambia College, which will be organizing regular in-service training
courses when the new syllabuses and books are introduced. The
programme of special short courses will take place over three years
and will harmonize with introduction of new syllabuses and 'aaterials.
Thus, in 1992 the primary school short course will introduce
materials for grades 1 and 2 and the middle school course materials
for grade 7, in 1993 the primary school course will cover materials
for grade 3 and 4 and the middle school course for grade 8. and in
1994 the primary school course will cover grades 5 and 6 and the
middle school course grade 9. CDC will be responsible for designing
and wrLting the courses and wlll provide one curriculum officer per
course who will be accompanied by three specialists/reso'..ce persons.



_ 74 -                                Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 10
administrative responsibility with regard to foreign publishers, book costs
and the book publishing process.
8.        Subject to agreement on conditions following the publishing
tender, foreign publishers will be contracted to supply quantities of new
and adapted pupils, books and, if requested, to pass the film to the BPMRU
for reprints. This will allow books to remain in print and available in
The Gambia if BPMRU is not able to reprint. The original publishers will
continue to provide the books to bookshops and to the HOE until the BPMRU
is able to take over. Before the BPMRU takes over, however, all
arrangements will be made to enable the BPMRU to sell copies to bookshops.
This is crucial in view of the number of parents who already buy books and
of the fact that Project books will remain in schools and will be shared by
pupils from grades 1-5.
9.        The position is similar on the publishing of the teachers'
books. Since the print-runs will be so small, low-cost typesetting and
printing will be sought, since there will be no economies of scale
possible. Newly created teachers' books (primary social studies, religious
education) will be published by the BPMRU. Adapted teachers' books (as
long as the degree of adaptation is no greater than 50 per cent) may either
be edited, designed, illustrated, typeset by the original publisher who ;
controls the copyright or by the BPMRU under licence. But the printinX v
will be completed by the BPMRU.
10.       To enable the BPMRU to play its role as publishing
manager/publisher/printer the Project will provide training for publishing
staff and short-term technical assistance in publishing and printing. A
small raount of printing equipment will be supplied which will improve the
quality of manufactured books in the BPMRU and will complement the
equipment to be provided by the African Development Bank and the ODA.
Sufficient books will be printed to cater for expected needs for three
years, with an allowance for trainee and practicing teachers, lose and
damage, enrollment growth and an average three year book life for pupils'
books, four years for teachers' books.
Roles in the gublishing of books
CDC                         BPMRU                       Publishers
Submit offers of
books for adaptation
and publishing
services.
Evaluate offcgs from        Evaluate offers from
pedagogic point of          publishing and
view.                       printing point of
view, including
technical
sp- ,cifications,



_ 75 -                               Annex 3-6
copyright and                        Page 6 of 10
publishing rights
Plan publishing
program
Subject panel members      Conduct author
attend seminary             seminar
giving publishing
information
Write draft
manuscripts for pilot
testing.
Edit, design, produce
pilot-text editions
Revise manuscripts
following pilot
testing/manuscript
evaluation
Receive manuscripts.
Pass some to
publishers publish
others, according to
publishing programe.
Edit, design,              Edit, design,
illustrate, type-set,       illustrate, type-
submit proofs to CDC.      set, submit proofs to
CDC
and to BPMRU
Receive proofs from        Receive information
BPMRU and from             copy of proofs from
publishers.  Correct,      publisher
return all to BPMRU.
Receive CDC's
corrected proofs.
Examine publishers
proofs for cost
efficiency and
conformity to
contractual
undertaking. return
to publishers. For



- 76 -
Annex 3-6
BPMRU proofs, proceed                Page 7 of 10
with manufacture.
Receive corrected
proofs from BPMRU.
Proceed for pupils'
books with
manufacture, for
teachers, books with
film to be given to
BPMRU for printing.
Receive teachers'
books film and
proceed with
manufacture.
Advance copies of
books to BPMRtT and
CDC.
Receive advance             Receive advance
copies                      copies
Deliver bulk to BPMIU
Receive bulk stock of
books. Warehouse
Book procurement and distribution
11.       This strategy is intended to get the project books into school
and to facilitate the continuation of distribution activities which include
the distribution of school materials other than books both of which are
procured by the BPMRU. A new warehouse will be constructed to contain both
primary and middle school books and materials and to allow medium-term book
storage. The BPMRU will be assisted by a warehouse manager in making the
warehouse operational and designing appropriate systems of control both
within the warehouse and from the warehouse to the regional education
centres and to the schools. An integrated system will be designed which
links the BPMNR, Ras0 and schools. The BPHRU will manage the distribution
of books and materials to the regional education officers in the case of
primary schools and directly to the middle schools. The BPMRU itself will
deliver direct to RECs and middle schools close at hand and will engage
private transporters to deliver to REOs 3 and 4 and other middle schools.
The prcject will provide the BPMRU with a van and a distribution budget
which would be spent on hiring transport to the REOs and some middle
schools aad buying fuel for dir:ct delivery to near-by middle schools.
Fuel to the IECs 1 and 2 would be provided by the MOE.



- 77 -                                Annex 3-6
Page 8 of 10
12.       The storerooms of the REOs will be improved to ensure that they
are weather and theft proof. Books and other school materials will be
stored in the short and medium term. for the REOs should contain a stock of
books and materials to provide for continuing supply to primary schools.
This will become very important under the new textbook policy (discussed
below) which introduces cost recovery for the users of books. For this to
work books must be in the schools. A decentralized distribution system is
surer of achieving this than a system based on Banjul. Thus the REO stores
will function as regional warehouses and not as temporary staging posts.
Relevant REO staff will receive training in books and materials
distribution, storage and stock control.
13.       Distribution from the REls to the primary schools will continue
as now, with the REOs being responsible for getting books and materials to
the schools. Their distribution budget would be provided by the MOE.
14.       BPMRU will procure books and other school materials in
subsequent years. In order to gear the quantities ordered (and
distributed) more closely to needs, the PEOs in the REOs will ensure that
they receive stock returns from the primary schools in their region by mid-
July each year; stock returns from the middle schools will go directly to.
the BPMRU.  The PEOs will summarize the information on stock in primary  ;
schools and pass it, via the Director Schools, to the BPMRU by August eacb
year.  This information will facilitate medium-term procurement planning.'-
Medium-term procurement planning will call for projected needs for several
years to be accumulated so that unit costs may be less through economies of
scale (particularly important in The Gambia because of its small size). To
assist in the process, the Project will train a member of the BPMRU staff
in procurement.
15.       Monitoring of the success of dlstribution - books being
available in schools - should be the responsibility of the school
inspectorate, but it would be unrealistic at present to count on it.
Monitoring will therefore fall tipon the Director of Planning and needs to
be included in annual work plans.
Book policy and the maintenance of books in schools
16.       The education reform and the introduction of the new educational
structure, new syllabuses and books will be the occasion for instituting a
teztbook policy where users contribute to the cost of supplying books and
thereby help to provide funding to replace damaged and lost copies and
additional copLes for enrollment growth.
17.       In primary schools the MOE would announce one year in advance a
new textbook policy whereby new books being published especially for the
Reform would be available for pupils' use in schools on payment of a user
fee or rental. It would be stressed that paying the user fee would not
make the bcoks the property of the pupils and that not paying the rental
fee would disqualify pupils from using books in schools. The poorest
families would receive official dispensation from paying the fee up to a



- 78 -                                 Annex 3-6
Page 9 of 10
national total of 4 per cent. Head Teachers would be responsible for making
recommendations to the PEO about which pupils should be exempted from book
fees. The fees amount would be fixed for three years, corresponding to the
expected average life of a textbook, and would not exceed $3.5 equivalent.
The MOE would also stress that the user fee/rental was from the shared use
of books in schools up to grade 5 (pupils' consumable materials, such as
exercise books, will also be sold to pupils, who have received them free up
to the present).
18.       The MOE would be assisted in the development of detailed
procedures and guidelines for the establishment and operation of the new
textbook policy by a specialist in revolving funds/user contriuutions. The
principle of setting the user fee will not be full cost recovery in primary
schools, although if book reprinting/resupply costs can be kept to a
minimum, it may be possible in the future. The HOE will need to estimate
the gap between revenue from user contributions over three years and the
-ost of resupply after three years, and deposit the amount in the textbook
fund as Governments's contribution to textbooks resupply. (For an example,
see Attachment 2.) The Government would give an assurance that foreign
exchange requirements for resupplying the books would be met. There will
be a foreign exchange requirement whether books are imported into the
Gambia or whether paper, wire, thread, film, plates, ink, etc. and
machinery spare rarts are imported in order to print the books in the
Gambia.                                                                   -
19.       The MOE's intention is to decentralize the management of
education and it plans to appoint an accountant in each of the REOs in
September 1990. The accountants will have a role in the collection of the
rents from primary schools. This will be accomplished at the same time as
the accountants make their monthly visits to the schouis in their monthly
visits to the schools in their region to pay salaries to teachers. (At
present payment of salaries to teachers nationally is the responsibility of
the Accountant General in Banjul, whose department visits every school each
month.) Head Teachers would not be given the responsibility for accounting
for the rents collected.
20.       In the new middle schools a similar textbook policy will be
adopted, that is, books will be available for pupils' use in the middle
schools on payment of a user fee. The user fee will be related to the real
cost of supply of books and will aim for cost recovery over three years.
The user fee is likely to be in the region of $9 equivalent per annum
although the exact sum will be calculated when book costs are known and the
cost of supplying a set of six pupils' books to one pupil can be amortized
over three years. Collection of user fees would again be the
responsibility of t*e accountant in the REC.  Textbooks would also be
available in book stores for individual purchase by students.
21.       Once the accountant collects user fees, he will deposit them
into a special bank account whose conditions of use restrict it to the
resupply of pupilw books. The account would be used by the MOE's book
procurement section, currently the BPMRU. Use of the account would be
overseen by the MOE.



- 79 -
Annex 3-6
Page 10 of 10
22.       Teachers' books would be supplied free of charge to both primary
and middle schools with the MOE financing resupply from its budget. If the
average life of a teacher's book is four years. this would amount to an
average $28.000 per year.
23.       For the book fee schemes to work books-must be available in
schools to justify the imposition of the user fee and the number of
replacement copies supplied to a school because of loss or damage must be
kept to a minimom to keep the rental costs low.  Storage conditions in
schools are very important and the project would supply metal cupboards to
primary and middle schools for keeping books safely. In those primary
schools where there is no secure room in which to put the cupboard, lt
would be kept in the headteacher's house and the books would be carried to
the school each day (books are carried from teachers' homes to school and
back at present in schiols vithout storerooms.)
Implementation
24.       Attachment 1 shows the stages in the development of adaptedlneo-
books for each grade (1-9). These will be planned in detail by the BPHRU'
after the offers in the tender for books, adapted books and publishers"- :
servlces have been evaluated.



THE GAMBIA                                       Annex 3- 6
EDUCATION SECTOR REPORT                                     Attaclhment I
Appraisal
Book Development Timetable
_                  I   11 10   |   19| 1~~~~ 1       b2   1 11 19           1994    119 9S
Gradel                             Wrb an      t(CDC )
B . Preparation ot plot-test editbons (BPtIU)U O3 Z - fSpeclist
C -i Orientation of plot-test teachers (CDC)   readers
o) *Pot testtbg (tCDC)       CC)ea4
Grade 3  ~  ~    ~     E   rearton: o Mfoal oanst  sCo)CC
f . Pi*l          I (BIPJI\aIWI
Grade 4. ct z
arpWa454 lOc



- 81 -                      Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
SCHOOL BOOKS TO BE ACQUIRED
To harmonize with the introduction of the new middle schools and the
education reform, the following dates are the years when the sets of pupils
and teachers books for the core subjects (see below) and for each grade are
planned to be available (see chapter 6 for the detailed implementation
schedule).
PUBLICATION DATES
Grade          Year-Auaust
1                92
2                92
3                93
4                93
5                94
6                94
7                92
8                93
9                94
The following books will be published.  Those to be adapted from:
existing books are marked 'adg, those to be created from scratch are marked
new, and those to be purchased off the shelf are marked  pur.
TITLES, METHODS OF ACQUISTION AND QUANTITIES OF BOOKS:
UNIT COSTS, PAGES AND NWMBER OF COLORS
Nazimum       No           unit
Title               AM         Pages*    Colours*        Cost      Quality
English 1      P    Ad         48        2               1.0       Pupils'
T    a         96        1               3.0       books
Social St 1    P    new        16        2                .5       14,500
T              48        1               1.0        ( book
Mathe I        P    Ad         48        2               1.0       for
T              64         1              2.0        2 pupils)
Science I      P               16        2                .5       Teachers
T              24        1               1.0        1,000
Relig Ed. 1    T    NeW        96        1               1.0       copies
English 2      P    Ad         64        2               1.20      Pupils
T    a         96        1               3.0       books
Social St 2    P    New         2        2                .8       12,000
T              48        I               1.0        (1 book
Maths 2        P    Ad         64        2               1.20      for
T    a         s0         1              2.5        2 pupils)



- 82 -
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Science 2       P    *          16         2                 .5       Teachers
T               40         1               1.5        1.000
Relig Ed. 2    T    New         96         1               1.0        copies
English 7       P    ad   Pupils    1            4.0       Pupils
a    Max -      1         5.0        books
Social St 7    P    a    192 pp    1            4.0        5,000
T    *    Teachers  1           5.0        Teachers
Maths 7         P    *    -128 pp  1             4.0        600
T       -            1          5.0        copies
Science 7       P    *                1         4.0
T                    1          5.0
Agriculture 7  P    pur               4          6.0
T    *               1          5.0
Relig Ed. 7    P    *                 1          4.0
T    new             1          1.0
English 8       P    ad   Pupils    1            4.0       Pupils
T    *    Max -      1          5.0        books
Social St 8    P    a    192 pp    1            4.0        5000
T    a    Teachers  1           5.0        Teachers           b
Maths 8         P          -128 pp  1            4.0        600
T    '               1          5.0        copies
Science 8       P                     1          4.0
T    *               1          5.0
Agriculture 8  P    pur               4          6.0
T    *               1          5.0
aelig. Ed 8    P    *                 1         1.0
T    new             1          1.0
English 9       P    ad   Pupils    1            4.0       Pupils
T    '    Max -      1          5.0        books
Social St 9    P    *    192 pp    1            4.0        5000
T    a    Teachers  1           5.0        Teachers
Maths 9         P    *    -128 pp  1             4.0       600
T                               5 1  5.0   copies
Science 9       P    -                1          4.0
T    *               1          5.0
Agriculture 9  P    pur               4          6.0
T    *               1          5.0
Relig Ed 9      P    *                1          4.0
T    new             1          1.0



- 83 -                               Annex 3-7
Page 1 of 5
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
IN-SERVICE AND PRE-SERVICE TRAINING OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
Cve-view
1.             The Gambia education system is characterized by an
unusually high proportion of unqualified teachers. Between 1977 and 1987
there was accelerated expansion in enrolment particularly at the primary
and secondary technical school levels, which however has not been
accompanied by the corresponding increase in the supply of qualified
teachers and other facilities. In 1988/89 there were 2420 Grade 1 - 6
teachers of whom 1300 were unqualified (54 per cent). For enrolment rates
to increase and to improve the quality of teaching, lt will be necessary to
upgrade as many teachers in as short a time as possible, while at the same
time increasing the number of qualified teachers trained through the pre-
service program run by the Gambia Colleg6. To achieve this, the content
and duration of the in-service training programs would be designed to
produce competent teachers quickly and within existing budgetary
constraints, and enrollment on the pre-service course would be gradually
increased from 144 in 1988/89 to 240 in 1994195 without significant b
increases in staff or physical facilities. The education policy confirms,
the role of Gambia College vis-a-vis taacher training, and it would''no-
also be responsible for in-service teacher training. The College embarked -
on a pilot program of in-service training starting in July 1989 in
preparation for the full-scale operation to be supported by the project.
The Proposed Proiect Component
2.        The main elements of the teacher training component envision:
(a)  increased pre-service training for the Primary Teacher's
Certificate (P.T.C.) and Higher Teacher's Certificate (H.T.C.)
Programs, including the preparation of teachers for double-
shift, multi-grade, and multi-subject teaching;
(b) increased in-service training for unqualified teachers (T.C. and
q.T.C.) s
tc) revision of curricula for all programs;
(d) strengthening of Gambia College including training of
professional and support staff, improvement of physical
facilities, and provision of resources, equipment and technical
assistance; and
(e) increased cost effectiveness and reduced unit costs for the
College by; Ci) operating with a higher staff/student ratio
(from ls8 to 1:20), (ii) phasing out specialist Noue Economics
and Koranic teachers and retraining those meeting the entry



- 84 -                            ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 5
requirements of the College as classroom teachers; and (iii)
enabling the School of Education of the Gambia College to
function as a semi-autonomous institution wlth its own budget
and professional mission.
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Pre-Service Teacher Education
3.             The School of Education of the Gambia College which
presently provides only pre-service teacher training will be strengthened
to expand enrollment on this course, and to take responsibility for the in-
service training course. The proposed level of output of qualified
teachers through the pre-service progreme would man that the College will
have to at least double its present enrollmnt. The pre-service training
would be expanded as follows:
Pre-Service Primary Teacher's Certificate
Year           Intake          output
1988189                        43
1989/90        100             44
1990191        100             90
1991/92        100             100    TOTAL OUTPUTs 717
1992/93        100             100
1993/94        120             100
1994/95        120             120
1995/96        120             120
4.        The curriculum, which reflects Government proposals for a broad
based education at the primary level, will necessitate that the subjects be
divided into core subiects which will include Eniglish, Mathematics,
Educational Studies, Combined Science and Social Studies (including
population and family life education) and optional areas which would
include Rome Economics, Arts and Crafts, Religious Knowledge (I.RK. or
BK), Local Languages (Pular, Maandinka, Wollof) Music, &ad Phyaical and
Health Education.
S.        In addition to the core subjects, trainees will be required to
choose two optional subjects of which one must be a local language.  h'e
selection of one local language is required because if the local lanL4ages
are left as just another option not enough teachers might be produced to
teach these languages.
In-Service Teacher Education
6.        A modular approach would be adopted for in-service training
whilch would be decentralized into the other regions with other educational
resource persounel assisting Gambia College in the training. Although the
policy stretches over a fifteen year period, traiuing prograimes for the
necessary teaching force must reach their peak levels about mid-term of
implementation for optimum benefits to be derived. With the present parity



- 85-                                ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 5
between the conditions of service of teachers and civil servants the
attrition rate is expected to be minimal.
7.        The policy for upgrading serving teachers would be to provide a
two phase training program. The first phase would provide unqualified
teachers with minimum required competency in teaching skills and they would
be certified at a lower level than qualified teachers, while the second
phase would focus on full qualifications and salary parity with serving
qualified teachers. The first phase would concentrate on a syllabus-based
approach with emphasis on teaching methods and delivery of the syllabi
(rather than on enrichment). The structure of the course, to be delivered
in a 14 month period. would be: (a) 20 weeks of residential courses at
Gambia college and Regional Educational Centers to be conducted in two
consecutive summr sessions and during spring breaks; (b) 20 weekend
sessions to be held during the academic year between the residential summer
courses; and (c) a self-study program for use by participants at home. All
unqualified teachers would pass through this stage, thus having the effect
of upgrading basic classroom skills and efficiency oC curriculum delivery
for all unqualified teachers in as short a time as possible. Teachers who
successfully complete this course would receive the Basic Teaching
Certificate and would be promoted from salary grade 1 to grade 3 on the
civil service scale.  Promoting these teachers to grade 3 instead of grade
6, which is currently the practice, would remove an anomaly which permitt
appointing in-service graduates with lower levels of qualitications..on:tA
same scale as pre-service graduates with higher levels of qualifications.-.
It would have the added benefit of reducing the costs of qualified
teachers. A second phase currently under consideration, would be a one-
year in-service upgrading progranme for award of the Teachers Certificate
and promotion to grade 6 in the civil service salary scale. The entry
requirements for phase 1 is a minimum of four B0o level passes and at least
two years service as an unqualified teacher.    For phase 2 possession of
the Basic Teacher's Certificate would be the admession requirement.
Implementation of phase 2 will start after all unqualified teachers have
successfully completed phase 1 of the in-service training program.
Appendix 1 illustrates the mode of training for the In-service program.
8.        The ezpected intake into the in-service programme is as follows:
Year           Intake          Output
1989/90        200             -
1990191        200             200
1991/92        200             200             TOTAL OUTPUT:  1200
1992/93        200             200
1993194        200             200
1994/95        200             200
1995/96        200             20C
9.        The details of study and modes of Attendance are as follows:
(a) 20 weeks of residential attendance for phase 1 and 10 weeks for
phase 2;
(b) Additionally those registered with the scheme must produce a



- 86 -                           ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 5
project work for both phases.
(c) Leamning packages for (20 modules) phase 1 and (10 modules)
phase 2 vill be distributed to all registered candidates for
hame study.
(d) 20 weekend courses will be held at the Regional Education
Centers and at Jenoi.
(e) Correspondence courses wvil be distributed by competent resource
personnel wSth proper training during weekend lectures.
(f) Materials vili be developed and moderated by Gambia College and
the Curriculum Development Center (CDC).
(g) Teaching practice will be supervised and assessed. Supervision
1Ln situ' will be an important aspect of teaching practice. The
Gambla College in collaboration with other experts will
carefully monitor the progress of candidates. While on the
initial 12 weeks residential course, micro-teaching methods will
be applied vith the express purpose of eliminating any bad
teaching methods trainee teachers might have acquired:
D
(h) Venue: While the proposal for decentralization and training -vi
situ* is being reviewed and the logistics being worked out,-fora
the initial intake, Gambia College, (Brikama Campus) will          -
temporarily be the venue for the first 12 weeks training. The
centers ldentified for use are the Regional Education Centers -
Brikama, Kanifing, Kerewan and Basse - in addition to the
College's own facilities at Brikama and Jenoi. These centers
will also be used during the weekend courses. The reason for
holding part of the in-service training at these centers is to
ease the burden of the Brikama Campus. An added advantage is
that trainee teachers will be in an environment which they are
already familiar with and in which they will do their teaching
practice. ThLs approach will be more efficient especially in
view of the weekend courses, as only a few tutors need to be
moved to these centers instead of having to make arrangements
for a much larger number of students.
ti) There need to be at least six instructional staff to sern ice the
provincial centers, who will travel between the various centers
in the provinces. In all centers, where the permanent College
staff is unable to cope with the work load additional staff will
be recruited from experienced personnel in the education sector.
For the efficient running of these centers, transportation will
be absolutely necessary.
Insuts
10.       This section deals wLth input in terms of staff, materials and
costs. The Government accepts a gradual increase in recurrent expenditure



- 87 -                           AKN    3-7
Page 5 of 5
to cover salaries of newly trained teachers.  Government has also agreed to
fund the initial period of one year of the in-service, training period
(1989/90 academic year) before project funds become available.
11.       For the successful implementation of the proposed training
programs, the use of Regional Education Centers is necessary and priority
should be given to the furuishing and rehabilitation of these centers. The
College facilities at present are supporting the pre-service training.
With the envisaged increase in the enrollment of pre-service teachers, the
facilities would need to be augmented. The most imediate is the
conversion of the assembly hall at the Brikama Campus into a multi-purpose
hall which could be used for large group lectures of up to about 250
students.
12.       The present College staff will provide most of the professional
services. Additional expertise if required will be recruited from the
education sector personnel (e.g. some experienced Head Teachers for
teaching practice observation together with Inspectors of Schools). With
the proposed rates of enrollment, by the 1990/91 academic year, 400
candidates would have been registered for the course. Working on a
student/tutor ratio of 30 to 1, at least fourteen tutors will be required.
Costing is based on fifteen tutors, allowing for at least one standby, plus
two programme coordinators (one an assistant). The job description for An-
service tutors is in Attachment 2.
13.       Summary of cost estimates is provided in Attachment 3



Annex 3-7
Attachment I
_ , Al
NM0DS cir mmur                     CWiIFICTTI                  DiXALU Or           TEAHING
LWSL                       SUDY                 PRACTICE
. . . . . X~~~~~~~~~~~UDULE
Two year            2D week. resi4ential
prodraMe            20 week-end amiion at               tsaic                      30 modules core      2 Micro-tuachins  OD
(Grade 3            Re&ioma aleucatioa Contres          t.achers                                         Utosionu           I
Certificate                20 moduleo
10 leesons by correspondence                                  option4l              Supervised TeacIhing
Ptactice
10 modules howe
studies             2 formal
aL£es  eto in
ui tu
(oe year            10 weeks residential                leacberO                   20 modulea ccre      Supurvisaed
Certificate                                             Certificate                                     Teaching Practice
ce-pldtiow          10 wveian-d sssioms at                                         10 modules
Regional Educ-tion                                        optional             5 final i seauanst
(Grade 6)              Centreas
10 modulea home
10 lessons by corruspondence                                  studies
. 9f* C* .



- 89 -
Annex 3-7
Attachment 2
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR IN-SERVICZ TUTORS
Tutors appointed to participate in the in-Service Programme are
expected to carry out the following functionst
(a) Teach their specialist subjects during the in-college summer
courses.
(b) Assess course work as well as practical teaching.
(G)  Participate in the further development of the courses.
(d) Conduct weekly workshops and clinics for trainees at the
Regional Education Centers.
(e) Supervise the correspondence course and also assist in the
production of new instructional materials.
(f) Participate in staff training workshops and seminars.



- 90 -                          Annex 3-7
Attachment 3
Page i of 2
COST ESTIMATES
A. TRAINING COSTS
1..  Tutorial
Honoraria for 15 tutors e D500 per week             D105,O0O.00
Teaching practice observation -
D20 per assessment X 7 assessments X
200 students                                          28,000.00
Administration of correspondence course;
25 students/tutor i.e. 16 tutors e D500                8,000.00
Per die'A for week-end courses 16 tutors
e D50 per night for 30 week-end sessions              24,000.00
Honorarium for Progrumme Coordinator                  12,000.00
Honorarium for Assistant Programme Coordinator        10,000.00
ANNUAL TOTAL   D187,000.00
Total cost for 5 years                              D935,000.0O .
2. In-Service cost (students)
The accommodation facilities at the Brikama Campus of the Gambia
College will not be adequate enough/provide residence for all
the students who will need to be trained at this center. As
such some students will have to commute. It is proposed that a
flat allowance be paid to each trainee for lunch and
transportation - D20 and D10 respectively - out. Those students
who wish to be residential, and could be accommodated, will pay
a fee for room. The College will operate a canteen on a self
financing basis from which trainees could buy their meals.
Transportation for 400 trainees e DIO per day for 14 weeks
(of 5 days)                                         D280,000.00
Meals for 400 trainees e D20.00 per day for 14 weeks
(of 5 days)                                          560,000.00
ANNUAL TOTAL   D840,000.00
Total cost for 5 years                 D4,200,000.00
3.   Trainina of trainers workshops.  It is proposed that two such
workshops be held over the project period to adequately prepare
the-tutorial staff to implement the programme.



-91 -                              Annex 3-7
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
16 tutors (for 3 days) e D600 flat x 2 sessions   D 19,200.00
TOTAL TRAINING COSTS (1+2+3)                 D5,154.200.00
B. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES:
i. Stationery (for 5 year period) including:             D150,000.00
2000 packets duplicating paper I D54
100  packets copier paper e D57
500 packets typing paper * D35
100 packets carbon paper * D40
500 boxes chalk paper I D50
200 boxes pen I D60
3500 envelopes I D2
1000 writing pads I D13
2.  Equipment                                             D 700,000.00
5 duplicating machines I D12,SOO
5  photocopiers *D27,600
5  electric typewriters IDll,000
2  manual tpewriters I D6,000
2  episcopes I DlQ,000
2 micro-computers I D15,000
10 radio cassette recorders I D2,000
2 V.C.Ps Q D4.500
5 O.H.Ps e D6,500
5 projector screens I D1,800
50 sets O.H.P. pens (Assorted) at DSO per set
100 flip charts stand I D180
S film strip/slide projectors I D3,600
S slide magazines (rotary) I D216
5  scanning machines I D15,000
10 filing cabinets I D3,500
5 portable '5KVA' generators I D8,000
3.  Vehicles                                   D600,000.00
4.  Library Resources                          D150,000.00
TOTAL COST FOR EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES          D1.600,000.00
5.  Physical Facilities                        D175,000.00



- 92 -                                  ANNEX 3-8
!Sa      smet    'l'l'D*ii
V
1S 1            *- ! o i       
I E  l   0  " 0  | e   X  j  @  I @  | |  ff   jI
hn~~~
_                §  a  1-     _  e  ^    b              I~5- 
W!
SWt~~~~~~~~S
II                     SEIi 'g'                5             i
S                       dieiI:@t                   
4             -6 I    lgi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i
Ml _
gi''i           ji   !f



- 93 -
AnnX 3-9
Page 1 of 9
TRE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRUAINING SYSTEM
Composition and Needs of the Workforce
1.        The Gambian workforce, representing ehout 133  of the economically
active population, encompasses roughly 47,000 workerg' engaged in furmal and
informal sector occupations. 1/ This workforce is divided into roughly
32,000 workers (682) employed in the formal sector, and 15,000 workers
(32Z) employed in the informal sector. Of the workers engaged in the
formal sector, roughly 20,400 (64Z) are employed in Government ministries
and public enterprises, while the remaining 11,600 (362) are employed in
private establishments. These figures are Indicative of the Government's |
position as the major employer in the economy both in terms of numbers of :
workers and value of wages paid.  Meanwhile in the private sector, most
enterprises are focussed in the trading and tourist industries which are
frequently managed by foreign nationals. The informal sector consists
mostly of self-employed persons, family members, and apprentices working in
more than 9,000 micro-enterprises which operate a low level of economic
activity. 21
2.        Against this backdrop of labor market conditions, other factors
exist that affect manpower development and employment in varying degrees.
These include 
a.        ality of existing workforce.  There are great variations in
terms of occupational capability within the existing workforce.
At the lower occupational levels, older workers frequently have
I/Although complete data is not available on the composition of the
workforce, general information has been obtained on the formal and informal
sectors. For the purposes of this report, the formal sector encompasses
enterprises with five or more employees while the informal sector
encompasses mostly family operated trading enterprises and self-employed
artisaas working with smll numbers of apprentices. Direct farming
occupations are excluded from these categories although many of the small
enterprises noted above serve the rural agricultural areas of the country.
2/Although precise data does not exist, it is accepted knowledge that many
of the trading enterprises are owned and operated by Senegalese and
Mauritanian nationals.



- 94 -
Annex 3-9
Page 2 of 9
little formal education, can often be functionally illiterate,
can only absorb limited amounts of job training, yet have some
degree of practical capability due to their long years of
service. At the upper occupational levels, younger educated
workers are gradually filling managerial positions for which they
have a good degree of theoretical background, but for which they
lack sufficient experience. Although there are ezceptions
(notably in the tourist industry), in general, the workforce is
inefficient and plagued with low levels of productivity due to
poor management and supervision, lack of operating funds, lack of
equipment and materials, and other constraints.
b.   Tmbalances in vorkforce distribution.  Compounding the problems
of filling the labor market with sufficient numbers of qualified
workers at all levels, is the distorted distribution of workers
within the upper, middle, and lower occupational categories. In
general, there are serious shortages of qualified senior
managers, accountants and engineers in addition to serious
shortages of qualified mid-level managers, office worker3 and   ;
technicians. By contrast, the labor market is saturated with.:
large numbers of unskilled and unqualified workers who are          -
incapable of being productive without proper supervision from
above. 3/
C.   k4nyover plruning. Manpower planning at the national level is
carried out in varying degrees between the Government,
employers,labor unions, the education sector, and the workforce.
The process is however, faced with problems of incomplete
manpower information, lack of accurate data on the economy, poor
internal communication, and general inability to translate
information into a coherent strategy to meet both short and long
term labor market needs. Meanwhile, some efforts have been made
recently to improve the placement of vocational school graduates
through an Employment Exchmage Service run by the Ministry of
Health, Labor and Social Welfare, while there is continuing
3/Although MEPID figures for 1988 indicate roughly 372 of employed workers
are in unskilled job categories, there is no supporting information
regarding the calibre of workers employed in the skilled categories, nor
does this cover workers in the informal sector. Various surveys of
employers and donor experience in the public sector indicates that many of
those employed in the skilled categories are in fact, unskilled workers who
have been promoted to higher positions due to their longevity with the
employer and the unavailability of better qualified workers.



- 95 -
AnneX 3-9
Page 3 of 9
effort on the part of the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Industrial Development (MEPID) to strengthen its occupational
data gathering and analysis capabilities.
Vocational Education and Training
3.        As part of its past strategy to improve vocational education and
training (VET), the Government established the National Vocational Training
Board (NVTB) under the National Vocational Act of 1979. The primary
mandate of NVTB was to formulate policies, provide guidelines, and
coordinate training activities (both public and privately funded) on a
national basis. The Bc,rd is composed of representatives of Government,
4/ the business comunmity, and the labor unions and oversees lts
executive branch, -he National Vocational Training Directorate (NVTD). The
NVTD administers iiur departments cesponsible for (i) job classification
and trade testing, (ii) cur-. _m development, (iii) in-plant training,
and (iv) women, youth, aw4 vocational rehabilitation. At present, the NVTB*
program encompasses approximately 1000 students with an average annual    ;
output of 110 graduates in industrial crafts, 70 graduates in co=-ercial- ?
trades, 30 graduates in home economics, and 40 graduates in hotel
management and catering, for a total of 250 per year.  These program are
implemented by the following institutLons:
a.   The Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI). GTTI is the only
autonomous Government training institution with its own Act of
Establishment (1980) and separate Governing Board. It offers Ci)
intermediate and advanced craft courses leading to local certificates
and London City and Guilde certificates in mechanical, electrical, and
civil engineering crafts, (Li) commercial courses leading to
certificates in secretarial practice, accounting, and bookkeeping,
(iii) a variety of part-time in-service courses sponsored by
employers, and (iv) technical teacher training courses for faculties
of other training institutions. With an average annual enrollment of
500 students (of vhich about 701 are part-time in-service trainees),
GTTI has gained a reputation as a well managed institution and has
little trouble in finding employment opportunities for most of its
graduates. This is substantiated by the fact that over 1,000
candidates applied for 120 student places available In the full time
program for the 1988-89 school year and is another indication of
growing interest in vocational education (versus academic studies) on
the part of students and their parents.   With an average annual cost
4/These include the Chairman (appointed by the President), and one
representative each from the ministries of Labor, Education, Finance,
Agriculture, Works and Communications, MEPID, selected public institutions,
and the vocational training schools.



- 96 -
Annez 3-9
Page 4 of 9
of 2500 dalasis per trainee and a student/teacher ratio of roughly
14:l, GTTI's unit costs are within acceptable norms
b.   The National Vocational Training Center (NVTC).  NVTC was established
in the early 1960's and is the oldest vocational training institution
in the country. It is administered by the Kinistry of Education (MOE)
and conducts two and three year program in welding, general
mechanics, *automotive mechanics, building construction, and carpentry
leading to local certificates. Although maximum capacity is 155
students, the school has been averaging about 120 students annually
during the past several years vith an intake between 40 to 60
applicants each year. In general, employers perceive the quality of
training at NVTC to be low as evidenced by the low job placement rate
(about 45Z) achieved by NVTC graduates during the past several years.
In large part, this is due to the poor condition of equipment and
facilities, the lack of properly qualified instructors, and the
generally low entry level of the students. As shown in Attachment 2,
with an average annual cost per student of S,000 dalasis and a
student/teacher ratio of 7:1, overall costs of education are double: t
that of GTTI which has been producing demonstrably better results.
c.   The Rural Vocational Trainins Program.  The NVTC is also responsible
for an EEC funded project headquartered at the Rural Vocational
Training Center in Mansakonko which was intended to oversee a network
of 22 village training workshops that were to have been constructed by
local village labor. Although eight training workshops have been
under construction since 1979, they are only partially completed as of
this date, while no work has been started on the others. So far,
about 60 village instructors have been trained in artisanal skills
(sving, batik, tie dye, metalworking, and carpentry) at Iansakonko,
but there is no evidence that they have been effectively employed
either at Mansakcako or at the other eight training workshops due to
poor management and lack of materials and equipment.
d. Non-Government Schools. In addition to the vocational programs run by
the NVTC, several other vocational schools are operated by NGO's
supported by bi-lateral donor and private organizations as follows:
Mi) Presentation Girl's Vocational School. This school accepts
primary school leavers and graduates from secondary technical
schools for enrollment in two-year commercial and home economics
program that are adjusted to the levels of the students. Recent
aunual intakes have averaged about 100 with a total enrollment of
about 180 students.
(Li) SOS Training and Production Center. Funded and operated
through Norwegian aid, the SOS Center provides three year



- 97 -
Annex 3-9
Page 5 of 9
training programs in carpentry, furniture production,
metalworking, plumbing, and refrigerationiair conditioning.
Roughly 65 applicants are selected from among primary school
leavers every three years. With present enrollment at 50
students, the school is noted for high quality training and a
good job placement record with many graduates entering into their
own small businesses. The sale of products produced at the
'enter is used to defray local operating costs.
(iii)  Anglican Vocational Training Center.  Functioning as a
secondary technical school, the Center accepts primary school
leavers into a four year general program covering pre-vocational
subjects in agriculture, home economics, masonry, carpentry and
metalwork. Annual intake is about 100 with an average overall
enrollment of 350.
(iv) The Hotel Training School. With an annual enrollment of
roughly 80 students, the school accepts applicants with 4th year ,
secondary school certificates and above. Courses are cenducted
in restaurant and bar service, cooking, customer services, and-
housekeeping.  The school has a high job placement record within  -
the hotel industry.
(v) Other EGO Schools. Collectively enrolling about 1,200
students in a variety of technical, commercial, and agricultural
programs. other NGO schools are operated by the YMCA, Action Aid.
CARITAS, the Girl Guides Vocational Center, the Canadian
University Services Overseas (CUSO), and the Chamen Self-
Development Training Center.
With the exception of GTTI which provides extenslve in-service training for
workers of various Government institutions, the above schools and training
centers provide varying degrees of pre-job instructiorn primarily for
students who were not high achievers iu academic studies. 5/ While the
quality of training in these schools varies, some (such as GTTI and SOS)
are able to produce qualified job entrants who are actively sought by
employers.
4.        In addition to the pre-employment training conducted by the
various Government and NGO schools, an extensive amount of in-service and
on-job trainiLg (OJT) is carried out by the larger employers including the
5/This trend is changing as parents and students see the advantages of
occupational trainLng in the present climate of reduced employment
opportunities in Government. and Increased employer interest in vocational
graduates.
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 98 -                             Annex 3-9
Page 6 of 9
Ministry of Works and Communication (MWC), the Gambia Utility Corporation
(GUC). the Gambia Public Transport Company (GPTC), the Gambia Port
Authority (GPA), the Gambia Telecommunications Authority (GAMTEL). and the
hotel industry. 'hile MWC, GPTC, GPA, and GAMTEL have their own in-house
training centers they, along with other employers, make extensive use of
GTTI and the Management Development Tnstitute (MDI) to provide instruction
in released time courses often designed specifically for the employera
needs. The in-service training programs cover a wide variety of subjects
ranging from functional literacy courses for unskilled and semi-skilled
workers to job skills upgrading for artisans, technicians, office workers,
and junior managers. Management training is also provided for mid-level
and senior managers both in-country and overseas. In many of the above
training activities, the Goverasent Ministries and parastatals are
supported by IDA credits and bi-lateral loans and grants. 61
Priority Issues in Vocational Education and Training
S.        Against the background of workforce composition, labor market    -
needs, and the present status of the VET system, several priority issuesX
have been identified by the Government as being essential to improving the:
quality of training and the provision of competent workers to employers in
the public and private sectors. These include the following:
a.   Relevance of the Content of VET.  Interviews with employers and
vocational school graduate* indicates the need for improvement in
the occupational content of courses conducted under the NVTC
tmbrella. The most serious problems in this regard include (i)
the lack of practical skill development, (ii) the lack of
standardization within job training categories, (iii) the absence
of specialized courses to meet specific employer needs, and (iv)
the lack of appropriate courses to meet the needs of the informal
sector.
b.   Problems vith the Delivery of VET. An evaluation of existing
conditions within the VET system has shown that there are several
shortcomings which constrain the effective implementation of
occupational training activities. These include: (i) below
standard facilities; (ii) shortages of training equipment and
materials; and (iii) underqualified instructors.
6/Present IDA credits include training under the Second Highway Maintenance
Project, the Banjul Port Project, the Urban Management and Development
Project, and the Water/Electricity Project. The British Council is also
actively involved in providing traininggrants to senior level uuployees in
all basic job categories.



-99 -
Annex 3-9
Page 7 of 9
c.   Lack of Coordination Between the VET System and the Labor Market.
Limited cuntact between VET staff and employers has prevented the
VET system from responding effectively to labor market needs. 7/
As a result, students completing their vocational education are
not always considered acceptable by prospective employers in
terms of job entry capability. This problem is compounded by
prevailing attitudes among graduates that their possession of
certificates (ie; City and Guilds, 0 levels, etc.) entitles them
to higher status and that they should not have to 'start at the
bottom' to learn the practical aspects of their profession.
In addition to the above factors, it is evident that the Government needs
to develop better methods for monitoring labor market conditions so that it
can respond more effectively to the occupational training needs of all
employers and self-employed within the economy. While there are many
disparities and distortions between the supply of, and demand for. skilled
workers within the labor market, it is evident that much improvement in the
overall capability of the national workforce is still required before the X
country's infrastructure can be operated and maintained properly, and   -
sufficient economic productivity can be achieved.
Government's VET Strategy and Investment Program
6.        In an effort to improve the effectiveness of the VET system and
its ability to respond to labor market needs, the Government is considering
a re-organization of the system in combination with an investment program
designed to address the issues noted in the preceding paragraph. In this
regard, and in line with assurances to be obtained at negotiations, the
Government intends to establish a National Council for Technical Education
and Vocational Training (NCTEVT) as a statutory body responsible to the
Ministry of Education, Youth, Spvrts and Culture (MEYSC) to supersede the
existing NVTB. 8I The Council will include a representative cross-section
of the concerned Ministries, employers antd vorkers organizations whose
mandate will be to review, modify. and approve national policies on VET and
to ensure that they are properly implemented by the various schools and
training centers. The existing NVTD will also be restructured to meet the
administrative requirements of NCTEVT and will serve as the Secretariat of
the Council. It will be necessary for the Government to officially
establish NCTEVT prior to implementation of the investment program as
defined in the succeeding paragraphs.
7/This does not apply to in-service training conducted by GTTI, MDI, and
the in-house training in the Ministries and parastatals.
8/As stated in its draft Education Policy Paper 1988-2003.



- 100 -
Annex 3-9
Page 8 of 9
7.        The Government proposes te strengthen VZ? and has prepared an
investment program within the framework of the proposed Education Sector
Credit to address the most Important priority issues. Specifically the
Project wouldt
a.   Restructure GTTI and NVTC.  tecr4niting the partial duplication
of effort under the present arrangement, and the operational
weaknesses of NVTC, lt Le proposed to merge NVTC with GTTI. NVTC
will henceforth be known as the Banjul Skill Center (BSC) and
vill be administered by GTTI under the policy umbrella of the
NCTEVT. This restructuring is presently underway and a joint
GTTSIBSC 9/budget has already been prepared for the 1989/90
school year.
b.   Improvint the Content of VET.  Based upon an evaluation of
present course content and relevance to labor market needs. the
Goverrment proposes to implement curriculum changes so as to put
more emphasis upon practice versus theory, occupational             ;
competency, skill standardization, and small business management.
Achieving these objectives will require in-house curriculum
development actions to be taken by GTTI staff with the assistance
of consultants. GTI staff will be alded in this endeavor
through study tours and the resulting benefits of reviewing
policies and actions taken by other Governments to deal with
similar issues.
C.   Improving VET Facilities.  In order to enhance the delivery of
VET courses and programs, the Government proposes to renovate and
expand as necessary the building facilities at GTTI in KAnifing
and the BSC in Banjul. In parallel with the renovation and
ezpansion works, the procurement of training an4 ancillary
equipmnt and materials will be required to .:'se training
implementation standards. As shonm in the Implementation
Schedule (Attachment 3), these actions will specifically entail:
Ci the construction of a new library, audio-visual and
documentation center at GTTI to be furnished, equipped, and
supplied accordingly;
(ii) !he conversion of the existing GTTI library into additional
faculty offices;
9/Future reference to GTTI will include BSC as well.



- 101 -
Annes 3-9
Page 9 of 9
(iii) the construction of a new laboratory/workshop building at
GTT for civil works and mechanical trades training to be
furnished, equipped and supplied accordingly,
(iv) the construction of a teaching resource center at GTTI for
use by faculty and technical teaching students to be furnished,
equipped and supplied accordingly, and
(v) the repair and rehabilitation of classrooms, workshops,
stores and offices at BSC including the repair and replacement of
furniture and equipment as needed.
d.   Imvrovint VET Faculty.  In conjunction with the above activities,
and in response to planned changes and modifications of the VET
curriculum, various actions will be taken to improve the
qualifications and capabilities of the GTTI faculty. These
actions will primarily encompass staff training and fellowships.
To accomplish this, experts will be employed under the project tq
assist and train faculty in job classification and trade        -
standards, apprenticeship training, small enterprise management,.
and equipment planning.  In addition. training fellowships will
be provided in marine mechanics, refrigeration and air
conditioning, production management, and trade testing.



TNE 6sIA
EEAIOU SECTOR MECT
tabl IL STEIBEN  SKILL Wt AIUIS
bMiled Cost table
bantat,                      uDse costs h I
nit       9om 0/11       929   9394 9495 /6 %9M  total Cost    m   nm 9    92M  93n4 94/9i    16        Tdt1
cvc=wmm==   V= UC=       ug23gUuZ=           2U  as--=   ==~ uU3  2--cz M=         =-
I. IzMUeu CUMi
1. STREIIBIIb uSIA TEaI-IICIA lIlUTMINIM  INMTIU
CIVIL INM                                                             -     -    -       -     -     -    -               - 9.19   6                            309.5
A,ITECIURII  / EN1EERIN I  FEES                                     -    -      -    -      -    -    -    -              -  9.9  14.9       -     -    -    -  4.B
EIUIPIEIIT                                                          -     -    -      -    -      -     -    -            -     -  49.9      -    -    -    - 48.8
FtINITK                                                                      -     -    -    -               ---                      . -          -     -    - 22.8
St6-Total STIIENMINS WDI9 TEtIIUL 11T1RKI1I  IIISTIME                                                                        - 102.8909.1       -     -    -    - 15.9
2. STRESTMINIG, DNAL SKILL TRIININB CENTRE
CIVIL URIS                                                          -     -     -     -     -     -    -    -             - 20.5  92.0       -     -    -    - l02E4
E0UIPIET                                                            -    -     -      -    -      -    -    -             -      - 67.1      -    -    -    - 67.1
FIITItE                                                                                     -  -    -    -  -                   -   1.6      -    -    -    -   1.6
REFERENCE BUIS                                                      -     -     -    -    -       -    -    -              -   4.9     -     -    -    -    -  4.9
CIENICAL MSSISINICE                              SAFF MONM         -    S      S     5     -    -    -    1S 99.4         - 60.0  60.0  60.0    -    -    -190D,
FELL5flIPSfflOTE4ID IT                           STN  IIOIIIH      -    to   10   10       -    -    -    30 20.5         - 250  23.0  23.0        -    -    -  75.0
SuTtu STREETINEINS SANM  SKILL TRAINING CENtRE                                                                               -110.4 233.6  95.0       -    -    - 431.0
Total INJESTIIEIIT COSTS                                                                                                        - 213.1 53.7  95.0      -    -    - 936.9
t=8s:== =-e= = = CZ===
Total                                                                                                                             - 213.1 538.7  859.0         _    -
ril 24n 1990  14:39



omuilo on cis MaEI
fable 04 l6i2222ImLS UWt01lfuI
Mallt EnUt 1*3.
Oumtmtv                                              bs. Costs in 4
--------------------------------------------  unit  -------------------------------------------------
uni  "U1nit-                                                                     95
atrn      som93 91/92 9/93 93n4 94t95 95/96 96/97 totel  Cost 90/91 91192 92193 93/94 94n5 95/96 96.97 toul
I. NSoIaIT CtSis
a. REOUIzATiU An  STRENI1TNINS OF Off
l. coni-                                                                         -                 -           -            -  6.0   9.0      -     -     -      -    15.0
2. Ft3IM-                                                                        -     --                -                  -   3.0   4.5     -     -      -     -    7.6
3. VEHICLES                                                                                                    -         20.0     -     -0.0
4. TECDICK *SSISTMtCC
CDWCATION FLl                                  STAFF 1122       18    1?2     6     -     -                 6 -    36  9.4  2160 144.0  7.0 -o0
S%b-lttl IECHIC. USSI1TOE                                                                                               216.0 144.0  72.0            -     -         432.0
5. r(LLOMIPS                                      STAFFl22           -    9     9      9     9     -          36  20.5      - 22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5      -      -    90.0
6. P12II II S1        US                                            -     - -0131                              -            -     -     -    - 50.0 100.0 100.0  250.0
Sub-lotal IElUlWttIO I AD SllE1        IN  OF ME                                                                          2%.0 375.5 200.0  22.5  72.5 100.0 100.0  814.6
P. SllEliltS lEtEI 2 l2 1TIO  CWM ltTlS                                                                                                                                                                                     -
1. CIVIL ga5                                                                                                   --   3.0                 -     -     -    -      -     3.0
2. EIUIPIIEIIT-                                                                                                                19.7                                   19.7
3. FlOUIEt*                                                                               - --o.                                                                       6.8
4. OgNCIOL  to                                                                                                          105.0  -                                     105.0
S. tIlEN  ASSISTNC
O JT F      t I NM"ER                          SUlff 1M          9    12   12      6                       39 99.4  108.0 144.0 144.0  72.0                      468.0
PROCEIEIII SPECIALIS                           STAFF MM          3      3    9      -                      is 98.4  36.0  36.0 108.0       -                     1-0.0
ACCOlAt                                        STlAFFmm          3   9   -   -                             12 90.4 36.0 100.0 -44.0
COISTItUCIU EIPIBT/CIVlt EN11CINER            BSlI  1n1           3   12      9     -     -     -    -   24  90.4  36.0 244.0 100.0         -     -     -     -  280.0
AUDI3T                                         ST1AF1F MM               I     I     I    I      I     1     7 99.4   12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0    84.0
Sub-Total 11(231cM  06151812T                                                                                           220.0 444.0 372.0  84.0  12.0  t2.0  12.0 1164.0
6. FECtLSIS22PS IIE0SIIRI tER4                    StlF  tO1114       -     -    2      -     -2    4                        -     -  10.0     -     -      -     -    20.0
Sub-lotul S1E6N1TI2N0  PR00I( I1EIEl.t1T201  CSIL1ITY                                                                     333.0 474.3 302.  84.0  12.0  12.0  12.0 1.309.3
lotal ISTIIIENI CWSTS                                                                                                         59.0 64.0 490.0 106.5  84.5 112.0 212.0 2,121.9
II. ECUIRElT COSTS
Fltt I EU Ill S10?                                                                                                         45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4   5.4      -     -   226.8
PIU CR3II22G COSTS                                                                                                         11.0  16.5  16.5  16.5  16.5  16.5  16.5  209.8
ME1  1R*I2S0U COSTS                                                                                                         1.5  5.0   5.S   5.8   5.8   2.9   1.5    29.0
Total 91(239111 COSTS                                                                                                          57.8  67.6  67.6  67.6  67.6  19.4  17.9   35.6
..-|      ..... ...-g-s   .:  .::  :::r -
1otal                                                                                                                           66.8 717.5 557.7 174.1 152.1 131.4 129.9 2,409.5
..   . .  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    . __...   ..c.                                            .....   ..c.   .....    ...._
a ' 80912' .  24 4m
.. .........
loppIts 4 VP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
..   .. ..... ..... ..... .... ..... ..... ..... ...   ..... ..... ..... ..... .... ....  ....   .....  ... ..... ----- ----- ----



- 104 -
Annex 3-12
Page 1 of 9
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Examinations Reform in the Gambia
Issues and Recommendations
Summary                       -            - -
1.        The examination component of the Education Project would support
policy reforms in the educational sector which aim to increase enrollment
and access to primary and secondary education, reduce gender disparities in
education opportunity and quality, and raise overall student achievement.
The component would create a leaving and certification examination at the
end of the six-year primary and the new three-year middle school cycles
covering all subjects in the respective curricula.  The examinations would
be designed to: (a) assess achievement across the broad range of the
curriculum; (b) certify the completion of the objectives of a cycle of
education; (c) prc.vide a basis for selection to the next cycle of -
education; and (d) monitor student achievement in different regions over -
time and feed this information back into the education system, i.e. to
students. teachars. school administrators, the inspectorate, the CDC, the
planning unit, the teacher training college. in order to improve the
quality of teaching and learning. Technical assistance, training and
equipment would be provided in support of these measures.
Examinations in the Gambia
2.        There are currently four external examinations in the Gambia:
the Common Entrance Examination (CEE) at the end of primary school (grade
6) for admission to secondary school: the Secondary Technical School
Leaving Certificate Examination (STSLCE) at the end of form 4 in Secondary
Technical School and the General Certificate of Education (GCE) '0' and 'A'
levels at the end of Forms 5 and 6 respectively.
3.        The STSLCE  and the GCE '0' and 'A' levels are subject
examinations. Candidates select subjects from particular groups and to
obtain an overall pass on the examination must obtain a pass in a
prescribed number of individual subjects. The CEE is a combination English
and maths achievement test and verbal and quantitative aptitude test. High
scoring students enter academic high schools leading to '0' level and 'A'
level examinations. Those who do not qualify for entry to high school
enter four year secondary technical schools %ihich were intended to
emphasize practical subjects to meet employment needs. First year
secondary technical students are eligible to retake the CEE and if they
score within the cutoff range, transfer to a high school. At the end of



- 105 -                             Annex 3-12,
Page 2 of 9
four years, secondary technical students take a leaving certificate
examination and enter the job market. This annex will concentrate on the
CEE since the examination component of the education project seeks to
reform that examination.
Administration of Examination System
4.        All four examinations are administered by the West African
Examinations Council (WAEC), an external, regional examining authority
comprising Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. WAEC is an
independent body, funded partly by separate goverament allocation and
partly by revenue raised from user fees. It has over 35 years of
experience and a proven record of professionalism and efficiency in
designing, administering and scoring exams.
5.        The WAEC office in the Gambia has 9 senior staff, six registrars
and three examination officers. Registrars have specialties in English and
literature, history, math and physics, biological sciences, agrIcultural
sciences, and chemistry. One examination officer is in charge of printing,
the other two assist the Registrars in administration of examinations.
(See Attachment 1 for administrative structure of the WAEC office in
Banjul). The MOE decides general policy regarding the content and format.
of the CEE and presents these guidelines to 1'EC.  WAEC sets up a panel df
subject experts, made up of experienced teachers and staff from Gambi4 e
College, etc., and using MOE guidelines, develops examination questions.   -
WAEC is responsible for registration of studentss preparation, printing,
and distribution of examination papers; appointment of supervisors and
markers, organization of moderation meetings during the marking process and
preparation and publication of results. From setting of items to awarding
of marks, names of candidates remain secret. VAEC often runs spot security
checks on those administering examinations but generally relies on trust.
Size of Examination Enterprise
6.        The number of candidates taking the CEE has risen from
approximately 4,165 in 1977 to about 13,882 in 1989. Entries for the CEE
during the period 1983-1989 represent about 95 percent of pupils enrolled
in grade 6. However, it is hard to determine the exact percent of primary
6 students taking the examination as primary 6 pupils Who fail the CEE are
allowed to repeat grade six and sit for the examination the next year.
Also secondary technical students vho did not score high enough to enter an
academic high school are allowed to resit the CEE to try for a higher
score.
7.        Nationally, boys taking the examination in 1988 outnumbered
girls two to one. However this figure conceals wide regional differences.
For instance, almost equal numbers of boys and girls from the Banjul area
sat for the examination. On the other hand, five times more boys than
girls from the North Bank division and over 3 and a half times more boys
than girls from the Upper River division sat for the examiiation. At the
same time, the boys in the Banjul area who sat for the exam ou*-b. '.ered the
boys in the Upper River ditisidni 3 to 1. This attests to both ye%der and
regional differences in educational attainment.



- 106 -                           Annex 3-12
Page 3 of 9
8.        Funding of Examinations.  Candidates pay 25 dalasis to take the
CEE. MOE pays for candidates who can not afford this fee. MCE also makes
up the shortfall for expenses above revenues raised from fees.
9.        Type of Examinations.  The CEE is composed of an achievement
test in English and maths and an aptitude test measuring verbal and
quantitative abilities. The final mark is a composite of scores on these
two parts of the examination. GCE '0' and 'A' levels are achievement type
tests. The CEE uses multiple choice formats for the English, maths and
verbal and quantitative parts of the examination. There is also an essay
paper to test mastery of written English. Teachers prepare their own
classroom tests which are given once a month or every two months. These
form the basis of promotion decisions from grade to grade, but do not
contribute to grades in the external terminal examination for primary
school. Introduction of a continuous assessment scheme, which would be
taken into account in final public examination results, is being currently
debated. Introduction of such a scheme has administrative and staff
training requirements as well as problem of monitoring and coordinating
standards.
Uses of Examination Results
10.       In the Gambia, external examinations perform a selection
function.  The CEE is used to allocate scarce places in secondary 
education, performance on GCE '0' level to scarce places in senior
secondary and on GCE 'A' level to higher education. CEE scores rank order
students from highest to lowest marks rather than indicate achievement of a
set of educational objectives. MOE creates cut off marks for entry into
academic high school and for entry into secondary technical school. Each
individual high school creates their own cut off marks. For GCE '0' level,
the MOE makes the selection for high schools. The criteria of selection is
no less than a mark of 5 in all subjects and no less than 3 in the
subject(s) in which candidate intends to specialize in Form 6. High
schools decide who goes to sixth form.
11.       WAEC prepares chief examiners reports.  The type of information
provided about student performance and recommendations to teachers are too
general and descriptive to be of use to schools and teachers. There are no
statistics on each student's performance on each test question, or analysis
of wrong answers and the problems of teaching/learning they reflect.
Schools, MOE and Gambia College are provided free copies of the report.
students have to purchase them. WAEC will provide a report to a potential
employer of a candidate provided the candidate places a request and pays
for it.
Performance on Examinations
12.       For the past decade only about 35Z of students who have sat for
the CEE have entered secondary school. This is largely due to the shortage
of places at the secondary level. Pass marks on the examination are based
on the number of places available at the secondary level rather than
achievement of the objectives of the curriculum. Less than 8? of students
taking the CEE score at the upper range for entry into high school, 23Z in



- 107 -                                  Annex 3-iZ
Page 4 of 9
the middle range for entry into secondary technical schools while 682 score
at the low score range failing to gain entrance into secondary school.
Over the past five years boys have comprised 78Z of those in the upper
score range and girls only about 22S. Boys make up 772 of those at the
middle range, girls 23Z. Sixty-eight percent of those at the low score
range are boys, 322 are girls. (See attachment 2)
13.       The CEE has an important influence on what is taught in schools.
Because the CEE covers a small portion of the primary school curriculum
(science and social studies are not tested), it narrows what is taught in
primary schools. Previous examination papers can be bought by the public
and also reinforce studying and teaching to expectations of what will
appear on the examination. Since two thirds of the pupils and their
schooling at the primary cycle, there is concern about the usefulness of
the examinations-defined content of primary education to those who do not
continue their schooling.
The Quality of Examination
14.       Examination item writers are graduates in the required subject
matter with 5-6 years of experience. Multiple choice type items are pre-
tested at CEE and GCE '0' level. Essay type items are not pretested. 'A'
level exams are not pre-tested except for the French paper which has a
multiple choice format.  A study to determine the correlation! between
performance on the CEE and 5 years later on the GCE '0' level examinatio4
in English, Maths, Biology and Physics for Gambia High School, St.-Peterts
Technical High School and Armitage High School found positive correlations.-
coefficients in all four subjects. The highest correlations were for
English Grades for Gambia High School (0.79) and the lowest for Maths in
St. Peter's Technical High School (0.2125). For all three schools put
together the highest correlations were obtained for English (0.69) and the
lowest for biology (0.25). The CEE seems to be a reliable predictor of
verbal/language ability, much less so for quantitative/math ability. The
results of the study also suggest that verbal and quantitative ability
measured on CEE are less successful predictors of later mastery of skills
necessary to succeed in the sciences. These findings support arguments for
including science subjects on PSLCE to encourage the teaching of scientific
principles and skills in the classrooms. Correlations also pointed to
differences in performance outcomes by schools, with the prestigious Gambia
High School having higher correlations in all subjects.
Issues and Problems
15.       Resource, staff, and management constraints are barriers to
improving and localizing examination practice in the Gambia. Specific
findings about the health of the education and examination system are
summarized belows (i) the efficiency of the education system is low as
shown by high repetition and drop out rates, low transition rates to
secondary education, and uimet demand for secondary education; (ii) the
quality of education and the opportunity to learn is not uniform throughout
the school system; because the quality of teachers is low, and textbooks
and instructional materials scarce and inadequately used; (iii) the current
CEE does not reflect the goals and objectives of the educational



- 108 -
Annex 3-12
Page 5 of 9
system and may contribute to wastage and regional and gender disparities in
educational attainment. It is not clear whether what the CEE is measuring
relates to what should be taught in primary school. Examination results do
not indicate an objective standard of performance linked to curricular
objectives. CEE results merely indicate whether a student's score is
within the cut off range for high school or secondary technical school.
(iv) WAEC has the experience, expertise and administrative efficiency to
perform the technical function of measuring and certifying achievement, but
considers providing the type of analysis of student performance and
feedback on student achievement to inform and support educational policy
beyond its brief. The current examination system does not diagnose
learning deficiencies and gaps; monitor student achievement in different
subjects, overtime and across educational regions; give any indication of
the effectiveness of the school curriculum and instructional materials;
relate performance of schools to the quality of schools and the opportunity
to learn: and (v) the material and human resources required to establish an
examination and assessment system that performs selection, certification,
and monitoring functions will require technical assistance as well as
external funding for hiring new staff and training existing staff.
Institutional problems
.i) The MOE has been reorganized, but there are still staff b
shortages within various units.  The Planning unit, for examplt,
is a two man operation. It has little or no equipment and no - .
effective information management, storage and retrieval system.
It therefore finds it difficult to regularly compile and publish
basic education data.
(ii)  The CDC is short of subject specialists to prepare teaching
syllabuses. Until 1989 it had produced only a primary school
teaching syllabus in its 12-13 years of existence. It has
recently established a research and evaluation unit to evaluate
the effectiveness of the curriculum. The designated coordinator
for this unit is a person with appropriate training and interest
in issues of assessment and evaluation. However, as yet the
unit has no staff or facilities to carry out the desired
function of providing WAIC support in analyzing examination
results and monitoring student performance. To perform this
function the research and evaluation unit would need specialist
training for selected staff and facilities for data storage and
analysis, for item design and experimentation, and for
information processing. The unit would also need resources for
carrying out surveys and school visits and for running school-
based assesment seminars and workshops.
(iii)  The Inspectorate was fairly recently established, and is till
quite weak, and needs to be strengthened. If the inspectorate
is to manage the desired CA scheme, staff would need special



- 109 -                             Annex 3-12
Page 6 of 9
training in monitoring and evaluation techniques.
(iv) The Gambia college now graduates only 40 teachers per year. It
has no expertise in measurement and evaluation. If it is to
support implementation of a continuous assessment scheme, Gambia
college will have to design pre-and in-service courses in formal
assessment and evaluation, and increase substantially its yearly
output of trained teachers.
Obiectives of the Examinations Component
16.       The purpose of the examination component is to make the
examination system at the primary and middle school levels more responsive
to the obiectives of the educational system of the Gambia. Those
objectives include: (1) provision of 9 years of basic education t a 6-year
primary and a 3-year middle school cycle), comprising a range of knowledge
and skills to increase the self-reliance, adaptability, flexibility, and
employability of the work force, and (2) increasing transition rates from
primary to secondary education (from the current 35Z to 602 by 2003) to
meet the increasing demand for places at the secondary level without
restricting the expansion of primary education. Emphasis of erminal
examinations at the end of each cycle will shift from selection to
certification. though examinations will play an important role in selecti'on
to further education.
17.       Specifically, the objectives of the examination component are:
(a) to replace WAEC 'international' CEE with locally designed and
administered primary and middle school leaving and certificate
examinations;
(b) to develop examination syllabuses in core subjects for the new
primary and middle school leaving and certificate examinations;
(c) to establish a continuous assessment scheme (CA) in grades 1-9.
CA at grades 1 to 3 would be primarily to diagnose learning
problems and identify remedial needs. CA at grades 4 to 9 would
form a percentage (15-20 percent) of the total score in the PSLC
and MSLC examinations; and
(d) to develop a feedback system to monitor student performance on
examinations over time and across schools.
Recommendations
18.       The demand for services created by national examinations at the
end of primary and middle school are not sufficient to warrant a separate
examinations unit. WAEC is probably in the best position to develop and
administer the new national examinations at the end of primary and middle
school by the 1992 and 1995 target dates. With regard to fulfilling the
feedback function of examinations, the Planning unit would provide WAEC
statistical and analytical support. The inspectorate could be used to
collect data from schools and to disseminate feedback from the analysis of
examination performance results.



- 110 -
Annex 3-12
Page 7 of 9
Implementation
19.       To have the PSLC examination in place and the new MSLC
examination by 1991/92 CDC and WAEC (Banjul Office) in the development of
examination instruments which match the objectives and content of the
revised primary and new middle school curricula. It will also require the
support of the Planning unit the Inspectorate and Gambia College. The
following strategies will be used: (See Attachment 3 for implementation
timetable).
Primary and Middle School Leaving Certificate Ezaminations
(1) Based on revised primary school teaching syllabuses, CDC and
relevant units in MOE will define scope and format, and cost of
examination. Examinations will be set for core subjects:
English, maths, science and social studies.
Cii) WAEC and CDC will set up a panel of subject experts to develop
examination syllabuses, based on teaching syllabuses from CDC.
Schools, MOE and CDC will review draft examination syllabuses.
(iii)  Before panel of subject specialist work on examination
questions, WAEC will conduct workshops on item-writing.
Civ) WAEC will trial test examinations with support of inspectorate
and CDC.
(v) WAEC will administer and mark examinations and provide
standardized scores to the MOE.
(vi) Planning Unit with the assistance of CDC Research, and
Evaluation unit will analyze examination results to obtain: (i)
pupil performance by subject; (ii) performance by category of
schoolt and (iii) patterns of error by subject and individual
test question.
(vii) MOE and CDC Research and Evaluation will decide what to feedback
in what form to schools, the inspectorate, teacher pre-service
and in-service programs, and WAEC item writers.
Continuous Assessment
20.       These will include masures to diagnose shortcomings in student
performance and to foster higher, more uniform and relevant student
attainment prior to selection in or out of primary and secondary school.
ti) Establishing a continuous assessment scheme will require
collaboration between the HOE, CDC Research and Evaluation,
Inspectorate, Planning Unit, Gambia College, and school
administrators.



- 111 -                               Annex 3-1'
Page 8 of 9
(iU)  CDC subject and evaluation spocialists will define the scope and
formats of CA.
(iii)  Gambia college and CDC will workout pre-servicing and in-
servicing of teachers on CA methods.
(iv) InTdividual schools will help organize, administer and monitor
CA. In each school a senior teacher for each subject will be
trained and assigned the task of overseeing CA of pupils in each
subject.
(v) A senior staff member in each school will be assigned as overall
supervisor of CA activities and will be in charge of central
recording of all CA scores submitted by classroom teachers.
(vi)  Trained school inspectors based at RE0s will monitor CA
activities. Inspectors will visit each school three times per
term to monitor assessment procedures and compilation and
recording of scores. They will also review and select samples
of assessment exercises and scoring procedures and provide them
to CDC Evaluation and Research. CDC Evaluation and Research and
Planning Unit will vet and evaluate these and feedback results
to schools and teachers in order fcz them to adjust and refine:
their assessment and scoring methods. 
(vii)  Planning Uuit and CDC Research and Evaluation will use
cumulative scores from each school to analyze performance and
achievement trends, to identify what type of interventions to
make and where to ensure equal opportunities to learn within and
across schools.
(viii) MOE will kewp a cumulative record of individual pupils
performance on CA exercises at end of grades six and nine, the
HOE will convert these scores to standardized scores for each
subject. The resulting scores will be used with the terminal
assessment scores supplied by WASC to form the final PSLC and
MSLC examination grades.
21.       ReauLrements
(i) Technical Assistance - Testing/measurement Specialist (for six
mouths) in WVAC to evaluate content of examinations to determine
how closely it matches curricular objectives and to determine
quality of ezaminatiou items i.e. thelr fairness and whether
measuring reasoning and problem solving skills,
(ii)  New Staff - Research specialist (for one year) in VAEC Research
Unit to carry out validity studies and studies on performance
data of the new examinations and their effects on teaching
practices, pupil learning and achievement,



- 112 -                                 Annex 3-12
Page 9 of 9
-    Evaluation specialists (for one year) in CDC Evaluation and
Research to monitor implementation of the continuous
assessment system and the new examination structure,
-    Computing specialist (for three months) in Planning Unit of
MOE to handle the computing requirements of administering
examinations and analyzing and disseminating results. Will
have knowledge of data maragement, spread
sheets,institutional packages and some programming
knowledge to support Statistician in Planning Unit.
(iii) Training - In-service for lead teachers: training in
measurement and evaluation, instructional objectives and
planning a test, item writing and marking, diagnosis and
analysis of learning deficiencies, remedial instruction, record
keeping for continuous assessment.
-    For the Inspectorates  training in monitoring and managing
the school-bases procedures of Continuous Assessment,
-    For WAECs long term overseas training in evaluation and
measurement for one subject officer and short term overseas
training in general test development and research (3 staff)
and in computer assisted assessment and evaluation (3  :
staff).
(iv)  Equipment:  A computer with appropriate software:  in Planning
Unit to handle the increased volume of examination papers and
the increased complexity of the analysis of examination results.



- 113 -
Annex 3-12
Attachment I
P.O. BOx 5 1, 1A   U        _ U   ZT-- H e  A :.IStA
AO.l!iISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OP SANJUL OffIS-
SENIOR STAFF
Senior Oeouty Registrar
And meac of Office
Principal Assistant Registrar,                   Senior Assistant Registr-
Head of Test Oevolopment And                     And Head of Test Adminnis-
Research                                        tration
 -e----~~~~~~~  ~ ~          --   -------
Assistant Registrar II                           Assistant Registrar It
Research Officer                                  ON STUOY LEAVE
r------------_.                r-~~~~~-------
4.  -  ---
Examinations OfficersL Asststant Registrar tt
Examinattons
Officers
__ _ _  __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _           ,,,



- 114 -                                                    Annex 3-12
Attachment 2
THE CUM8BA
COUMON ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS
Reu:te by Meok Olotribution
Year   Score              Overall        Boys                            Girls
Range
_-------------- -----        --------------------1---------!---------I---------9---------!--------- ---------
!           !Number     S ot      I          9. of     1X of      I         !X of      !% of
Total    lNunber   !Total    Score    !Number   !Total    !Score
I           9                     9          I         !Rang      I         I          1Range    I
High     1983  !313 - 246  !819        9.0        I 640      !7.6      !78.1      1?79      !2.1       !21.9
1984  !312 - 248  1917        9.3        I 706     !7.2      !77.0      1211       !2.1      !23.0
1986  .329 - 240  !786        6.6        ! 625     95.3       !79.3     !163       !1.4      !20.7
1986  1308 - 262  1792        6.1        I 602     !4.0      !76.0      !190       !1.5      !24.0
1Q87  9320 - 265  !855        6.2        9 644     14.6       175.3     1211       !1.0      !24.7
1988  !325 - 246  11302       9.5        !1009     !7.4      177.4      !293       !2.1      !29.88
1989  1325 - 236  11361      10.1        91036     17.6       95.0      1345       !2.4      !25.0
9    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                            ----------- -          --------
!iddle   1963  !244 - 214  11663      19.7        '1302     916.2      977.1     !3896       4.6      !22.9
!WUiddle   1964  !247 - 214  12572    26.1        91976     !20.0      970.6     96906      !.0        !23.2
!          1986  !239 - 200  !3046      25.6        !2370     919.9      977.8     !676       !6.7      !22.2      !
1986  !261 - 216  !2762      21.1        !2123     !16.3     !76.8      !640       !4.9      !23.2     !
1987  9254 - 214  12781      20.0        !2092     !16.1     175.2    !989         !5.0      !24.8     !
1988  1246 - 206  93414      24.9        !2576     !18.8      975.6     9838       !6.1      !23.50    !
1989  !236 - 194  13751      27.6        !2769     !20.3      !73.8     9982       !7.2      !26.2      !
! ------ l-                                                                                   9         -9- - ---- !--!----!----
1983  !213 - 0    969C1      69.5        !4141     !40.3      969.6     !1810      !21.1     13Q.4      !
!ow      1984  !13 - 12   16683    64.7          !4398      i44.5     96.8       91990     !20.2     131..2     !
! Low    1908  !_90 - 94   !7930      60.7        96245      944.1     966.1      !2686     !22.6      !33..1     !
1986  !215 - 99   9930       71.2        90142     947.0      966.0     93169      !24.2     !34.0      !
1987  9213 - 97   910052    72.1         16605     947.0      965.7     !3447      !24.8     !25.0      !
1968  !204 - 90  !985        66.6        !6776     !42.1      964.2     !3222      !23.6     !35.8
!          1989  !193 - 101  18477      62.3        !6308     !39.0      !62.2     hl169      !23.3     !34.4
------                               ----------11----------------------- 
198   !A           I 108      1.3        9 72      !0.8      I-         !36        !0.4      !-
1984  98           9 136      1.4        I -       I -        I-        I -        !-        !-         !
19865I             9 I 123    1.0        I 71      90.6         -       !62        !0.4      !-
1986   ! E            209     1.0       9133       91.0        -        9          90.6      !- I
1907        N      9 206      1.5        I -       I -        I-        !-         !-        !- 
!          1969         T    9 19        1.4        I -       I -        I-        !-         !-        !- 
!         1989  I            ! 251      1.8        9139      91.0       9-        !112       90.8      I-         !
! ---------______-__________ ~~~~~~-  _ -- - ------ - ----------------!
!          1963   The, Gambi I 2666                                                           920 616  71.  1  !241;  !28.1  I -  !
Total    1984  t            ! 9872      100       !70765     171.7               !2797      128.3      I -
!   1986  1        11187      100        !8311     !69.9      I         !3676      !30.1     I -        !
!   198d  1        flm6       too        !8999     !08.9      9         !4096 !31.1          I-         !
1987  !            91389      100        !9458     966.1      I         !4847      !31.3     I-         !
1968                                     9 11S912  too  I -  I -  I     I -        I -       I- 
1989  I            913662     100        !9252     !06.6      I         94608     33.2       I -        !
!                9            I                     !                                       -  - !  !   !--        !



At.t.a, lmi"ul 3
SCHEDULE FOR INTRODUCING PSLC, MSLC EXAMINATIONS
AND CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT FOR GRADES 1 - 9
5s5                                 ..)9I              1149               1902              tt"s                                  lso
JIFM IlAmA       0 JU     I     0     PWA I    SI    JIFMUJI&   IKm Wmm                    IUU            ICVUJA      I
INTERIM  PSLCE-                    ------                  --        -------                     ---A                                    JU/UJAVMDMIi&                   0
1992
FINAL PSLCE
1996                                                                                                                  7                 89                   1
CONTINUOUS
ASSESSMENT (CA)
FOR PRIMARYID
SCHOOL                                                                                              D
FIRST MSLCE
1995
CONTINUOUS
ASSESSMENT (CA)
FOR MIDDLE
SCHOOL                                                                                                                                  2
t Repwutooof eof      Exa. 6*hubue  afib CICI UA*S PasF                           I3 CA t_6 - Gas de                                  25. CA hi Grade C EIu Scbool
|2 Cobissln Trial Tesie nd O_iin Ted ll.ft                                        14. lnarnvce of On" t  2 and 6 Teades               26. Wakdep to Grads 9 Teahr In CA
3. Plg and Padag of Eum                                                           15. CA bes - G       at l 51                        27 CAboon Gaade 
4. Candatg of Eem                                                                1U. bIVu*e of Orae2 3  4 Teaches
S. Processdg Ofeaits                                                              V. CA bhea - rade 2 A 4
|  Resg el Retu"s to MOE NM                                                       S. Prpi  Exan Saes for Fhst tSLC                        KEt
|. PsepoasUon of Em SyUabuses based an fIre realsd teacUag Sodom by VEC      1 1   Conur4lsa f Thad Tesig ad akbeg of Teat   n                PStCE - Ptbes ScUod LteasI
S. Cml5alo    Tdd Tle   A Sukin of Teds llama                                     20. Prntig ad Pitbng of Esns                                        Cdtcat Ew 
S. PJ FUtg nd PackaoI of Exam                                                     2t Cetating tat AlC
to tat PSLC based an fui  insled tladig S>csbuas A 51915 into sccemt mtr  on CA    22 Wrkshop far Grae 7 T"chsrs In CA                           CA - Coe_aiu Asas_sam
|t Develping capadl fo CAllTra_n bweteto                                           23. CA boon Gral Midl Schol                                MSLCE - Nii Schal LE"si
12. insewvce Train Gosd. 5 Teachert for CA                                         24. Workshop fo ?We P T"ecs In CA                                  Cdhtlt  Esaam
1    'IT           1         I  r T   lI           I  r I  I  1 1TFT   T-rT-   --Tr-r-I r I  I  I  I  I I  I  I   I   i II 1--1I   -rFT
5585, .560,1.



GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
SUMMARY OF INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE AND COSTS SAVINGS
Not amount                    Not amount
Primary Educ.     Primary Educ.            Total      Oudgot without   Amount financed  to bo finnaced                   to be financ
Budget with       Budget growing  Incremental cost    Internal          by internal       by incroeinlg                  a. percent a
Yer Policy Packago    at 4 3 (Tread)        to be financed R"ellocation       re-allocation       MOE share       MOE BUDGET  MOE Budget 3
In bwdget
1990      20,354          26,354                0               26354                    0                  0        06,190           0.03
l991      27,032          27,409              224               27305                  207                -43       07,601           -0.12
0992      29,132          28,604              60                "S5u                   540                 *2       70,C10            0.13
903       30,013          29,646       t       6                29177                  63                -480       73,320           -0.03
l994      U3,283          30,30            2,458               32143                 1140              II1        76,961            1.71
!99       35,63           02,064            3,470               34079                 1455               2016       61,103            2.63
toes      30,6"           33,346             ,520               S56                   1763               1737        65,065           2.01
1997      39,030          34,600            4,9C60              3750                  2126              m2           67,000             232
1996      40,900          80,067            4,013               36411                 2402               2361        90,236           2.03           -
1909      42,196          37,610            4,6"                34                    2862               6n3         93,357           2.01
2000      43,964          30,010            4,944               40716                 3233               1706        97,012           1.63
1001      40,820          40,671            *,0U                42567                  U309              1996       100,603           2.01
X002      48,641          42,194            6,347               44496                 4056               2291       104,230           2.23
2003      60,493          48,U91            0,612               4003                  4490               2122       107,409           2.03
Totale (1990-1997)                          15,612                                   0,152          7,400
.6 ,*' *.



-   17 -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'"I..i.. if..  .i.
ii_.  i.    . ... . _.. ._            .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .  . .
3Y~~~~:u ;||                           *g            .11 '£t'  i  S.
A....    ..... .s-'-- - -- - - -'- - '              -  ''   -'''' ---'''  '--
6S~~~11 jSi                  fl   'Pi 
- g  . l; S j   -                                    _~~~~~I- 
a _  * X i |   e      d         ;         .: A         z _~~~i  *   .
-~ ~~~~~~~~I e  :31                             'I i~      U
<='S~~~~~' ,arS   ,;Ut                          -        :e*
b   * i g |  l i 1111311                    IoIo1111
IC    I                    -C 
4c~~~~~~ 
40~~~~~~~~~~e
11.1X                     .-
Zr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
:__. 5 ....... __ ,   _   _            _0                   0 0 e
! '          .El| tttt Xtt, ,t
.  i. l ixi                                      we       - j  -



l MY
i~~~~ R, if R.g'I R                 |-[
!                          -   - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - -
s.~ ~ a               la -t tR       L1
;    3    l'            -      U   [   a t
' * .             i  ! l, .   3       '3 
'~~~~~' ''                                   Jf I_
*~~~~~~~ i                                a         111
-0~~~~ oo 'o  o
i     i~   e    i  i      i1
II    t                 2i  U                 t.        
B* 3.                               .
3.~ ~~ ~ 11  -.



AMEX 3-10
Page I of 3
Civil Works Su   ry for All Co_pon-nts
B00 Cost. in USe
---__------------------------------------------------------------
Area In eq... (*2)            Unit
------------- -----------    Cost  Per Unit                       Por Place
Capacity                         Net    Net     C.W         ---------------------------  -------------------------
----- -------            (2)     Per   Por   Por d2       Civil  Equipt.               Civil Equipt.
Unit Per Usit  Total    Net Gross  Place   Unit   (Gross)        Work  Furnit.    Total      Work Furnit.    Total
1. Primary Schools
N o wbe Construction
* Classroom            8       s0    ISO     150   188    1.0      60     3120     37,600   81,200  68,700       8150      324     1174
* Office               1        I      1      12    15   12.0      12     3120     31,500    U380   32,130    31,300    M380   82,180
e Storage              1        1      1      12    16   12.0      12     1120     81.800     1847   32,147    61.500    1347   82.147
* toilets block        2        4      a      14    18    1.8       7 ?    120     S1,060       30   81,060       S263      *0     8263
Block of 8 classrooms     1      160    160     133   236    1.3   18t       *120    32n,200   S1,927  680,127      $31,0      18     8201
- Rehabilitation (2)      1      160    150     186   286    1.8    188       360     14,100   81,927  811,027        694     $1s     1107 o
- Wells and pumps (3)                                                                 82,700   31,a24   34,024
(1) Cost for Supervision by Mobile Construction Units setisated at 7X is not Included;
(2) For a Block of 8 classroom;
(8) Expected to be required In 405 of ne sites.
NOTE: Inputs from comunities (unskilled labor and local construction materials) are estiated at 265
Remodeling of Middle
Schools (1)
* Laborator)           1       45     46      60   68    1.1    60        8149     39,318  314,410 828,780       8207    3320      3527
* Storage              1        1      1      12    16   12.0      12     1149     $2,256  88,460   35,695    82,236  33,460   16,695
Total                     1       46     46      62    78    1.4    62       3149    811,686  317,878  329,426       1267  83,781   84,038
gu. F. -



THE GABMIA                                                Annex 3-15
EDuCATII  SECTOR PROJECT
lProlvosed IMPLEHENTATION SCHEDULE
CY     19e9       1 190      1 1s        I  1           199     t994          1996       196          1
--------- I   --------- I --------- I   --------- I   -------- _ I   -- - - -   I_    ---------  ---------
IDA FY   I    11990       11991       11992      11995      11994       11996       1199l       1097    1
I                  .I
1. Dievlop_at of Curlcula and Temtbooha             I                                                                                              I
I
a)  bevD l*./RovIsloa of Syllabl *ad Curricula   I xsxI
b)  Dovelop/Rvisi og Muemscript.                  I            sun.                                                                               I
c)  Pilot te.tiog of Materials                    I                                                                                               I
Publimblu/Priatiog Meterialo                 I                        ama        anus
)  PisiributI oe to Sc&o.le                       I                                         sasauuxxaxas asxsa                                    I
.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2. la-Service Teacher Upgrading                      I Project
Effective-                                                                                   ;
a)  Suwmer Courmee                                  owe         ma          sun         san        axs         X41k        son        sun    maul
b)  Self-Study Programs                                              N sunn     anux       sxxa        mxx        mxs           anns
3. eoelop. of Locel Ern. £ Self Asatoo m_t           I                                                                                               I
a)  Primery Scbhol Leeviag Exar                   I                      ma                                                                       I
b)  Middle School Leaviso fume                    I                                                                    Ka                         I
c)  Coatinzues Aamwment   hme                                         .    amass
I                  .I
4. Civil Works                                       I
*)  Primary Clseara  Coeetructtloea               I                       eaaasauasnuaauua saaassmmanuaaaaasusanspu ttasassaasasmmat 
b)  Cooverolon of Middle Schools                  I                      A m s s Itttxltxx                                                        t
c)  Osble Techbicl Trele.to lost.                 I                   .A ussaasttasx                                                             t
d)  Vocational Traoelog Ce"ter                    I                   . A masnunx                                                                 I
I                  .I
I                  .I
- t                                  ~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                       I
AAA a Preperatory Phase (deslpe, bidding          I
doc m_te)
-.-----------------------------------_-------------_------_-----------_--__--__--_-----------------_------------------------------------------
I~~~~~~~~~~ 9 '1 



ANNtEX 3-16
Page 2 of 3
Civil Works Sumary for All Components
Bass Costa In USS
Are  In *q... (.2)            Unit
--------------------------    Cost   Per Unit                      Per Place
Capacity                         Not   Net       C.W-  ---------------------------  -^--------------------
----------------         (2)     Pot   Per  Per M2         Civil  Equipt.               Civil E'.1pt.
Unit Per Unit  Total     Not  oress Place   Unit   (Gross)       Work  Furnit.    Total       Work  aranit.    Total
S. Vocational Training
Eanjul (Rehabilta ion)
clasroos o4                 45   10       210   270    1.2     54       *60     83,376   82,257   85,S32         75     850     8126
* Auto *lectr.         1       12      12       I   101    0.8     e1      *60     86,063   *3,856   S8.447       8422    1282     1704
* Store                1         1      1            68    4.0     54       as0    83,975   82,267   36,882    83.87S  82,2c7   16,632
* Automotive           1        12     12     160   200   13.8    160       360    810.000    6.686  816,686       a883    3567   $1,391
a Office store         1         1      1       0o   68  30.0      80       860     81,876   31,254   33,120    21,876  81,264   83,129
e Carpentry (gen)      1        12     12     264   880   22.0    284       860    810,500  311,032  327,652    31,375    $919   82,294
* Carpentry (work)     1       12      12      90   118   7?.      90       *50     36,26  U3,761   390,86         3469    3813     3782
* Sto,e                1         1      1      80    so   80.0    80        360     31.876   31,264   $8,120    01,876  31.264   38,129
* Mecan. (work)        1       12      12     120   1S0   10.0    120      1150,    1.70   36,016  812,516         5626    3413   31,04
a Staff room           1         1      1      24    80   24.0     24       S50     21,500   81,001   82,508   3St500  31,008   82,508
* Store                I        I       1      24    80   24.0     24       l50     31,600   81,008   82,608    31,600  31,008   32,608
* Welding              1       12      12     1J6   160   11.8   1AS       860      83,486   86,641  S14,079       8708    $470   81,178
* Fabrication          1       12      12      48    60    4.0     48       150    83,000   82,006   36,006        S20    8167      1417
* Masonry              1       12      12      6o    76    6.0     60       060     as.760   12,607   36,267       3818    3209     3621
a Store                1        2       2     100   185   64.C    106       860     36,760   84,618  611,268    38,876  32,267   86,682
a Toilet Block         2       16      32      40    60    1.1     20       360     82,600      8368   68,80       1156     362     3208
a Administration       1        4       4     100   200   40.0    160       360    810,000   36,668  316,6O6    12,5600   1,672   34,172
Total                     1      200    200    1644  2066    8.2  1,644        860   8102,400  168,700 3158,720       8612  81,724   82,230
4. Gambia Technical
Institute (Rehabilitalon)
* Library              I        60     60     209   261    4.2    209      3412   3107,836  326,68  81383,080    12,163    $613   82,608
e Civil work lab       1        12     12      40    60   383      40      3412    320,600   14,913  926,S13    31,717    3409   32,120
o Mechanical lab       1        12     12      40    60    98.     40      8412    820,600   84,913  325,S13    31,717    8409   82,120
* Classrooms           3       46    186      168   210    1.2    56       U412    328,840   36,873  $36,718       8841    $168     a794
* Teacher library      1        0       a      U     46    4.6    a8       U412    818,640   34,421  822,961    S2,318    3563  82,670
* Ressources lab       1        12     12      U     46    8.0    a8       U12    816,640   84,421  322,961    31,546   3868   81,913
* Curricula 0ev.       1        4       4      86    46    9.0      86     3412    n18,640   34,421  322,061    34,686  31,106   36,740
* Store                1         1      1      16    28   18.0      18     3412     19,270   32,211  811,481    89,270  32,211  311,481
Total                     1       200    200    563   720    2.9.   683       3425  O30,500  371,600 $300,410    81,648    a368   11,906
(1) 26S of capital cost                                                               t W
--Eu...-



AMEX 3-18
Page 3 of 3
Civil worhs Summary for All Componeuta
Some Costs In US8
Area in sq... (.2)             Unit
-------------------------     Cost   Per Unit                       Per Placo
Capecity                          Net    Net      C.w  -                 -  ----.-------------------
----------------          (2)     Per    Per   Per M2        Civil  Equipt                 Civil Equipt.
Unit Per Unit  Total      Net Gross  Place   Unit   (Cross)        Work  Furnit.    Total        Work Furnit.    Total
6. Curriculum Development
Center (Now construction)
* Offices              12        2      24     190   288    7.9       16     S617    PLC,032   13,820  814,062    66,116  11,910   S7iW26
* Conference room       1       80      s0      40    60    1.3       40     8617    826,860   89,649  $36,492         8802    8322   81,183
* Library               1        4       4      82    40    8.0       32     8617    820,680   87,719  828,399    85,170  11,930   17,100
J Printing              1        1       1      24    80   24.0       24     6617    $16,610   36,790  921.300   115,610  16,790  121,300
* Store * Toileta       1        6       6      22    23    4.4       22     8617    *14,218   86,307  119,525    S2.844  S1,061   13,906
Total                      1        66     64      0o   865    4.6    808       164   8218,400  874,300 3110,?76    18,834  81,161   34,496
it. Teatbooks Warehouse (New Construction)
* Warehouse             1         1      1     120   160    120    120       1369    868,850  147,683 3101,433 U     63,S60 847,688 S101,433                _
* Office                1         1      1       10    1s     10      10     3869      14,488   13,966   38,468    04,463  13,966   88,463
* HousIng               1         I      1       14    is     14      14     8369      86,288   86,651  811,884    e,238  86,661  n11,834
Total                      1         1      1      144   190    144    144      1869    164,700  857,100 1121,720   164,700 357,100 S121,800
Gambl College
* R*furbishing of
the lecture room        1       60      60     160   188       a    150      8187    82,5600  892,816 8117,91,         8427  31,689   81,965
8:\CW.IKI (IA)
22-Mar-90



P10.C(  COST SIENY
(DALASIS '000)                                     tuts, 
I Total                                         I lotal
I Poreigy, Base                                 I $crnasr   ia'.e
Local    Foreign,  lotal    Ex,change   Costs    Local  Foretan  ITutal   fihru,'   Cost~
A,. PRIIiA.Y SCHOOL. IOMIIPOHNf MC EXPANSION
1. CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION
CONSTRCIJON PTORMAI                                                      299470.2  39P368.2  69v938.4          57       5!  3,593.9  4,801 .0  8,394.9          5?      53
REGIONAL. SUPROWISION                                                     3o032.7   29269.4   5*302.0          43        4    369.9   .276.8    A46.6           43        4
Sub-Total CLASSROOM CONSTRtJCT!oN                                           325620.  41,637.6  74.140.4            56      57  3,963.8  5,077.8  9,041.5-          56       5?
2. CtomRICwLUM RETDISION/POI;ICN TEXTIODS
CURRIC.UI2R IEVELOFEHEN                                                     723.2   2*855.9   3,579.1          90        3     88.2    348.1    436.5           80        3
TEXTBOO  PMODUTION AND OISTRIIJTION                                         2q9.1   5,550.2   5,807.3          96        5     30.4    677.8    708.2           96       5
Sub'-Total CURRICIULU  RE2IISION/PRlOVISI2D2 TEXT800S                          9fl.3   9*414.0   9.386.4           90       7    1126.  1.026.1  1*144.7           90        7
3. TEACHER 998R401KG                                                         5.131.2   10839.2   6,970.3           26       5    6215.9    72.4.3    950, I0       26        5
4. EV.AMINAIIONS MND CONTIlIOU  ASSESSMENT                                     894.0   2*969.2   3,763.2           76       3    109.0    349.9    458.9           :6        3
Sub-Total PRIMARY SC89  IMPROVJEMENT AN  EVPANSOIO                              39400.4  54*759.9  942608.2           58       '3  4*817.1  6.678.0 11*495.1          is       73
8. RESTRUCTURING MND IIIRVJEHENT OF SECONDAY EMOCTION 
1. RERUIDEI.N6 AND EQUIPPING Of MIDDLE SCHOOL.S                                937.1   29928.5   3,665.6           76       3    114.3    352.)    Vt.,.           76       .1
2.C2MIEIIMW REVISION AND PRIIIISION OF INSTRKIJIINI      fAI.JER!ALS             -   3520 38.0                  00        3         -    418      43.           10        3
Subt- otal RCS1RIWTiWING AN  III'I8VINI0 OF SECONDARY EDUCATION                    937.1   6*510.5   7,447.6          87        6    114.3    794.0    908.2          8?        6
C. STRENGIIENIN9 SKILLS TRAINING
1. STRENGTWENtNG GOABIA TECtUICAI. TRAINING INSTITUTE           -----          986,6   2*341.4   3*328.0           70       3    120.3   1285.5    405.9           70        3
2. STRNGIIENING  MANIL SKILL1 TRAINING CENTRE                                  296.6   3,237.4   3,534.0           921       3     36.2    394.0    431.0          92        3
Sug*-Total STRENGTHENING SKILLS TRAINING                                         1,293.2   5t57S.0   6,8621.0         el       5    156.5    690.3    83.4.8          e1        5
0. INSIITIITIONAL EEUELOPINI
1. REORGAIZAIION AND STRENGTHENING NM                                          841.6   6*075.8   64917.4          Be        5    102.6    741.0    843.6           Be       5
2. STRENGTHENING PMlECT IMP'LEMENTATION UNI1T CAPABILITY    ---              2969'.1  10*804.3  139496,3           90      10    3289.3  10317i&  1,645.9          80       20
Sub.-lotal INSTIYUTIONA2 DEVELDPIINT                                            3,533.7  16,99.2  20,413.7            93       16    430.9  2*058.5  7,499.5          83       16
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                             45,25.".3  93,729.2 129.983.5          AS      100  5*518.8 10.210.9 15.729.)          65      100
Phuisic.1 Contingencies                                                        4*525.4   9,372.9  221999.4           65       TO    551.9  11D2I.1  l,5?3.0          t5       t0
Pric- Cor,tlfntet*cie                                                         17*115.4  15,2.33.9  32*349.3          47      25  2*087.2  1*857.8  3,945.0           i?       25
Fotal PROJECI COSTS                                                              66*095.2 207,336.0 274,232.2           62     235  8,157.9 23,099.8 21,247.7           62      135
Al  24. 1990  14i92
I~~~~~~~



HI E &MIA
ElAIil SEtCOR MACY
Soun Accggt I Pmact  uwot
(D"IS1 000)
PRIHw3 mm   ItENEIT MD EXPAISIOI                              ESTR3IURINB AND iINS13SRN3IN1
----------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------   OF SE tEl ECW;101;            SIRENGTHENIHG STatS TRAININ         IISTITUlINL EE
CU1IM REVISION'POISION                                  ----------------------------    ------------------------------    -------------------
IEXlNS                                                           CURICaLUM     SIRENBIIENIN6
CLASSN CSTRtICIION   ----------------------------                                  WINEIKG    REVYISION MNiD  6AIA TECHNICAL
---------------------  TEXTDUIR             EXMINMitiONS    MID E5UIPPIN6  POVISION OF         TPAININI       SIAENGI3NIU    RELRMIZAIUO
CONSTRIWI  REEBIS.         CURRIVAln   PROMETIN MM   TEAER   MID COIImIwS           OF RIDDLE    INSIRUCION.    INSIITUTE          1*.t  SKILL.    m  SRINGTENING
PRRMF   SU VISIEO    OFWLIFIEN    DISTRIBUIIU   ItADINB    ASUSE I                  SCHOOLS        MIERIALS       ----- -         RAINING CENTlRE       rE
1- IllVtSI£IEU CC191
A. 1EXl1lnnS                            -          -          164.0         3.924.1     300.0                                                                 -            40.0
B. CIVIL HERS                    56,230.0          -         ,1391.0         429.0      175.0               -         1.520.0               -           2539.0 8e0.0
C. EIUIPEN                              -      SU.0           123.0           396.3     640.0           111.0           3120.0              -400.0                        550.0              123.0
P. FUIIIUE                       12.603.4       50.0          375.0              -      110.0                         2s025.6                             197.0            13.0               62.0
E. VENICLES MS VAN PARTS                -      020.0          164.0           164.0     42.0                -               -               -                 -               -              164.0
F. TEACIE  LUF6AD16-                                 -                            -   1,000.0               -               -               -                 -               -
S. IteCHiE    ASSISIME                 -          -           978.2              -         -         2309.2                -               -                 -         1,476.0           3W542.4
H. NlUlUR SIIV1tES                      -      56.3           107.5           329.8         -               -               -               -             2030                -                 -
1. FEILIIOSHIIS                        -           -          329.0          574.0                      369.0                                                 -           615.0             738.0
J. SINIES                               -          -              -              -          -               -                -              -                 -               -           2s050.0
Total IWSTlIEII CDSTS               180.4    2e279.3           3446.7         5,807.3   2s717.0          2,669.2         3.861.6          .w52.0           3.320.0         3,534.0           6o679.4
II. RtCUIEII COS1S
A. WPRATING COSTS                      -    16s99.            57.4               -      S3.3               -               -                                 -               -              238.0
B. IINWI    STAF                       -    1,-23.0              -               -         -               -               - 
C. SEIIR                               -          -           J5.0               -   4.200.0           894.0               -               -                 -               -
total Kamm  COSTS                          -    3,022.8          132.4               -   4o253.3           m.0                 -               -                 -               -             230.0
iotl &m1E  COSS.                     68d3.4    5.302.0          3,579.1         5,807.3   6s970.3         3.763.2          356S5.6        3592.0            3,329.0         36514.0           6,917.4
FPmical Cmti n         its         691113.U      530.2         357.9           580.7     67.0            376.3            33.6           358.2             332.0           353.4              69N.7
Pries Cwtirmcwtn                  21i76U.4   13360.0           499.o           922.2   1.645.9           711.9           615u7           79.1              49f.5           510.6            3,295.6
lotal PFRICt COSTS                   970490.7    7,192.2        4436.0          7.210.2   9,313.1         4,951.3         4,867.9         4.79-3            4.139.3         4I399.0           9S904.7
Foreimt Exdch                     52,745.8    2,755.7        3.490.2         M6894.6    2165.7         3.557.4         3h064.9         4,077.3           2,871.6         4,000.0           17543.9
teiti 24. 1990 14:38
ri
co
I 'if



T0E G68
EMOTIION SECITO FPPCI
SUIIHR 1CONS CSIS SullA0
tltasls ~  ~     ~     swm itcmmn wUsi snwai
II3ALASIS 1001)                             11354 100
2 Total                                     lota,
2 Foreign  Base                          2 Foretin Base
Local   Fomi0   Total   Echacb   Costs   Local Foreign  lotal  Erch           Co:ts
1. INESIII    COSTS
A. TEXTBOO6S                        -  9010.1  B.010.1        100       6       -   976.8   976.8        100      6
D. CIVIL MORICS               29.374.4 33,76.7 63,161.0        53      49 3,582.2  4,120.3  7,702.6      53      49
C. EWIPIENT                         -  3,657.9  3.657.9        100      3       -   446.1   446.1        100      3
D. FIIRNITURE                  3,097.4  12,399.6  15.487.0     80      12   377.7  1.510.9  1.899.7       80     12
E. VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS         -  2665.0  2,665.0         100      2       -   325.0   325.0        100      2
F. TEACER UPRD1IN                800.0    200.0  1I000.0       20       1    97.6    24.4   122.0        20       1
S. IECNIIICAL ASSISTNICE            - 170739.6 17,739.6       100      14       - 2163.4 2163.4          100     14
H. VOLUIITEER SERVICES           362.0    844.6  120.6.6       70       1    44.1   103.0   147.1        ?0       I
1. FELLCUSIS                        -  2706.0  2#706.0        100       2       -   330.0   330.0       100       2
J. STUDIES                      615.0  1.435.0  2.050.0        70       2    75.0   175.0   250.0        70       2
lotal INVESIIIET COSTS          34,248.7 83.434.3 117,683.1       71     91 43176.7 10,174.9 149351.6       71      91
Pmiszcal Cmotuigncfes          3,424.9  S,343.4  11,768.3      71       9   417.7  1,017.5  1,435.2       71      9
Price Contingencies           13s664.0  15.171.5 28,935.S      53      22 1,666.3 1,850.2  3,516.5        53     22
Total INCUDINS COKTINUENCIES    51,337.6 106,949.3 158,296.9      68    123 6,260.7 13,042.6 19,303.3       68    123
II. RECIRRENT COsTs
A. OPERATINS COSTS            2,653.6    294.8  29949.5       10       2   323.6    36.0   359.6        10       2
P. INCRENATL STAFF            3.183.0       -  3.193.0         -      2   398.2        -   388.2         -       2
C. SEN1115                    S,169.0        -  5P169.0        -       4   630.4       -   630.4         -       4
lotal 9EQT COSTS                11,005.6    294.8  11,300.5       3       9  1,342.1    36.0 1,379.1         3      9
P1,iral Contin iensis          1,100.6    29.5  1,130.0         3      1   134.2      3.6   137.8         3      1
Price Continsgencs            3,451.4     62.4  3r513.8         2      3   420.9      7.6   428.5         2      3
Total INCLUDING CUNETINIENCIES  15.557.5    386.7 159"4.3          2     12 1,897.3    47.2 1944.4          2     12
======   ==:==: =======  =:=:============:==::== ::  --=-:=  =:=: == =====-
Total BASELINE COSIS             45254.3 93,729.2 12O993.5         65    100 5.518.8 109210.9 15r729.7       65    10O
Plhssacal Corti,r.ersies        4#525.4  8,372.9  12899.4      65      10   551.9  1,021.1  1,573.0      65      t0
Price Contingencies            17,115.4  15,233.9 329349.3      47    25  2,097.2 l.957.9 3,945.0         47      25
Total PRO.CT COSTS               66895.2 1079336.0 174,231.2       62    135 8.157.9 13,089.8 21,247.?       62    135
Artil 24, 199f  14138



ElilS  ouwlt a t
Ftojet Et_C nts ba It
qualasts,.00)
Ise Costs                                 Total
0191  91mn2    92193   9394   9495  9n/96   M9I    DIfSIS  3     0o0)
A. PRImWY SCiIIKM  IIWtWEIl   MI 6     ,a'
I.   33LA 06.  CIIR1CII
,mSpnci [hR 'M9m                                                 264.0  70730.4 1236l.3 1201t.8 MUMt   12110.168.6 329.   6t83.4        .3943.
ARAtL50     SWP91513                                            M35.1  2,254.1   541.1   541.1   541.1   541.1   518.5   5.302.0         64.4
Sub-lotal UCAS58   C4S1TR3IS3                                       6.1 98.5 1270.9 12709.9 62.7|9 1207".9 129687.3  74,140.4   9.041.5
2. Cttflt3Cil FP9¶ION/fMW 3S3UN TER,S
CWm9t32t11  OEOlFWlOIII                                           194.7  I,430.9  1.519.6   212.5   205.0     8.2     t.2   3MR19.1      436.5
Pill9. POCWtIIP An OSlSTRINllEI                                 164.0 l.29.6 2.2913.2 1.10.3   330.1          -        -   53807.3      1e3.2
Su-1Dtal CURR11IMtt REVISI!I'DIIS10U IEIIODDS                       358.7 3,260.5 3312.1 1352.3   5t5.1         8.2      t.2    93536.4  13144.7
3. IE(C1R  "APING                                                 1,016.1 2.M.2  1.04.2  141t.2  106.2    5t21.2         8.2  6tWO.3       830.0
4. 6TAIMNATIIS M  CO £MTIUIJ  SESSNIIS                                  - 1.53.7 1,133.7  I099.2   179.8   173.8           -   3,763.2      rJ.9
9*-total FRI9Fr SCIMrn  IOFNEV3 Me t   3  SI3                        2.003.9 16471.9 16874.6 16b0.I 1424,522.03,13425.1 12703.7  94.260.2  11..51
P. WESJREIU'1016 MO k.fmfWlfw OF SECcI   ElA13
3. Pf9UWt ING mmiioutirriis or "IMFUlS                                  - II552.I  1.S52LM    330.0   30.0        -        -   35.6    tn.
2. crut.ICull Kt£lSo10 MW  P      er'11SIN OF 3S3PiJCTISn   rtER11.S    -            35.  1,793.0  3,432.3        -        -   3532.0       436.8
S*-Total RESVU1t1E1N53AN MIS   3   IP N OF SECOOflD t3ATION                - 3,552.3  1.911.0  2,173.0 3.12.3         -            74474       93.g 
C. S13E15IIG1131W   STILLS IRAINING
1. SW 1ti6NI1  SMIM IECHNIICA  IR411111tS IUSIlUltE    ------           -    42.6 2.45.4          -       -       -        -   3.323.0      0e.9
2. SIREWG1IIIIRI  PtlU  STNtt ILL 1 IS CEhII                            -   905.0 1.932.0   697.0         -                     3,-34.0     436.0
------~~~~~-  - -- - - -_--  -- _- - --- _- -__-_
Sub-total SI6I1I3Gl    91ttSS TR*AININ                                     - 12747.6  4,417.4   67.0         -       -       -   6362.09    836.0
N. 1I35 1IIO311td. I1ELUN
1. RUIURIJATION MO STREISINITIUI OE                              6947.6 13.86.9   933.5   232.1   642.3   343.8  831.9    6937.4          843.6
2. SI.Is    frfl5 M00.XCI IFItE'INTAtION Ullt3 CAPWAL3  -----     3192.6  4.s6.3  3,639.4  1493.11  605.4   233.4   323.4  133496.3   3.40.1
---   ---   --------   -------~~- -----     -- -   -- --- - -- --   ---- -    _   -   ----
S.0b-lotal 10St1UTO14tI F1IUFLMEP                                    5,239.7 5,513.2 4*572.9  1.27.9  1.247.5  1.077.2  1.063.3  20.433.7   2,W.3
lotal  ItIOF COS1S                                                     7,143.6 25.155.5 29725.9 20. 0 27,582.3 14.02.3 ;3;769.0  128#933.5  %5#7.1.7
lI,.nwal Conti.9pmes                                                  714.4 2.585.6  2.962.6  20.05.5  1750.2  1w30.2  1,376.9  32,89. 4    1    O.0
P ac  CorEtm..4,sc,s                                                  216.6 2.493.5  5M015.0 5,215.4 6,139.6 *343.2 6,97.9  32349.31   3.45.0
total PROJIt COSTS                                                     S.074,5 30,92.3 37.603,5 27,13.9 25;460.2 22;29M.3 22.143.8  174231.2  ?1247.7
fortiPn E rhw                                                       6.4612.5 22t66.S 25.365.3 136,72.4 I3J553.2 311,036.6 II23.,3  107,33.4  13.07.
April 24, I9  14:30
21
x
X
0>
U        I. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    i-il,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



[MOTC*ION SECTOR lULEC
Farmna.e1 Pimao bs ProAct Cgmntas
fussE ccM)
IDA           CIUMITY        LOICAL CnOIUDII   6ovemm,-t       Iota!                    Local
---- --- ----  -- --- ---- --- -  -- --    -- ----   -- ---- ---   -- ---- --- --  ExcI.  Duties   11
AmoigI   2  ~~mm~t   2      Ammulil   2   howt  2    Mmmt   I   For. fzch.  tame)   lazes
A. 711KM? SOICEI IIFIOWNCN  AND EtAISION
1. CLMSUOUR CONSTRIETIEN
CONSIRUICTILN 11O610*                                               7,0716.9  59.5   1e904.8   16.0   2.484.3  20.9   4123.1  3.6  31*089.1 56.0    6,432.4  5,456.7-
REGIONAL SUPERVISION                                                  641.5  73.1         -                        - 235.6 26.9    877.1  4.1           336.1   541.0-
Sub-Totla  MASSRO COrSTRUCTIM~                                         7,719.4  60.5   1,904.9   14.9   2,4S4.3  19.5   658.6 5.2  120766.2  60.t    69769.5 5,997.7-
2. CMIMCIItM REVISIDN/PROVISJIG TEXTINI
CIIIICILIN DEVELOPNENI                                                500.4  94.0         -                  -    -    32.5  6.0    541.0  2.5          425.6   115.3-
TEXTBOOIF. PROINETIEN AND DISTRIBUTION                               972.9  99.3          -                  -    -       6.5  0.7    979.3  4.1        840.8    38.5-
Sub-Total CU91113a.3M REUISION/PROTIISION TEXTBOOS                     3e391.2  97.3         -                  -     -    39.0  2.7  1,420.3  6.7       1 #266.4   153.8--J
3. HEAMI  IN6AOINB                                                     IP130.0  99.5         -       --               -      5.6  0.5   16135.7  5.3       264.1   871.6 
4. EXMINIATIONS ANO CUITINNJ  ASSSNENI                                  591.6 100.0                           -     - -                   91.6  2.8        433.8   157.8-
-- -- -- --                          ------  --       - --   -- -- --     - -    -- - - - -- - -  - -- -
Sub-Total PRIflM  SOO31  IIERCWENT WI  EVANSION                          10t821.3  68.0   1,904.8   12.0   2,414.3  15.6   703.4  4.4  15,913.9  74.9    89732'.9  7,191.0 
a KtSTRMUCflINB AND IMF OWENT OF SECONMI EC4EATION
1. REMODELING AND EmntPPNS OF K10LE SOULS                                   -     -      509.7   95.7           -     -    94.9 14.3    393.6  2.9         4319.9   153,9 
2. CURPJCIA.UMNREVISION AND PUWISION OF INSTRUCTIONW. rATERIALS                    -     576.7  300.0                 -        -    -    576.7  2.7        576.7        --
Sub-Total RESTRIJTUWIN9 AND 1IftPROENENT OF SEC01MWI EIUMATION                  -    - 11,085.5   912.7            -            4.9  1.3  3,70.4  5.5    1,036.6   153.8 
C. STRtENBTIENING SKILLS TRAINING
1. STRENGTHENIING SANDIA TECHNICAL TRAININB INGIITIHE     -----         462.8  91.2          -         -     -             44.5 9.8    507.2  2.4          350.2   157.0 
2. 5JRF 4EN01 INNG WAAL11 SP-ILL TRAINING CENTRE                        523.0  97.5                                         1       3.3 2.5    536.3  2.5  499.9    47.6 
Sub-Total STREINTIENINB SI.ILLS TRAINING                                    985,8  94.5-                           -     -    57.9  5.5    44.041,   4.9      939.0   204.6 
P. 1NSTIJIIIIONAi MELWLOENT
1. REORGANIZATIOh MD1 SMTREUTENIN9 OM                                 1,084.1  99.9                                         1.9  0.2  ItU95.9  5.1         920. 0    165.9 
2. SIPENGIHENING PP.OACI IIIPLEKENTATION NII0 EAPA91LITI    1---        72r7.4  94.9                 --               -   306.6 15.1  20,034.0  9.6    l.591.3   452.6 
Sub-Total INSTIIUTIONA  IWALOPMENT                                        2t931.5  90.1         -       --               - 308.4  9.9  3,119.9  14.7    2,303.3   618.6 
I. '.1 I''.N~~~~~~~~~~~aqtt ~~~14*618.6  68.8   2,990.3   14.1   2,943.3  11.7  1,354.5  5.4  21*247.7 100.0   13309.9.8 9157.9                                    -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---                                                                    ---7   -r
-- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - ---.- - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- -    - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Disbwcsemst Profile
Profile: 
*isburen.n                   _____________
-~~~-'~~~~~~~~~--   Country
IDA Flecal yers  B  Quertsr        Cusulntive      Project All Sector
and Quarters      (MI 11l Ion)    (USIlMl II Ion)     (3)       (3)
Iool       I               *.4            8.4         n          e
2              e.g             .l         53        n3
s              5.8             1.9        73         '3
4              0.8            1.3         ex         Ss
Im         1               9.1            2.9        143       i1 ts
2              9.7            2.1        I116       173   s
*.7            3.4       ans        213   c oU
4              0.7            4.1        28N        263   c
198     1               C.S            4.9        543        323   u Li
2              9.3            1.7        89         3us   0
28             e.g            9.         453        483      3A
4              e.g            ?.         so-        4113
1944       a               9.             7.3       5s3         623 4J
2              9.5            S.8        573        s5o   .
5          9~~      ~     ~~.5  6.8  am         an                                                                                  0 I  C
4              41.4           9.8        045        343 
1096       1               9.5            9.2        G7I        793
2              9.5           14.8        713        7e6
3              9.5           19.6        743        o        L2
4              9.5           11.8        771        343
19se       I .8                         11.8       I13         373      LI
2              9.3           12.8        343        9ox
a              9.4           it. 7       373        93                                           *      .   ....           
4              0.4           181.1       EU                     hu        ri         u          u        u           s       t
1$~~~~~~~~~~~~i                     im                  im 9";n . .s .is I;            1_ w
1997       1               0.4           18.5        925        963                                     PI -ai Years
2              0.4           18.9        95l3      199
4              0.4           14.8       1x91                       Assuming credit effectiveness during the first quarter
of 1991.
8:\1DUSES.11Ki (OA)                                                                         x = Regional Sector Profile
a = Estimated Projecr Disbursement Profile
z
- U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3-23
-129 -                              Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   Bank Supervision Input
The staff input indicated in              project agencies, will be
the table below is in                     held normally in mid-April of
addition to the regular                   each year.  Tbese meetings
supervision needs for the                will be chaired by the
revi"w of progress reports,              Permar.ent Secretary, Ministry
procurement and disbursement              of Education.  A formal mid-
actions, correspondence, etc.             term project review will be
(estimated to require four               held in April 1994.
staff-weeks per year during
the project implementation           (c)  The Project Implementation
period).                                  Unit will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for
2.  Borrower's Contribution to                 IDA supervision missions, and
Supervision                               for providing information
required by missions.
(a)  Progress Reports are to be                Missions will normally be
submitted semi-annually, at               accompanied by the PIU
the end of April and October              Director or his deputy.
of each year; the MOE's Pro-
ject Implementation Unit will        (d) Mission briefing meetings on
coordinate report prepara-                arrival, and wrap-up meetings
tion by the various agencies.            will normally be chaired by
the Permanent Secretary,
(b)  Project monitoring and                   Ministry of Finance and
evaluation will be the                    Trade, with the participation
responsibility of the MOE,               of the Permanent Secretary,
through its Senior Management            Ministry of Education, and
Team.  Joint IDA-Government               representatives of the PIU
review meetings, with the                 and the project agencies.
participation of the various



ANNEX 3-23
- 130 -                  Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.         Activity                  Expected               Staff Input
Dates                                     Skill                   (Staff-Weeks)
(month/year)                              Requirements
9/90      Project Launch                  Economist/Planner             5
Workshop                        Education
Procurement
Disbursement
12/90     First Supervision Mission       Econ/Planner                  3
(to review start-up,           Architect
organizational arrangements   Education
and school construction
program)
4/91      Joint Progress Review           Econ/Planner                  5
(first annual review of        Architect
project implementation,        Education
9/91      Supervision Mission             Educator                      4
(to review physical            Architect
implementation and
progress in achieving
educational objectives).
1992      Two missions per year (as in 1991)                           8
1993      Two mission, per year (as in 1991)                            8
4/94      Joint IDA-Govt. mid-term review                              4
9/94      Regular supervision mission                                  4
1995      Two missions per year (as in 1991)                           8
1996      Two missions per year (as in 1991)                           8
4/97      Final joint progress review I Economist/Planner              4
9/97      Completion Mission            ] Educator                     6
] Architect



ISRD 2224
IS raOeooo p 0oTooVl                                      o7i     ,Sb-                    /'  N             MAURITANIA
~~00T00dOO  90100 10            SENEGAL    V~
'" / \ S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E                                                                                     N      E             G          A                                                                                                  TTMLI-__  ,,._<\
coooooa  to dooo,ooo     GAMTBIA
\FA                 ators            GUINEA        ' G
T'AO'O'TO 100 AaI 0101.   BISSAU1    /         A I N E A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.  & mdfRi,                                                                              N'                                                                                                                                  LE~\9mDnb{ONE      
. jo K b o  \,  sUlerman   9   \                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'LlSElRIA j   OK
.< . . . . . . . . . ..doRT   ..                                                                                                  - - -  -                    N                                                                                         SET PC
N    0                 ,-V,      Nr.10                                              o /                                                   '                                                              -                             -- O&tcbto
K° -nJt   /                                                                                 /                                              Zla   Divrsion heodquoders                                               -~~~~~~~~~ Ron
X MlilS O iV = 30 .-*-*~~~~~~~~~RInhobonIolbou1ndor                                                                                    'iesTt              Eora  N                                                                                         /  IEPGA  )ooL
B   AZfvf wiv k .tRCH 19.
~~~So6oL  I  90001011  'MA  ,AT;  T~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.- 
91~ ~  ~ ~ ~~T,                                         L    0                                     I    B          N                                                                                                                                                                                   K It . .  ogtwooOC
L..m                    10A.d..,                                                                                                            THE GAMBIA ,  ALoo
Crobd-                                                                                                                      EDUCATOIoo  otkoo?oo~ tON   SECORko             PROJECT~'
BOkA       Roop d,.d) nk'                                                                                                                                                                                   Rgio.- )bod.hsg  nTo0ko'o             '9I1
Tr ck                                    C icul$ .D.4op/0C-t.,
Foo'o8~~~164~~~000  '~~.frood4'4  oSo  goAt  000M    %olA,,e    /   ,r*\\                                                                             ____ IRi           L    ANN t6   S W-h..
Solon.    .                                                                                     GOnAOL..o*5o100 '~~~~.. .. ..                                                             E          BE-ioi-   C-611                                                      Ij       Gnoo
A~~~¶& Wf   o k   )   (  N   -   --     I                                                                                                                                                              $ O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0o0o Ot~~~~~~~~~~Ot0sA  -E   EA 
A¶do                                                 0                                                                            DCAINSETRPOJC                                                        60000. 's 
Sooroo?'  Bnikomo    @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,  1,  ~~~~~~~~' ,..>orOx,xrflb  I                                                                                                                                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH  9



