Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19269
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TEE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT No. 2142-GM)
June 29, 1999
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Dalasi
Appraisal in June 1989:       US$ 1.00 = D 8.10
Closing in December 1998: US$ 1.00 =D1O.60
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Im   =     1.09 yd
I sq.m= 10.76 sq.ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AATG           -  Action Aid The Gambia
APL            -  Adaptable Project Lending
BSC            -  Banjul Skills Center
BSTC           -  Basic Teachers Certificate
BPMRU          -  Book Production, Materials and Resources Unit
B.S.               Bachelor of Science
CCF            -  Christian Children's Fund
CIDA           -  Canadian International Development Agency
CRDC           -  Curriculum Research Development Centre
CRS            -  Catholic Relief Services
DOSE           -  Department of State for Education (previously MOE)
ECCD           -  Early Childhood Care and Development
EFA            -  Education for All
EU             -  European Union (Previously called EEC)
GAMWORKS   -  Gambia Agency for Implementation of the Public Works
GTU            -  Gambia Teachers Union
GTTI           -  Gambia Technical Training Institute
FIOH           -  Future In Our Hands
HND            -  Higher National Diploma
MSLCE          -  Middle School Leaving Certificate Examination
MOE            -  Ministry of Education (presently called DOSE)
PCU            -  Project Coordinating Unit
PIU            -  Project Implementation Unit
PRA            -  Participatory Rural Appraisal
PTA            -  Parent-Teachers Association
PTC            -  Primary Teachers Certificate
PTR            -  Pupil Teacher Ratio
PSLCE          -  Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination
RIFT           -  Remedial Initiative for Female Teachers
TANGO          -  The Association of Non Governmental Organizations
TBFC           -  Text Book Fund Coordinator
TBRF           -  Text Book Revolving Fund
UNICEF         -  United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA          -  United Nations Fund for Population and Activities
UQT            -  Unqualified Teachers
VSO            -  Voluntary Services Overseas
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager                   Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader                      Alassane Diawara



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 2142-GM)
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..............................................4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................5
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................5
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................................6
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................6
H. FUTURE OPERATION ..............................................7
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..............................................7
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project linplementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
Map: IBRD 22248
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2142-GM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector Project in
The Gambia, for which Credit 2142 in the amount of SDR 11.3 million (US$14.6 million
equivalent) was approved on May 24, 1990 and made effective on February 14, 1991.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998. It was fully disbursed, and the last
disbursement took place on January 20, 1999. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the
European Union (EU).
The ICR was prepared by Alassane Diawara, Task Manager (AFMSN); Aissa Chipkaou,
Task Assistant (AFTH2), with input from former Task Manager Rosemary Bellew (AFTH3). It
was reviewed by Mahmood A. Ayub, Country Director for The Gambia (AFC 14); Nicholas
Burnett, Sector Manager, Robert Prouty, Cluster Leader, and Myrina McCullough, Program
Assistant (AFTH2).
The ICR is based on information gathered during the final supervision mission
(December 8, 1998) and on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to its
preparation by providing comments on the draft ICR prepared during the final supervision
mission, and by preparing its own evaluation which is in Appendix B. The ICR was sent to the
Borrower for comments on April 7,1999.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 2142-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.   IDA's strategy in The Gambia supports three main objectives: (a) to establish a macroeconomic
and private sector environment conducive to economic growth; (b) to rehabilitate and develop
infrastructure, and (c) to improve basic social services, particularly for women and the poor.
2.    The principal instruments used in supporting IDA objectives in the country have been adjustment
operations (Structural Adjustment Credits I and II), buttressed by sector-based rehabilitation and
investment projects. As of April 30, 1999, IDA had approved 25 projects for The Gambia for a total of
about US$224.8 million, with an undisbursed amount of about US$53 million. The portfolio in April
1999 consisted of four projects: Environment Management Capacity Building, Participatory
Health/Population/Nutrition, Third Education and the Poverty Alleviation and Municipal Development.
The Third Education Project which was approved by the Board on September 10, 1999, became effective
on March 22, 1999; also the Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project, approved on March 16,
1999, is expected to become effective before the end of FY99.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The principal objective of the project was to increase access to, and improve
the quality and efficiency of, education in a sustainable, cost-effective manner. Specifically, the project
objectives were to: (a) expand and improve the quality of primary education; (b) restructure and improve
the quality of secondary education; (c) strengthen the skills training programs; and (d) reinforce the
Ministry of Education's planning and management capacities.
4.    Project Description and Components. These objectives were to be achieved through a series of
policy measures and an investment program. The package of policy measures included:
* Raising the primary pupil:teacher ratio from 30:1 to 45:1 by 2003 by consolidating schools,
introducing double-shift and multi-grade teaching, and retraining specialist teachers;
* Creating a more equitable salary structure for primary teachers;
* Reallocating Government budgetary resources to the education sector by increasing education's share
of the Government budget from 20.5% in 1989/90 to 22.4% by 1997;
* Increasing annual expenditure on primary education by 6% in real terms, holding other sub-sectors at
1-3%;
* Increasing user fees in secondary schools, providing support to madrassas, and introducing a levy for
vocational and technical education;
* Lowering the school entry age, increasing the proportion of female trainee teachers to at least 30%,
eliminating sexual bias in textbooks, developing gender awareness training for teachers, encouraging



ii
girls to enroll in science, math and technical courses, and incorporating famnily life education into
school curricula; and
Restructuring secondary education while phasing out technical schools.
5.    The Investment Component. The Project included 4 components with 10 sub-components, viz:
(a) expand and improve the quality of primary education; (b) restructure and improve the quality of
secondary education; (c) strengthen skills training; (d) strengthen key sectoral institutions.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. For the most part, the project's objectives were clear, realistic and
important for the country. They remained unchanged throughout implementation. A mid-term review in
May-June 1994 concluded that no major adjustments to the scope and content of the project were
necessary. However, no clear target performance indicators or implementation plans were associated with
the objectives at the start of the project.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
7.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The objectives of the project were
satisfactorily achieved in most areas. The achievement of policy measures was partial.
8.    Primary enrollment grew by an average 8% per year from 1990. Girls' education was achieved
partially though with much delay because activities and strategies had to be defined. Girls' enrollment in
primary school increased from 40% in 1989/90 to 44% in 1997.
9.    Restructuring of the secondary education system was substantially achieved. About 400,000 text
books were published, purchased, and delivered to schools under the textbook rental scheme.
Achievement of quality improvements was marginally satisfactory.
10.   On the whole, project achievements are likely to be sustained. Demand for education is high, and
the policy framework for the next 10 years builds on the achievements and lessons learned from this
project. For example, the framework places an emphasis on infrastructure maintenance to sustain the
physical investments, lowers the cost of education, particularly for girls, delegates part of the school
building program to NGOs so as to combine benefits provided by community participation with
appropriate management, and continues the policy priorities to improve resource use.
11.   Summary of Costs. Total project cost was estimated at US$ 21.2 million. IDA financed 69%
(US$ 14.6 million). The EU contributed US$ 3.0 million, communities US$2.5 million, and Government
US$1.1 million (figures may not add up do to rounding).
12.  Implementation Schedule. All project activities were completed within the timeframe of the
project with the exception of the equipment for the Banjul Skills Center (BSC). The project was extended
twice, primarily to allow funding for the preparation activities of the follow-up project.
13.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Factors which positively influenced
project implementation included: (a) Government's strong commitment to develop the education sector;
(b) budgetary allocations, available counterpart funds, and good accounting and disbursement practices;
(c) efforts made in most cases to recruit competent and committed staff; (d) the comprehensive policy
framework adopted as national policy, which helped maintain a common framework and direction during
the many periods of staff changes and (e) flexibility on the part of IDA. Factors which negatively
affected the project included: (a) the unanticipated difficulty of coordinating available community labor
with the procurement and delivery of materials to the various sites; (b) the national policy of low



iii
threshold for tender board review (D10,000 equivalent to US$1,000), which delayed small local purchases
of goods and services; and (c) the change in Government in July 1994 which introduced new personnel in
the MOE with the ensuing loss of institutional memory and changes in operating procedures.
14.   Assessment of the Bank's Performance. The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory.
Project supervision and follow up by the Bank was regular and thorough. Progress of project
implementation was well-documented and reported by Bank missions to both Government and Bank
officials. Bank disbursements were very prompt, and at no time were problems encountered by the
borrower in this regard.
15.   Relations with the MOE (now DOSE) and the co-financiers were excellent throughout.
16.   Assessment of Borrower's Performance. The level of Government involvement in the
preparation of the project was satisfactory. Relevant personnel were consulted. However, beneficiary
input was inadequate, resulting in poor planning of its implementation. The Project Management Unit
(PMU) satisfactorily administered, managed and coordinated the project's activities. Detailed progress
reports were submitted to the Bank as regularly as expected. The Government financial contribution was
paid regularly. One issue that remained a serious concern was the operation and maintenance of the
Textbook Revolving Fund. Starting off impressively, the Fund later suffered from poor management,
resulting in the exhaustion of the healthy reserves it had generated in the first few years of its
establishment.
17.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The overall project outcome is satisfactory. It provided
inputs as planned. The objective of the primary school building program was achieved, increasing seats
for primary school students throughout the country. Student enrollment has increased, exceeding
projected figures. Primary school curricula have been revised and new ones designed for middle schools.
Appropriate instructional materials were developed, produced, and distributed in the school system.
Administrative and managerial capacity has improved at central and divisional/regional levels. The
elimination of unqualified teachers from the system was not realized however. Multi-grade and double-
shift teaching as a means of saving costs, improving efficiency, and enhancing student achievement has
been limited in scope and has not been taken seriously as a sector policy.
SUMMARY OF FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
18.   Future Operation and Sustainability. A more comprehensive Third Education Sector project
seeking to consolidate and build on what has been achieved to date was approved by IDA's Board in
September 1998. It became effective in March, 1999. The new project, which was the first Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) in the Africa Region, will ensure sufficient numbers of well-qualified teachers,
increase access through the classroom construction program, expand opportunities and strategies to
increase girls enrollment, and expand vocational and technical training.
19.   Lessons Learned. Key lessons learned during project implementation and incorporated into the
new Third Education Project:
* The financial analyses must not only assess the budgetary impact of enrollment, but the efficient use
of physical and human resources. Similarly they must analyze the budgetary impact of subsidies,
because subsidies make some programs unsustainable on a larger scale (i.e. the subsidization of
teacher upgrading, school bus services, payment of examination fees, school lunch programs).



iv
* It was difficult to coordinate community volunteer labor with the supply of materials. Future
education projects that involve classroom construction should consider NGO involvement to organize
community labor contributions through contract agreements with the DOSE.
* The use of large national contractors for small contracts for classroom construction throughout the
country gave mixed results. Future similar projects should allow the option of using a Contract
Management Agency, which would be better able to manage numerous small contracts.
* Thorough and sustained sensitization of parents on the double-shift system is required for public
acceptance and appreciation of the cost-effectiveness of these new dimensions of the education
system. An effective communication strategy with teachers and beneficiaries/communities is needed
to prevent inappropriate strategies or reversals in policy decisions.
*  Capacity building has had limited success. Capacity was narrowly perceived as a shortage of skills
and was therefore addressed only by the borrowing of skills through technical assistance and by
training. Even this limited capacity building did not work well: long term technical assistants were
underutilized and training was not based on a strategy for sector improvement or on identified
priorities and was, therefore, often ad hoc. Capacity building needs to be seen as a broad-based
participatory endeavor, in which in stakeholders and beneficiaries learn to maintain project activities.
*  The National Tender Board should receive training related to World Bank procurement methods.
•  The existence of a national education policy is important in maintaining continuity throughout
implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2142-GM)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
I .    The principal objective of the project was to increase access to and improve the quality and
efficiency of education in a sustainable, cost effective manner. Specifically, the project objectives were
(a) to expand and improve the quality of primary education; (b) to restructure and improve the quality of
secondary education; (c) to strengthen the skills training programs; and (d) to reinforce the Ministry of
Education's planning and management capacities. The project assisted the Government in implementing
a specific investment program supported by reform in sectoral policies.
2.    The package of policy measures supported by the project were designed to (a) improve efficiency
and effectiveness in the use of sector resources; (b) promote development of private initiatives and
financing in education; (c) increase opportunities for girls; and (d) improve quality and cost-effectiveness
of the secondary education system.
These objectives were to be achieved through a series of 10 policy measures and an investment program.
The package of policy measures included:
Raising the primary pupil:teacher ratio from 30:1 to 45:1 by 2003 by consolidating schools,
introducing double-shift and multi-grade teaching, and retraining specialist teachers;
Creating a more equitable salary structure for primary teachers;
- Reallocating Government budgetary resources to the education sector by increasing education's share
of the Government budget from 20.5% in 1989/90 to 22.4% in 1997;
* Increasing annual expenditure on primary education by 6% in real terms, holding others sub-sector at
1-3%;
* Increasing user fees in secondary schools, providing support to madrassas, and introducing a levy for
vocational and technical education;
* Lowering the school entry age, increasing the proportion of female trainee teachers to at least 30%,
eliminating sexual bias in textbooks, developing gender awareness training for teachers, encouraging
girls to enroll in science, math and technical courses, and incorporating family life education into
school curricula; and
* Restructuring secondary education while phasing out technical schools.
3.    The investment component included 4 components with 10 sub-components, viz:
(a) Expand and improve the quality of primary education: (i) increase enrollment by creating 30,000
places by constructing 600 classrooms and renovating 200, and 8,000 places by introducing double-shift
and multigrade teaching; (ii) develop revised syllabi; (iii) publish and provide about 400,000 revised
textbooks and teacher guides for a student:book ratio of 2:1, and introduce a textbook rental system; (iv)



-2-
upgrade about 1,200 unqualified teachers; and (v) increase the intake capacity of pre-service training to
100.
(b) 'Restructuring and improving the quality of secondary education: (i) convert the secondary school
system into a unified system of middle and secondary school (3 years each) and convert 17 technical
secondary schools into lower secondary (middle) schools, equipping them with science teaching facilities;
and (ii) revise middle school syllabi and books and provide about 100,000 textbooks and teacher guides.
(c) Strengthening skills training: establish a National Council for Technical Education and Vocational
Training (NCTEVT) with employer and worker representatives, improve program content and training
facilities at the Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI) and the Banjul Skills Center (BSC), and
introduce training levies in 1991/92.
(d) Strengthening key sectoral institutions: (i) establish a new administrative structure, (ii) strengthen
educational planning and management capacities of the Ministry of Education (MOE), and (iii) introduce
syllabus-based local exams for primary and middle school completion, continuous assessment for gr. 1-9,
and develop a feedback mechanism to monitor student performance.
4.    Total project cost was estimated at US$ 21.2 million. IDA financed 69% (US$ 14.6 million). The
EU contributed US$ 3.0 million, Communities US$2.5 million, and Government US$1.1 million.
5.    Evaluation of Objectives. For the most part, the project's objectives were clear, realistic and
important for the country. They remained unchanged throughout implementation. A mid-term review in
May-June 1994 concluded that no major adjustments to the scope and content of the project were
necessary. It should be noted, however, that in some cases neither performance indicators relative to the
objectives nor implementation plans were identified at the start of the project. This was particularly true
for policy measures (double-shift and multigrade teaching, girl's education), and particularly those not
backed up by any investment (girl's education, promotion of private sector, training levy). This
contributed to a slower start up and implementation in these areas.
6.   In retrospect, the overall level of risk that the project presented to Government was low. Although
the risk of achieving some objectives (increased cost recovery and double-shift teaching) may have been
higher, they were eventually accepted by parents and teachers. Initially, parents were confused by the
change, and teachers were made to work double shifts without adequate compensation. The system was
not fully ready for the transition when it occurred. There was no provision in the budget to give
incentives to teachers for their double efforts, and teachers threatened to leave. Government had to find
extrat funds to cover the additional costs of teachers' time.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    Objectives were partially achieved. The improved pupil-teacher ratio did not result in efficient
resouirce use because the MOE continued to over-recruit often unqualified teachers, and specialized
teachers (Koranic and home economics) were not re-trained. Promotion of private initiatives and
financing was partially achieved and cost recovery increased in primary and secondary schools. Support
to madrassas was only implemented in 5 pilot schools because most MOE senior officers claimed that
madrassas were not interested in the cost-recovery scheme. Information on this is conflicting. The
training levy was introduced, but the funds collected were deposited into the Treasury and never used to
fmance training.



- 3-
8.    Education expenditure - Education's share of Government recurrent expenditure increased to
about 22% by 1996/97. In real terms, the average annual growth rate was twice that expected, but the
sector budget allocations did not always correspond to the identified priorities.
9.    Girls' education was achieved partially and with much delay, mainly because activities and
strategies needed to be defined (except family life which was already under implementation with UN
support). Before 1995, female candidates for teacher training -- less than 10% -- did not increase as
expected because the Gambia College would not lower the entry qualifications which women often did
not meet. In 1995, funds were allocated to support a remedial program for women admitted with low
qualifications (RIFT). Since then, due to this very successful and cost-effective program, women's share
of enrollment in Gambia College has increased to 40%. Textbooks were revised to lower gender
stereotypes and bias, although they require further revision. A gender awareness module was introduced
in pre-service teacher training.
10    With the exception of sponsoring five girls a year to math camp in Ghana, little systematic effort
was made to encourage girls to enter math, science and technical subjects. Parallel to this, UNICEF
supported a sensitization campaign about the benefits of girls' education, but this endeavor was of little
success. UNICEF plus IDA projects built latrines for girls in school. Many consider that this latrine
program played an important role in reducing parent' reluctance to school their daughters. An IDA grant
supported research and training in participatory methods to identify the main barriers to girls' education.
The findings showed that the main barrier by far to both enrolling and remaining in school was the cost of
education. This was followed by the lack of access to middle school, teenage pregnancy, and early
marriage in the upper grades. The main impediment- cost- was not addressed by the program, and indeed
increased cost recovery worked against this objective. Girls share of enrollment increased from only 40%
to 44% in 1997.
11.   Expansion of primary education. Primary enrollment has grown by an average 8% a year since
1990. In 1996/97, 42,000 more students were enrolled than in 1990/91. This achievement greatly
surpassed the project objective to accommodate 38,000 additional students.
12.   Achievement of quality improvements was only marginally satisfactory. In fact there are no
mechanisms to evaluate it. The project defined the quality of education in terms of inputs -- mainly
textbooks and teacher training. Textbook publishing was largely kept to schedule, but fewer books were
revised than originally envisioned. A textbook rental system was introduced for grades 1-9. For the first
three years, sufficient books were delivered to schools in a timely manner, and about 85% of fees were
recovered. However, the textbook ratio of 2:1 was not achieved in many rural schools due to the inability
or unwillingness of parents to pay for books. Starting in about 1994, management deteriorated
significantly. Over-ordering of books and leakage along the chain depleted the revolving fund. In
addition, Government never deposited the funds intended to cover the cost of the marginal increase in
enrollment. At project end, the Government decided to provide text books free of charge at primary level
and to privatize the management of the textbooks rental system at secondary level. At least 1,200
uncertified teachers were upgraded to certificate level. Gambia College increased its intake capacity in
teacher training and now takes in 120 new students a year. Nonetheless, the proportion of uncertified
teachers in the system continues to increase due to the steep student enrollment growth relative to Gambia
College graduates, coupled with the inefficient use of existing teachers.
13.   Restructuring of the secondary education system was substantially achieved. Two three-year
cycles--middle school (grades 7-9) and senior secondary (grades 10-12)--were introduced in 1993. The
17 secondary technical schools were converted to middle schools, and science demonstration labs were
constructed. Curricula and books for the middle school were revised focusing on general education.



- 4-
About 400,000 textbooks were published, purchased, and delivered to schools under the textbook rental
scheme.
14.  In VET, achievement of the development objectives set up by the Government is largely
unsatisfactory. Although the NCTEVT was established in 1992 and the training levy consequently
created in 1994, the money collected was not used by the Ministry of Finance to finance vocational
training because the system for resource allocation was never developed or adopted by the Government.
Investrnents in the BSC, an annex of GTTI, were only completed in 1998 as a condition for the
effectiveness of the next credit. Reasons for the delay include: lack of interest of GTTI in taking it over,
and contractor default. Since management was shifted in 1989 to GTTI, the Institute used the facility to
provide remedial education to upgrade students to enter GTTI, rather than provide basic skills training in
the areas agreed. This situation was remedied in 1998 with the opening of 6 basic courses for about 20
students each with a cost-recovery of about 30%.
15.  Improved management and administration was satisfactorily achieved. A Sector Management
Team was established. Although it functioned irregularly, it was revived in 1996 and continues. The
result is better collaboration across divisions and better information flows. Training abroad for three
planners significantly improved the capacity of the planning unit. Technical assistance for planning was
also effective and helped to computerize education statistics which did not exist before. The Department's
ability to collect and maintain up-to-date and reliable educational data and statistics has improved
significantly. Coordination between the Planning Unit and the Project Management Unit has improved
since 1996 and is currently effective. Some amount of decentralization has been effected. Regional
offices have become less reliant on headquarters in terms of planning, decision making, and
administration at that level.
16.  In other areas, such as the architects in the construction program and the consultant for the
vocational training program, technical assistance was less effective. Technical assistants were often not
assigned counterparts and were not integrated into the units. Instead, they were assigned to a specific
tasks resulting in little transfer of competence.
17.   The performance of the PMU in managing project implementation was generally satisfactory with
two exceptions: accounting during the first year and procurement in the first two years. Recruitment by
Government of a national accountant was delayed and the person eventually appointed was a retired civil
servant, lacking necessary experience. Procurement matters were thus delayed for some months and
necessitated recourse to continued technical assistance. Since 1993, when Government of appointed a
competent accountant and hired a capable national procurement specialist, accounting and procurement
performance of the PMU improved to a satisfactory level.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   Factors which positively influenced project implementation included:
Government had a strong commitment to develop the education sector. This was reflected in
budgetary allocations, efforts made in most cases to recruit competent and committed staff, adequate
and available counterpart funds, good accounting and disbursement practices, and later good
procurement staff. The comprehensive policy framework. adopted as national policy, greatly helped
to maintain a common framework and direction during the many periods of staff changes.



- 5-
*  Frequent supervision missions in the early stages helped to improve the planning of project activities
and define those components which had no clear strategy, objective, or plan. Further, they helped to
maintain a policy dialogue so that activities remained in line with overall objectives.
*  The community participation embodied in the initial classroom construction strategy (1991-95) is
considered by the forner Directors within the MOE to have provided high visibility to the
Government's commitment to education and stimulated parents' response. The shift in the classroom
construction strategy from community labor to contracting out reduced the management burden on the
PMU.
* More generally, there was a flexibility on the part of IDA and Government to adjust strategies when
outcomes were not as expected as in the case of extra support for girls' education.
19.   Factors which negatively affected the project included:
*  The initial strategy for classroom construction, based on a combination of community labor and
delivery of materials procured by the MOE through ICB, encountered problems. Community
mobilization was satisfactory despite limited consultation. Three difficulties were encountered here.
The first concerned the seasonal availability of volunteer labor, the second concerned the logistical
difficulty of PMU delivery of materials to the various sites throughout the country, and the third
concerned the difficulty of coordinating materials purchased through ICB locally. Locally-based
PMU support teams had good technical skills but lacked experience in community mobilization.
Classrooms built under this approach took an average of 2.3 years to complete. The shift to
contracting labor through national enterprises increased classroom construction though not
completion time, which averaged 2.1 years. This was attributed to contractors' weak capacity and the
continuation of difficulties in the supply of materials.
-  The low threshold for tender board review (D10,000 equivalent to US$ 1,000) delayed small local
purchases of goods and services. Despite repeated recommendations by IDA, Government remains
reluctant to increase the ceiling.
-  The change in Government in 1994 brought about important changes in key personnel in the MOE,
which meant the loss of institutional memory and changes in operating procedures. This created
setbacks in project achievements in many areas, notably the textbook procurement schedule and rental
system, understanding of the policy framework and sector objectives. By that time, however, the
main investments of the project had already been made.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
20.   On the whole, project achievements are likely to be sustained. Demand for education is high and
the policy framework for the next 10 years builds on the achievements and lessons learned from the
previous framework. For example:
- developed comprehensive expenditure framework;
- budgetary allocations and sustained policies of improving resource use and subsidies reduction;
- improved decision-making process based on optimal resource use and expenditure analysis;
- emphasis on infrastructure maintenance to sustain the physical investments.



- 6-
21.  The Textbook Rental Scheme (TRS), which was poorly administered and managed towards the
end of the project, is one activity that Government cannot sustain due to the administrative and
management weaknesses and inefficiencies that have plagued it. The Revolving Fund has been totally
depleted and about US$ 600,000 of rental fees remain uncollected. The successor program will provide
primary textbooks free of charge and privatize the management of the TRS for secondary school
textbooks. Sustaining quality at the primary level will require refresher training of older certified
teachers (who didn't receive pre-service training) in the maintenance of their book supply.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
22.   Overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. Project identification was consistent with the
development strategy of both Government and the Bank. Project design was consistent with the
Government's Education Sector Policy Framework (1988-2005) and enhanced by good sector work.
23.   Project supervision by the Bank was regular and thorough particularly until 1994. Two to three
supervision missions per year were undertaken. Records indicate that a total of fifteen missions took
place from 1991 to 1997. Mission teams were comprised of a good mix of experts in relevant areas with
clearly defined tasks. A mid-term review was conducted in May-June 1994, a little later than planned in
the SAR. Overall, Bank assistance to the project was adequate and highly useful. Project implementation
progress was well-documented and reported by Bank missions to both Government and Bank officials.
Any lapses in implementation found by Bank missions were shared with relevant government officials for
remedy.
24.   Bank disbursements were very prompt, and at no time were problems encountered by the borrower
in this regard. Relations with the MOE (now DOSE) and other co-financiers was excellent throughout.
Cordial and fruitful meetings were held between Bank missions, government officials, and other donors to
share findings and seek agreement on project related issues. Actions agreed to during missions by
G'ambian government officials, were followed up consistently by Bank staff.
25.   There were no significant deviations from Bank policies and procedures. Bank staff showed
understanding and flexibility and accommodated requests by the Borrower for reasonable modifications to
the project.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The level of Government involvement in the preparation of the project was satisfactory and
relevant personnel were consulted. However, beneficiary input was inadequate and community in-kind
contributions disorganized, resulting in poor planning of project implementation. In the early years of the
project, borrower performance was not very satisfactory. Delays were experienced in the classroom
construction activities due to delays in Tender Board approval and logistical problems. By mid-term,
performance had improved considerably. The Government financial contribution was paid regularly.
27.   The Project Management Unit (PMIU) satisfactorily administered, managed, and coordinated
project activities. Detailed progress reports were submitted to the Bank as regularly as expected.
Activities were systematically monitored as they progressed, but performance indicators were not usually
maintained. Issues resulting from weak contractor performance were correctly handled by the PMU
which terminated the contracts, seized the bond performance guarantee and, in one case, pursued a lawsuit
to recover the amount owed by the contractor.



- 7-
28.   The Government's interest in and support for the project remained steadfast. It increased
budgetary allocations to the sector over the period and lived up to the loan commitments/covenants it
made with regard to sector policy changes and institutional refonns.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   The overall project outcome is satisfactory. It has provided the inputs as planned. The objective
of the primary school building program was achieved, resulting in the expected increase of seats for
primary school age students throughout the country. Student enrollment increased, exceeding projected
figures. Primary school were revised and new ones designed for middle schools. Appropriate
instructional materials were developed, produced and distributed in the school system accordingly.
Secondary education has been restructured and educational planning strengthened. Administrative and
managerial capacities have been augmented at central and divisional/regional levels.
30.   The elimination of the large number of unqualified teachers in the system was not realized.
Unqualified teachers still constitute a significant proportion of the teaching force at the primary level.
The qualitative improvement in the teaching and learning in primary schools is difficult to assess. Despite
the timely provision of sufficient instructional materials, the expected proportion of students having
access to them was not achieved partially due to the fact that the poor could not afford the rental fee. Also
the textbook rental system failed to be sustainable.
31.   Multi-grade and double-shift teaching as means of saving costs, improving efficiency, and
enhancing student achievement has been limited in scope and not taken seriously as a sector policy. More
dialogue is clearly needed on these different pedagogical methodologies, and the new education project
includes this dialogue in its mandate.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
32.   A more comprehensive Third Education Sector Project which seeks to consolidate and build on
what has been achieved to date was approved by IDA's Board in September 1998. It became effective in
March, 1999. The new project was the first APL in the Africa Region, covering the first phase of the
Government's 1 0-year program. Among other things, the classroom construction program will be
expanded, opportunities and strategies to increase enrollment of girls will be expanded and vigorously
pursued, vocational and technical training will be developed and teacher quality and supply.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The financial analyses must not only assess the budgetary impact of enrollment, but the efficient
use of physical and human resources. Similarly they must analyze the budgetary impact of subsidies,
because subsidies make some programs unsustainable on a larger scale (i.e. the subsidization of teacher
upgrading, school bus services, payment of examination fees, school lunch programs).
34.   Combining the seasonality of community volunteer labor with the supply of materials was found
to be problematic. Future education projects that involve classroom construction, should consider NGO
involvement to organize community labor contributions, through contract agreements with the DOSE.
35.   The use of large national contractors for small contracts for classroom construction throughout the
country gave mixed results. Future similar projects should consider the use of a Contract Management
Agency, which would be better able to manage numerous small contracts.



- 8-
36.   Thorough and sustained sensitization of parents on the double-shift system is required for public
acceptance and appreciation of the cost-effectiveness of these new dimensions of the education system.
An effective communication strategy with teachers and beneficiaries/communities is needed (and is being
developed within the new project) to prevent inappropriate strategies or reversals in policy decisions.
37.   Capacity building has had limited success. Capacity was narrowly perceived as a shortage of kills
and was therefore addressed only by the borrowing of skills through technical assistance and by training.
Even this limited capacity building did not work well: long term technical assistants were underutilized
and training was not based on a strategy for sector improvement or on identified priorities and was,
therefore, often ad hoc. Capacity building needs to be seen as a broad-based participatory endeavor, in
which in stakeholders and beneficiaries learn to maintain project activities.
38.   The National Tender Board should receive training related to World Bank procurement methods.
39.   The existence of a national education policy is important in maintaining continuity throughout
implementation.



- 9-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Subst             Prial Nel            bl        Not wDlicable
Macro Policies                      0                                5 0
Sector Policies                     0              [                 0                 5
Financial Objectives                0                               0                  0]
Institutional Development           a]             [                 0                 0
Physical Objectives                [                0                0                 0
Poverty Reduction                   a[                               5                (J
Gender Issues                       D                                5                 D
Other Social Objectives             a               5                5                 s
Environmental Objectives            a               a                a                [mJ
Public Sector Management            5                                5 a       
Private Sector Development          5               5                5
Other (specify)                     5               a                5                 5
(Continued)



- 10-
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikey                    Uncertain
V%j                                          El [
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactor                Deficient
(/)                     (V)                        (1)
Identification                       3                      i                         [
Preparation Assistance                1                     [F]                       [
Appraisal                                                   Ix                         El
Supervision                          ]                       EX 
Highly
:D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (/)                       (/)
Preparation                        F                         E 
Implementation                     [                                                  I]
Covenant Compliance                   l                     [                          E
Operation (if applicable)           E                        E                         E
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El                              (E)
O~~~~~~~E



- 11-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose              Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. First Education Sector   Construct a technical         1978                  Completed
project (Cr. 792-GM)    institute management
development institute,
training center for nurses,
secondary school
workshops, three regional
education centers, and
equipment planning unit.
2. Women in             Improve women's                   1990                  Completed
Development (Cr. 2142-    productivity and income-
GM)                     earning potential, improve
women's welfare and
status, strengthen
government institutions to
enable them to better
integrate women's issues
in their work and
contribute to bringing
about a change in
Gambian society's
perception of the role of
women
Following operations
1. Participatory Health,    Improve the quality of:       1998                   Ongoing
Nutrition and Population   reproductive health
Project (Cr. 3054-GM)   services, infant and child
health services, nutrition
services for women of
reproductive age, infants
and children, and
management and
implementation of a health
program.
2. Third Education Sector  Increase access to basic       1998                   Ongoing
Program (Cr. 3128-GM)    education, promote girls'
education, basic education
quality, early childhood
development and care,
increase secondary
education enrollment,
improve vocational and
technical education,
develop plan to upgrade
existing post-secondary
programs to degree level,
promote adult education
and capacity building for
sector management.



- 12-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                        Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      04/07/88              04/07/88
Preparation                                     10/06/88              10/06/88
Appraisal                                       06/03/89              06/03/89
Negotiations                                    05/04/90              04/09/90
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)  04/12/90        04/12/90
Boardc Presentation                             05/24/90             05/24/90
Signinig                                        06/26/90             06/26/90
Effectiveness                                   02/14/91              02/14/91
Midterm review (if applicable)                  05/25/93              05/25/94
Project Completion                              06/30/97              12/31/98
Loan Closing                                    06/30/97              8/31/99



- 13-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY1991  FY1992  FY1993  FY1994  FY1995  FY1996  FY1997  FY1998  FY1999
Appraisal    1.3       4.1      7.3       9.3      11.3     13.1      14.1     0         0
estimate
Actual       0.8       1.9      3.8       6.5      10.8      13.1     14.3     14.8      15.7*
Actual as %    62%     46%      52%       70%      96%       100%     101%
of estimate
Date of final                                                                            January
disbursement                                                                             20, 1999
At end of project, SDRI 1.3 was equivalent to $16.2 m
Table 5: Key Indicators of project Implementation
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators
1. Student enrollment              38,000                      42,000
2. New classrooms built               600                         600
3. Textbooks delivered            400,000                      400,000
4. Intake capacity of
teachers for training               100                         120
5. middle school revised          100,000                      100,000
textbooks
6. Unqualified teachers             1,200                        1,200
trained



- 14-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L     H       ~~~~There were no key indicators specified in the SAR or President's report



- 15-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                             Purpose as defined at    Status      Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1.PCU accounting manual      Set up accounting system      Completed  Has improved the
project financial
management
system .
2. Nationwide classroom      Define norms for classroom    Completed  Helped in
construction study           construction and develop an               defining needs
associated program                       and improving
the planning
process for
classroom
construction.
Adoption of
classroom
construction
strategy
3. Textbook Revolving Fund   To have sustainable textbook  Completed  Creating a
financing system                         textbook
revolving fund.
4. Audit of the Textbook     Evaluate the efficacity of the  Completed  Decision to revise
Revolving Fund             fund                                      fund management
to resolve some
ongoing
problems.



- 16-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                          Local   Foreign   Total  Local costs Foreign costs   Total
costs    costs
l.Construction and            4.0       5.1     9.1       0.8         6.5          7.2
Maintenance of Low Cost
classrooms
2. Revision of Curricula and   0.1      1.0      1.1      0.03        1.8           1.9
provision of Textbooks
3l. Teacher Training and       0.6      0.2      0.8      0.01        0.7           0.7
lJpgrading
4. Refurbishing Secondary      0.1      0.4      0.5       0          0.7           0.7
Technical Schools
5. Curriculum and Provision of    --    0.4      0.4       0          0.6          0.6
Instructional Materials
6. Gambian Technical Training    0.1    0.3      0.4      0.02        1.1           1.1
Institute
7. Banjul Skill Training Center    0.1  0.3      0.4      0.01        1.1           1.1
8. Ministry of Education       0.1      0.7      0.8       -          1.1          1. 1.
9. Project Implementation Unit   0.4    1.3      1.7       -          2.3           2.3
10. Examination Council        0.1      0.4     0.5                   0.3          0.3
Contingencies                                 1.8
EU contribution                              3.0                   3.0          3.0
PPF                                           .6                   .6            .6
Total                          8.2      13.0    21.2      0.9         19.8         20.6
Figures may not add up due to rounding
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                         (US$ million)
Item                      Local    Foreign      Total    Local costs    Foreign costs     Total
costs      costs
IDA                                   14.6      14.6                       14.6           15.7*
EU                                    3.0       3.0                         3.0           3.0**
Communities                           2.5       2.5          2.5                         2.5***
Government                            1.1        1.1         0.9                           0.9
Total                                 21.2      21.2         3.4           17.6           21.0
* At end of project, SDRI 1.3 was equivalent to $16.2 m
** EU's financing was parallel and fully disbursed. IDA didn't manage these funds.
*** Thiis figure corresponds to an estimated conversion of the in-kind contribution of communities through labor
and sand for school construction.



- 17-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No efforts were made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR), and
therefore there is no baseline against which to compare current estimates. Furthermore no parameters were given at
appraisal with regard to cost effectiveness.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (The Gambia)
Second Education Sector Project (cr. 2142-GM)
Covenant  Present                   Description of Covenant                    Comments
Agreement               Type     Status
3.03 (la)                        5         C        Borrower shall as from the start of its 1991/92 school year:
(a) begin to carry out the measures set out in an
implementation plan satisfactory to the Association to
increase the pupil/teacher ratio of the primary schools to 39:1
by the start of the 1996/97 school year.
3.03 (Ib)                        5         C        Begin to carry out an action plan satisfactory to the
Association to improve female enrollment and achievement
in Gambian schools including: (i) measures to increase the
number of women teachers, (ii) provision of gender-neutral
teaching materials for schools, (iii) encouragement of girl
pupils to take up and study science, technology, mathematics
and other technical subjects, and (iv) the incorporation of
family life education into the curricula of schools; and
3.03 (Ic)                        5         C        Begin to cany out a restructuring program satisfactory to the
Association for secondary general and technical education
including the phasing out by the 1995/96 school year of all
technical secondary schools.
3.03 (2)                         5         C        Borrower shall: (i) no later than March 31, 1991 (A)
complete a study to determine increases required in tuition
and user fees for secondary schools and training levies for
secondary and vocational training programs and (B) based on
the results of the study, furnish to the Association specific
proposals satisfactory to the Association for increases in said
fees and training levies; and (ii) as from the start of its
1991/92 school year begin in effect the said increases in fees
and training levies.
3.03 (4a)                        3         C        Borrower shall not later than March, 1991: (a) furnish to the
Association a detailed plan satisfactory to the Association
which (i) provides for the establishment and operation of a
textbook revolving fund into which textbook fees will be
deposited; and (ii) specifies (A) Borrower's contributions to
the textbook revolving fund, (BO arrangements for the
collection of funds to be paid into the textbook revolving
fund and the safeguarding of all funds paid therein; and (C)
the means of conversion into hard currency of all paid-in



- 2-
funds;
3.03 (4b)                     5         C       Duly establish and thereafter maintain, in place of the
Borrower's National Vocational training Board, a National
Council for Technical and Vocational training satisfactory to
the Association in which ministries, employers and workers'
organizations shall be adequately represented.
3.03 (4c)                     5         CP      Assign to technical assistance staff employed on the Project
an adequate number of Gambian nationals with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association;
3.03 (4d)                     9         C       Furnish to the Association for its review and comments
MOE's draft rules for the Primary School Leaving Certificate
(PSLC) and the Middle School leaving Certificate (MSLC)
examinations; and
3.03 (4e)                     5         C       Enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
the carrying out by the West African Examination Council of
responsibility for the design, administration and management
of the PSLC and the MSLC examinations.
3.03 (5)                      5         C       Borrower shall, by June 30, 1991, adopt and publish rules for
the PSLC and the MSLC examinations satisfactory to the
Association
3.03 (6)                      5         C       Borrower shall assign competent volunteers from reputable
international and other organizations to supervise the work of
mobile construction teams established under the Project
3.03 (7)                      5         C       Borrower shall: (i) continue to maintain he new
organizational structure of the MOE in a form satisfactory to
the Association; and (ii) appoint to all senior positions of
MOE persons with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association
3.04 (a)                      9         C       Borrower and the Association shall, not later than April 30,
1991 and, thereafter, not later than April 30 of each
subsequent year during which the Project is due to be
executed, exchange views on the execution of the Project and
the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement.
3.04 (b)                      9         C       Not later than one month prior to each such exchange of
views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
review and comments: (i) a report on the execution of the
Project, in such form and detail as the Association shall
request; and (ii) such other report or document as the
Association may reasonably require for purposes of each
such exchange of views.
3.05                          9         CD      Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association by
April 30, 1994 a mid-term review of the progress made in



- 3-
achieving he objectives of the Project, including the reform
measures described in the Borrower's education policy letter
dated April 12, 1990 to the Association.
4.01 (b)                         I         CD       Borrower shall (i) have the records and accounts referred to
(i)                                                 in paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
4.01 (b)                         1         C        Furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
(ii)                                                case not later than three months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01 (b) (iii)                   I         C        Furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time reasonably request.
4.01 (c) (i)                     I         C        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower, shall: maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with paragraph 9a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 (c) (ii)                    I         C        Retain, until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from credit Account as made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
4.01 (c) (iii)                   I         C        Enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
4.01 (c) (iv)                    I         C        Ensure that every six months said auditors furnish to the
Association an opinion as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such period, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Borrower complied with all Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$        Weeks        US$            Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal   16        --          --         --              55.0      134.7
Appraisal                  32        --          --         --              51.1      129.3
Negotiations through Board    28     --          --          -              8.4        20.8
approval
Supervision               N.A.       --          --         --              75.7      275.8
Completion                N.A.       --          --         --              .6         0.5
Total              29.2      --          --          --             196.2      561.1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions*
Stage of project cycle  ACTUAL
Weeks          US$
Preparation to Appraisal        5           12.25
Appraisal                       9           20.25
Negotiation through Board     N.A.          N.A.
Approval
Supervision                    69           169.05
Completion                     2             4.9
Total                   85          206.45
* Approximations based on average 2-wk. SPN missions ( $2.45/wk. Information was not captured electronically
throughout most of the projet.



APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 2
THE GAMBIA
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
IDA FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
December 8-11, 1998
An IDA mission comprised of Alassane Diawara (Mission Leader) and Serge Theunynck (Implementation
Specialist) visited The Gambia from December 8 - 11, 1998, to carry out the final supervision mission of the
Second Education Sector Project of which the closing date is December 31, 1998, and prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The mission also reviewed the status of the effectiveness conditions of the Third
Education Sector Program and discussed Government's plan for project launch and its timing.
The mission held working sessions with the Honorable Secretary of State for Education and the Secretary
of State for Finance, both permanent secretaries, and with the Staff in their Departmnents.
The mission expresses its sincere thanks to the staff of the PIU, the DoSE and the DoSFEA and to all other
people it met for their cooperation. The mission also extends its thanks to former staff invited by the PIU for this
occasion for their participation at different stages of the project. The aide-memoire summarizes the conclusions
which will be confirmed by letter upon the mission's return.
SUPERVISION
Although the project had to be extended twice, all project activities have now been fully implemented.
Government proposes to use the remaining project funds for textbooks and the extension of the Gambia College.
a) Textbooks: the mission was informed that the Government still intends to use part of the outstanding
funds to pay arrears owed to textbook suppliers given the malfunctioning of the textbook revolving fund. The
mission agreed to consider a proposal for a contract amendment for the unpaid delivered textbooks, provided that
the contract with the supplier be in accordance with the original bidding documents and that the payment could be
done before credit closing.
b) Gambia College: the mission informed the Government that the Education II Credit can only be used for
payment of contracts committed before the closing date.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
The draft ICR was discussed with the PIU and the current and former heads of components prepared by a
Bank consultant. It was felt that strong emphasis should be put on factors which affected the project and the
lessons learned. The comments received were noted and will be considered in the next version of the report which
will be sent back to the Government for comments. The mission was informed that the Government's final
evaluation of the project is under preparation and will be sent to the Bank before mid-January.
STATUS OF CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
At the time of the mission, only one condition out of six of Third Education Project had been met for the
credit effectiveness. The mission expressed its concern about the progress made in this area. The DoSFEA
informed the mission that budgetary procedures would not allow for an initial deposit to the Project Account by
December 21, 1998, one of the conditions of effectiveness. Consequently, the mission informed the Government to
ask for an extension of the date for Credit effectiveness. The status of the conditions for effectiveness is as follow:



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
*  Accounting Procedures of Manual: the consultant firm, KPMG Peat Marwick is currently working on the
updating of the Accounting manual; the completion is scheduled for January 11, 1999.
* Recruitment of the auditor: the selection process is at the stage of technical evaluation. The PIU shared with the
mission the letter of the Auditor General related to the technical evaluation and the mission informed the PIU
that the information requested in the previous correspondence still needs to be submitted to IDA for non
objection.
*  Framework agreement with GAMWORKS: the mission received the revised version which shows substantial
progress. However, some portions of the agreement still need to be revised and sent to the Bank.
* Service Agreements with Gambia College and WAEC: IDA's comments sent to Government were discussed. A
final version will be sent by the Government by December 16.
* Banjul Skill Center: the condition is satisfied.
* Project Account and initial deposit: the initial deposit cannot be deposited before next fiscal year.
The mission reviewed the proposed budget of the Education Sector currently submitted to the
parliament for approval. The mission was informed by the Permanent Secretary of DoSE that the
proposed 1999 total budget is reduced compared to the 1998 budget. The mission did not have
adequate time to assess the analysis of the budgetary period of 1998 and 1999 respectively and
wishes to be informed of the comparison made by the PPARBD. The Secretary of State and
Permanent Secretary of DoSFEA confirmed Government's commitment and gave assurance that
the budget allocation will be consistent with the Education Sector priorities and that the
efficiency measures will also be taken as recommended by the Education Sector PER.
The mission also discussed with the Government the launching of the Third Education Sector Program. A
tentative launch date is scheduled for January 24-25, 1999 . If the credit is effective, the Bank will participate in the
launching activities. The mission and other Development partners asked to be informed of the timing as well as
areas of program concentration to enable the Bank to develop a program. It is hoped that the partners associated
with the sector program will participate in different areas according to their comparative advantage and to the
benefit of the sector approach adopted by the Government.
Prepared in Banjul
December 11, 1998
For the World Bank Mission               For the Department of State for Education
Alassane Diawara                         Dr. Saja Taal,
Mission Leader                           Permanent Secretary



APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 8
EDCUATION SECTOR PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 2142-GM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JANUARY 1999
COMPILED BY
LAWRENCE BRUCE
PROJECT MANAGER
EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR EDUCATION
BANJUL, THE GAMBIA



APPENDIX B
Page.2 of 8
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Policy Docunents Volume 1 - Education, DOSE, Republic of The Gambia. 1998
Staff Appraisal Report, The Gambia Education Sector Project. The World Bank, April 30, 1990
Development Credit Agreement, Second Education Sector Project, between The Republic of The Gambia
and the International Development Association. June 29, 1990
Aide Memoires, Second Education Sector Project. June 21, 1989 - December 8 - 11, 1998.
Evaluation of the Pilot Project Girls Education YE 923 - 01 Adelaide Sosseh-Gaye and Louise Sowe
Holbrook, November, 1995.



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 8
Summary
This report is based on an evaluation of the Second World Bank Education Sector Project CR 2142-GM,
uncdertaken on behalf of the borrower.
Methodology: The evaluation exercise, which lasted for a month, was carried'out through document
reviews; interviews with key personnel; focus group discussions with beneficiaries and on site surveys.
Purpose: To prepare a report which would assess the Project's achievements and shortcomings, analyze
implementation results and provide useful lessons for all stakeholders.
The Project was designed to help implement a program of educational reform and restructuring that
would expand access to and improve the quality of education and training and maximize the allocation
and use of available resources. It had four major objectives:
i.    Expand and improve the quality of primary education.
ii.   Restructure and improve the quality of secondary education.
iii.   Strengthen skills training.
iv.   Strengthen key education sector institutions.
Achievement of objectives: The objectives of the project were substantially achieved. Nearly all targets
were met.
Enrollments at the primary level increased significantly to the extent that 58,771 school places were
created as against the 38,000 planned. Female enrolments at this level increased from 41% to 44%. The
Gross Enrollment rate was 70% exceeding the target of 62%.
The secondary technical schools were phased out and a 6-3-3 system of schooling was introduced. The
transition rate from the primary to the junior secondary level increased from 35% to 70% as against a
target of 60%.
At the teacher education level the number of female teacher trainees for the Primary Teachers Certificate
Course was increased to 40%. In addition 1259 unqualified Teachers were upgraded to become qualified
teachers.
The teaching of Population Family Life Education (POP/FLE) was incorporated into the school
curriculum. Research was undertaken into girls and Madrassa education.
Budgetary targets were consistently met and education's share of the budget increased from 19% in 1990
to 23% in 1994/95. Education spending on primary education increased to 45.6%
However, the elimination of gender biases in the school curriculum. The proposed increases in private
sector education. Increased community participation in education. The phasing out of unqualified teachers
in the school system and the instutionalisation of cost containment and cost recovery strategies were only
partially achieved.



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 8
The only objective that was not achieved was the increase of the Pupil Teacher Ratio (PTR) from 30:1 to
30:39 by 1996. By the end of the 1997/8 school year the PTR remained unchanged.
Factors that affected project implementation negatively: The role of communities in classroom
construction was over estimated. The tendering process as well as a change in the design led to delays in
award of contracts and slowed the school building schedule. Site selections for the building of new
schools did not always conform to the school map. The planning process was not always adequate and
delays were experienced in data collection.
The text book revolving fund which started off as a best example for the sub-region was affected by
inadequate logistical support, poor management of the information system and rapid staff turnover at the
level of management.
Significant and rapid staff changes affected all components of senior management. Counter part staff to
technical assistance personnel were not appointed on time.
Modifications:   The costs of the civil works components for Gambia College, Gambia Technical
Training Institute (GTTI) and the Book Production, Materials and Resources Unit (BPMRU) were under
estimated and additional funding had to be approved from the World Bank. Contractors had to replace the
community participation component. There were changes in the design of school buildings.
The Basic Teachers Certificate Course was upgraded to the Primary Teachers Certificate Course.
A grant was received by the Japanese Government to carry out a study on Adult and Non Formal
Education.
Performance of the stakeholders: The performance of both the Bank and the Borrower was good.
There was a high level of Government on both sides to the success of the Project.
Lessons Learnt: The objectives of the Education Policy 1998-2003 remain valid in the light of Education
For All (EFA). To achieve this the following must be done.
*  Continuous sensitization and awareness campaigns must be under taken to inform communities of
their role in project implementation.
* Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) should not be a one off approach but should be a repeating
experience building on previous findings and insights.
* Community participation should not be taken for granted.
. Staff stability is critical for proper management of the information system and for project
implementation.
* Local counter parts should be appointed on time to work with technical assistance personnel.
Not all innovations are readily adopted. (Note the slow up take of double shift and multi grade
teaching).
Future Operations: A Third World Bank Education Sector Project has been drawn up to consolidate on
what has been built and funding has been secured.



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 8
ASSESSMENT OF INVESTMENT COMPONENT
COSTS IN US $ 000
2.      Description of    Speciflcation/    Implementation                 3.      R                       4.     RESOURCES                           6.     REMA
ODE   activities          Interim Result   Planned                actual   ESPONSI                                                                        RKS
BILrrY          5.     PLANNED                          ACTUAL
Start  T End    Start   End                 Human    Mat        Fin      Human   Mat             Fin
3.20    Expanding and     200 classrooms    1991    1996    1991    199   PIU           5 mobile  5000F0   12,766.  3moble   5000            7,879.  314 Classrooms
(A)    Improving          I) Rehabilitated                                 Planning     construct  pieces            construct  pieces of            rehabilitated &
Primary Education   and 600                                        EDF          ion        of                 ion       fumiture              602 constructed
constructed to                                  IDA          teams      fumitur            teams     building
accommodate                                                   I VSO     e                  4 VSO's   mats
about 38,000                                                  per team    Buildin                    equip
students.                                                               g                            Vehicles
materia
Is equip
Vehicle
(ii) Curriculum  Oct    Feb.    Oct.    Feb'  CRDC            Local     Grs.1-6   1.420    Local     Equip         1.901.  Books revised &
revised and      '90     '90     '90      90     Services     subject    Pupils            subject    Vehicles             Provided. All
400,000 student                                  Div.        panels     &                  panels                          books for Grs. 1-
textbooks and                                                 6 T.A's   Trs.               2 TA's                          2 in schools in
guides provided                                                         Guides                                             Jan. 1993.
______________                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bks.5&6 in 1995
(iii) 1200 UQT's  1989/  1997   1989/   1995  Gambia          1200      Station   1.1357   1200      Station      725      1259 Primary
upgraded through  90     96      90      /96    college       UQT's    Ery                 UQT's    Ery                    UQT's
inset & pre-                                     PIU          16 tutors  Equip             16 tutors  Equip                Upgraded & pre-
service training                                              I coord.   Library           I coord.   Vehicles             service training
capacity                                                      lAsst    resourc             lAsst     Library               capacity
increased to                                                 coord      es                 coord     resource             increased to 125
about 100                                                               Physica                      Physical              teachers per
teachers                                                                I                            facilities            annum
Faciliti
es



APPENDIX B
Page 6 of 8
2.     Description of    Specification/    Implementation               3.    R                       4.    RESOURCES                         6.     REMA
ODE   activities        Interim Result   Planned               actual   ESPONSI                                                                    RKS
BILITY         5.    PLANNED                         ACTUAL
Start   Eiid   Start   End                Human   Mat    Fin          Human   Mat           Fin
B Restructuring &   1) 17 Existing  1992/  1995   1992/  1995  PIU                    Science                     Science              Secondary school
Improving        Secondary        93      96     93      /96    EU                    equip.   593.6              Equip.               system
Secondary        technical schools                              Planning              Materia                     Mats.               restructured into
education        converted into                                 Schools               Is                          Furni                6-3-3 system of
general                                       Div.                   fumitur                     ture                schooling.
Secondary                                                            e
Middle Schools
ii) Curricula   Oct.   Nov.   Oct.   Nov.  CRDC            Local     Grades                      Grades              Books revsed &
revised and     90      '93    '90      93    Services     Subject    7-9     576.7              7-9                 First set of Gr.7
100,000 student                               Div.         Panels    Pupils                     Pupils &             bis. In schools in
text books and                                             I Curr.   text bks                    Trs.                Jan.1993. Gr.9
teachers guides                                            Specialis  & Trs.                     Guides              bks. In schs. In
provided                                                   t         guides                                          Sept 1995
Soc. St
C Strengthening    Assistance             31.3.           1998  GTli         15 m.m.   Furnitu          15 m.m    Furni        1,060.  Laboratry &
Skills Training  provided for the         91                    NVTC        TA        re        1,044.   TA       Ture                testing
GTrl & NVTC                                                          Equip                       Equip.              equipment and
Vehicle                    Vehicles             fully equipped
s                                               resources centre
provided. Banjul
skiNs centre
compieted &
._________  _________           ______     _____                                                     equipped   in  1998



APPENDIX B
Page 7 of 8
2.     Description of     Specification/    Implementation                 3.      R                       4.     RESOURCES                          6.      REMA
ODE   activities          Interim Result    Planned               actual   ESPONSI                                                                        RKS
BILITY          5.     PLANNED                          ACTUAL
Start   End    Start   End                  Human    Mat        Fin      Human    Mat            Fin
D Strengthening    Educational      1989    31.3.   Feb     DOS                  I educ.    Equip.   1,085.   1 Educ.   Equip.       3,745.  The new
key Sectoral      Planning &                91      '90     E                   planner   Fumitu              Planner   Fumiture             organisational
Institutions      capacities of the                                             statistici  re                Statistici  Vehicles           structure of the
MOE (DOSE)                                                    an        Vehicle            an.                             MOE (DOSE)
reorganized &                                                           s                                                  was implemented
reinforced                                                                                                                 in 1990.
Qualified &
experienced
officials
satisfactory to
the Assoc were
appointed to fill
the senior
positions. A
SMT established
to improve
education policy
formulation and
programme
implementation
ii) MOE's        1990    31.3.   93       95     DOSE        TA's       Furnitu            DPM       Fumi                  Five T.A.
(DOSE)                   91                      IDA         DPM        re       2,034.0  Procure   Ture                   positions were
implementation                                               Procure    Equip              ment      Equip                 provided
capacity                                                      ment      ment               Planner   ment                  qualified &
strengthened                                                  Planner   Vehicle            Construe  Vehicles              experienced
Construc  s                  tion                            counterpart staff
tion                                                         were appointed
Account                                                      albeit later. Than
ant                                                         the stipulated
_______        _______   _ ______     _________ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______ ____   _______ dd at



APPENDIX B
Page 8 of 8
2.      Description of    Specification/    Implementation                  3.     R                        4.     RESOURCES                          6.     REMA
ODE   activities          Interim Result    Planned               actual   ESPONSI                                                                         RKS
BILffY          5.     PLANNED                          ACTUAL
Start   End    Start   End                  Human    Mat        Fin      Human    Mat            Fin
National         31.3.   1994/  31.3    1994  WAEC            24 TA               592      24 TA                   300     Cambridge
examination      91      95      .91      /95    National     Staff                        Staff                           Examinations
system re-                                       Office       Months                       Months                          Syndicate
organized                                                                                                                  provided
consultancy
srevices.
The PSLC
examinations
were
implemented in
1991/92 and the
MSLC in
________  __________1994/95



IBRD 22248
Pa  a                                                      15                                          PIUS map Pa, Lea' p'apaaad ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /'X   ~~   MAURITANIA
S        E         N         F        G         A         L                                                      ft                         74-ZMALL
-amar  aOaoLaar
K                                                                                                                               Used altO Pa AoIvOOaIlaaamIac ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mnor ~ ~ IN   
NI.. d. Ri, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ aIramLaatUlr llh                                   -~-~--.-                a
J.- K-d. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ poamLdd alalUU                                             S          N~'
K                                                                                                                                                                     Ulaoaaalralpna,laa Caon,aaor       0 I~~~Mdi~. 
S.b.k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t l,ArtSa-,l
(D-6                     \m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lp.aoltoaaaaaa                                    1GIE
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toomt taraa, t,
K.bb.  N                           B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~'                                                                   II aata'a
LA, K-dh ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ROdII             -          ~           r                  .a
I                                                                                                                                                                     Ualllt'~~~~~~i-  K
4 0                                                                          to                  -'                                                                                                                             1SsdLs          LbE     k,  E 
- :lK D-:eU                                                                                                                                                                       R    I   V aRreoCrI5Kad Ea
d       tArt. i  1                                          La-G                                                                           EDCAIO   SECTOR PROJC 
Seerara       Brtkoro~f~ 7                      Etn ~        asa.av          a        Kl                                                                           rtr roads Ipocedl          A    Regiome  decainOfCR                    tbaa,fa 
Far,-NEnt                                         c-eSeodary -ad,,
Barda  SAE          Ti  t             iaaaSna  a   ita~Traces                                                                                                                    C-ricAlua  DevelopmetC,
-                                                                                      NofonolcaniRol               U    Foo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xminotion,e CoUnil                UIroa
@ DIStricEIrhOdqLrt$e.              Middle Schools
C DMi-iio  hwedqoortere
Ira                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    E    N    E    G    A    L
MARCH 199U



