Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L,UJ -2t6o- ezr,
Rept N.. P-3853-EGT
REPORT AND REC)OMMENDATICt
OF TEE
PRESTDEflqT OF THE
I-NTERNAT[ONAL BANK F(R RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPRENT
TO IRE
EKECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US9100 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
CONSTRUCTION INGDSTRY PROJECT
June 1, 1984
This dnmme  ha a resticted iistnibmi.. nd may be wed by recipints ody in the pegfdoance of
their siadl dis Its contess mam edbewie be did without W.i Bank mtb_n



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Calendar 1983      April 1984
Currency Unit               Egyptian Pound (LE)
Official Foreign             USS 1  =  LE 0.70          0_70
:xchange Rate                LE 1   =  USt 1.43         1.43
Rate for Commercial          USS 1  =  LE 0.84          0.84
Bank Transactions            LE I   =  US$ 1.20         1.20
Free Market Rate (variable) USS I  =  LE1.20            1.15-1.25
LE 1   =  USt 0.90-0.83   0_86-0.80
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBE      -  Central Bank of Egypt
DIB      -  Development Industrial Bank
GOHBPR   -  General Organization of Housing, Building & Planning Research
IO      -  International Labor Organization
JCDCI    -  Joint Committee for the Development of the Construction Industry
LIBOR    -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MDHLR    - Miniscry of Development, Housing & Land Reclamation
NIB      -  National Investment Bank
PBs      -  Participating Banks
TOMOHAR  -  Training Organization of Ministry of Housing



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CONSTRUCrION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:          Arab Republic of Egypt.
Beneficiaries:     Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and Bank Misr.
Amount:            US$100 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Terms:             Repavable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  US$96.7 million and US$200,000 would be onlent to DIS and
Bank Misr, the participating banks (PBs), for the credit
component and technical assistance, respectiveLy, at an
interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus 1.5 percentage
points. The PBs would onlend the credit component to
subborrowers at a minimum interest rate of 14Z.
Amortization of the credit component would conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to specific investment projects
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. The
Government would retain US$2.8 million for the technical
assistance components for the Joint Comittee for the
Develovment of the Construction Industry (JCDCI) and
management development program. The technical assistance
components would be repavable in 20 years, including 5
years of grace. The exchange risk between the Egyptian
pound and the US dollar would be borne by the subborrovers;
the exchange risk with other currencies would be borne by
the Government.
Project            The project is designed to help initiate policy reforms
Description:        that can improve the performance of the construction
industry bv the provisioon of financial and technical
assistance. Specifically, under the project JCDCI would
undertake an agreed two-year action program, whicb would
accord priority to strengthening contractual and bidding
practices in the sector. The project would provide a line
of credit to the PBs for onlending for construction
equipment and machinery for the manufacture of building
materials and small items of construction equipment; a
technical assistance program for management development of
contracting companies; a technical assistance program for
the JCDCI; and staff training and technical assistance for
the PBs to help them improve their capacity to evaluate and
supervise loans in the sector. The major risks associated
with the project are the present limited capability of the
PBs to evaluate subprojects in the sector and delays in
Th document shu a resied disiution nd may be used by rnpie  on in th perfomanc of
ther otidm dutils Its contens my not oterwie be didosed without Wold Bank oin



-ii-
project execution due to risks inherent in the
construction industrv given strong fluctuations in
demand, current maaagement deficiencies in contracting
companies and delays in payments from clients for
completed work. Strong, pent up demand in the sector
and the tecbnical assistance components of the project
should minimize these risks.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/                      ForeiRn    Local   Total
US $ Hillion-
Line of Credit                  96.7     30.0 2] 126.7
Technical Assistance
Management Development          (2.0)    (1.2)    (3.2)
JCDCI                           (0.2)    (0.3)    (0.5)
PBs                             (0.2)    ( - )    (0.2)
Subtotal                      (2.4)    (1.5)    (3.9)
Contingencies                   (0.6)    (0.7)    (1.3)
Total Technical Assistance    3.0       2.2      5.2
Front-End Fee                    0.3       -       0.3
Total Financing Required    100.0      32.2    13Z.Z
Financing Plan:                                  Foreign    Local    Total
-US -   Million--
Bank                           100.0      -      100.0
Government                       -        2.2      2.2
Manufacturing Enterprises        -       30.0     30.0
Total                          100.0     32.2    132.2
Estimated          Bank Fiscal Year        85     86      87     88     89
Disbursements:                             -         US $ Millions
Annual                   6     35     36     17       6
Cumulative              6      41     77     94    100
Economic Rate
of Return:         N.A.
Appraisal Report:  No. 47Z1-EGT, dated May 24, 1984.
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
21 Representing the estimated local costs associated with the line of credit
for manufacturers of construction materials and equipment.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND REOOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance a Construction Iodustry Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Of
the loan, US$96.7 and US$200,000 would be relent to the participating banks
for the credit component and technical assistance, respectively, at an
interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus 1.5 percentage points. The
amortization of the credit component would conform substantiallv to the
aggregate of the amortization scbedules of the individual subloans. The
technical assistance components would be repavable in 20 years, including 5
years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A report on "Current Economic Situation and Growth Prospects" (Report
No. 4498-EGT) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20, 1983.
This section is based on that report; country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       Durinz the 1950s and 1960s, Egypt developed a virtual command economy
with a dominant public sector, fixed, administered prices and a pattern of
trade weighted heavily toward eastern bloc economies. BeRinning in 1974, the
Government began to gradually introduce an "Open Door" policy with the aim of
accelerating development by liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign
and domestic private investment.
4.       Supported by large external capital flows, the economv began to grow
faster in 1974 and 1975. This process was accentuated further during the
following five years bv a rapid rise in foreign earnings which helped narrow
the current account deficit wbile allowing imports to increase at a rapid
pace. During this period, Egypt exported a growing volume of petroleum at
favorable prices; a swelling number of Egyptian workers abroad remitted their
earnings in increasine amounts; tne Suez Canal reopened; and tourist receipts
continued to grow. Between 1974 and 1980, earnings from these sources grew in
US dollar terms by 40% per annum, accounting for over 70% of export earnings
by 1980. The resulting increase in income stimulated the economy, which grew
by more than 9% per annum during this period.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Water Supplv and Sewerage Engineering Project (P-3653-EGT),
distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.



- 2 -
5.       The continuation of rapid inflation abroad and fixed prices at home
created growing distortions in the domestic economy. Controlled prices for
consumer goods, energy, transport, rents, public sector wages and foreign
exchange lagged far behind international prices and domestic prices for many
of the same goods in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, resulting in a
-severe duality in Egypt's economy. Although the fixed prices avoided
stressful adjustments in the living standards of those with access to
controlled goods and services, they have created major strains and
inefficiencies in domestic production. Increasing consumer subsidies have
been conducive to high consumption, growing imports, unremunerative prices to
farmers and growing government budget deficits. Low energy prices have
permitted a rapid growth of domestic consumption, affecting the exportable
surplus of petroleum. Low transport tariffs have led to strained capacity and
inadequate investment and maintenance. Fixed reats have resulted in a severe
housing shortage. High employment and low wages in the public sector have
contributed to an exodus of skilled manpower from the public sector to higher
paying jobs abroad and to the private sector. An overvalued exchange rate has
discouraged non-oil commodity exports, while stimulating imports.
6.       Although since 1974 private sector investment, production and
employment have grown faster than in the public sector, the public sector is
still dominant, with 40% of total employment, 54% of value added, 60Z of total
expenditure and 7OZ of total investment. The public sector finances have
generally been in the red; the overall deficit has recently been around Z0 of
GDP. Although foreign resources and public control over various forms of
private saving have financed a considerable portion of this, between 30% and
50% has been financed by borrowing from the banking system. Growth of
domestic credit accelerated through 1980/81, when it reached a rate of 34Z.
Inflation has been 15% to 20Z per annum in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
7.       Given the external sources of income growth and the internal price
controls and policy constraints, the growth that accrued has been highly
biased. Fixed prices caused a shift in resources away from controlled (mainly
commodity producing) to free (principally trade and service) activities.
Within the cormmodity producing sectors, agriculture and industry, price
controls and subsidies distorted indicators of comparative advantage, causing
the largest profits in the production of the most land-extensive (e.g. red
meat) and most energy-intensive (e.g. aluminum) goods.
8.       At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's population is already large
relative to its quite limited arable land, with an average density higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. And this population is growing rapidly, by
2.5% per annum, or by over one million people every year. Almost half of this
growth is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. The family planning
programs have been weak. The rapid economic growth of recent years has been
stimulated by external circumstances and has had only deficient links to
agriculture, industry and services which in the end are the sectors where
productive gains can supply the resources for meeting needs and providing the
necessary jobs. For example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector account
for over 20% of GDP but only 1% of employment. While tourism and employment
abroad absorb considerably more Egyptians, their levels of activity have been
determined by external factors.
9.       The fast growth of external earnings which characterized the
1974-1980 period weakened sharply beginning in the summer of 1981, triggered



by a fall in oil prices. Increases in the volume of production and of exports
meant only modest rises in oil export earnings rather than the large increases
anticipated earlier. Along with the falling price of oil, workers'
remittances and tourist receipts also fell. Suez Canal receipts grew slowly,
rather than rising sharply as expected. As a result, there was a marked
deterioration in the key macroeconomic balances during 1981/82 (July 1981 to
June 1982). The current account deficit rose from US$2.3 billion in 1980/81
to USS3.5 billion in 1981/82 and the overall balance was a negative US$615
million. Ihe government budget deficit rose from 18X of GDP in I980/81 to 23Z
in 1981/82. The growth of the money supply spurted to 44Z in 1981/82.
Recent Developments
10.      The above situation was inherited by the Government of President
Mubarak in October 1981. The new Government has had to contend with both the
short-term resource scarcity and the longer-term structural constraints. The
deteriorating short-term trend was contained during the fiscal year ending
June 1983 despite a further decline in oil prices. While this reflects some
favorable circumstances such as low import prices and special military
exports, as well as a more normal flow of remittances, the improvement is
attributable in part to the authorities' own efforts. These included;
Ci) measures to curb imports, particularly of consumer goods; (ii) measures to
liberalize the terms on which banks can attract workers' remittances from
abroad; (iii) curbs in the growth of both current and capital public
expenditures; and (iv) a tightening of domestic credit. As a result of these
measures and the favorable factors mentioned above, the balance of payments
showed a substantial improvement, with the current account deficit narrowing
to an estimated USS2.2 billion in 1982/83. The overall balance of payments
showed a surplus in 1982/83, allowing Egypt to reduce its short-term debt and
rebuild reserves. The fiscal situation also showed some amelioration,
although the overall public sector deficit still remained large (21Z of GDP).
Reflecting the credit controls, the pace of monetary expansion and domestic
credit growth recorded a marked deceleration, with money supply growing 282 in
the last fiscal year.
11.      In addition to the stabilization measures, the Government began to
deal with sone of the country's longer-term constraints. The most substantial
change took place in the foreign trade regime where the Government has allowed
exporters to receive the most favorable exchange rate (the free market rate)
and has simultaneously taken steps to reduce export controls and strengthen
export promotion. At the same time, the commercial bank exchange rate was
allowed to depreciate, attracting additional workers' remittances and leading
to higher and more uniform exchange rates for price-sensitive imports. It
also took significant steps to simplify and strengthen investment incentives
for foreign and domestic private investors. There were some limited price
adjustments--for electricity, water charges, several industrial products and
agricultural commodities.
12.      The Government has formulated a new Five-Year Development Plan
(1982/83 to 1986/87). In terms of coverage and detail, the plan represents a
very substantial effort. The growth and investment objectives of the plan,
while ambitious, would move the economy in the right direction. The plan
clearly recognizes the underlying structural problems fac.ng the Egyptian
economy and the need for major policy reforms if the investment and growth
targets are to be met. The plan, however, contains few proposals for policy



action for reaching the stated goals. It is heartening that the plan's
objectives and basic thrust have been prominentlv endorsed. Nevertheless, it
remains to translate these goals more effectively into a series of policy
measures for implementation.
13.      The 1983/84 budget aims at a further improvement in the fiscal
balance in the current year. Income tax rates were raised somewhat and
exemptions from customs duties were limited. A major budget proposal was to
substantially reduce the level of consumer subsidies, but this step has not
Yet been taken. Parliament passed a law (Law 97 published August 4, 1983)
reforming in certain ways the organization and management of public sector
companies. The major changes are: an attempt to introduce a greater degree of
decentralization by creating bolding companies to oversee the operations of
public sector companies, and greater control over hiring by the management of
public sector companies.
14.      The election for the People's Assemblv at the end of May 1984 bas
caused the postponement of the presentation of a budget for 1984/85. The new
Assemblv will consider the budget towards the end of 1984, and any change in
policies will be known only at that time.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Although the Government was able to improve the short-run
macroeconomic situation in the balance of payments, public finances and the
monetary system, the longer-run structural problems discussed above still
remain. Furthermore, the external resource position facing Egypt during the
1980s inevitablv will be less favorable than in the 1970s. Nevertheless,
given appropriate policies, Egypt has the potential for sustained economic
growth and development. Its population constitutes a large domestic market.
Notwithstanding that the countrv's agricultural land is limited, the Nile
River provides ample and reliable irrigation to all of it; favorable
year-round growing conditions would allow considerably bigher yields than
those achieved so far. Ezypt has a key geographical location, a relatively
skilled labor force, somewhat varied raw materials and major reserves of
energy; these would allow a substantial degree of industrialization and trade
in manufactured goods. Finally, despite the recent slowdown in their growth,
Egvpt will continue to have access to foreign resources that can be used to
supplement domestic savings for investment.
16.      The major constraints on developing this potential are the distorting
policies enunciated. What is required is substantial adjustment in these
policies to arrest the growing duality of the economy and move it towards a
more unified and simplified incentive structure. These policy adjustments,
along with an appropriate investment program, will lay the basis for higher
iroducti-,ity and growth from Egypt's domestic commoditv producing sectors.
17.      Perhaps the most important adjustment needed is to raise energr
prices and to rationalize energy consumption through conservation measures.
Curbing the growth of demand for energv and substituting natural gas for
petroleum fuels will make much wiser use of Egypt's energy resources and will
add to the exportable surplus of Detroleum. The growth of consuimer subsidies
needs to be contained by price increases and improved targetting to low income
groups. This will ease the burden on the government budget and consequent



inflationary pressure; and, along with increases in farm prices, will reduce
the growth of imports of basic consumption goods. Agricultural prices need to
be raised for crops with high economic returns; controls over area planted and
over inputs should be relaxed. There is considerable scope to increase value
added in agriculture by shifting to a more intensive and highly valued pattern
of crop production and by motivating farmers to raise yields. The foreign
exchange rate should be unified and maintained flexible, reflecting the value
of foreign exchange to the economy, both to stimulate exports and ration funds
for imports. Improvements in the structure and operations of industrial
production through export promotion, exchange rate movements, more liberal
pricing and production control policy, an enlightened investment program and
greater autonomy in the management of public sector enterprises will have a
substantial impact on industrial productivity, employment and foreign exchange
availabilitv. In addition to improving the efficiency with which resources
are used in the economy, most of these changes would have a favorable impact
on the mobilization of public savings and foreign resources to finance the
required investments.
18.      The mediumr-term outlook will depend on the pace and magnitude of the
necessary policy reforms. Clearly it would be unrealistic to expect rapid
adjustments on all fronts, and in some cases it might even be
counterproductive to make sweeping changes. But adjustment with deliberate
speed across a broad spectrum is required to lay the base for sustained growth
at rates close to those achievable, given the resources available to the
economy. Some progress in initiating the necessary policy reforms has been
made during the past year with World Bank assistance, ard it is now important
to build on this momentum. The growth rates of the 1970s are unlikely to be
attainable in the 1980s. Nevertheless, assuming reasonable and effectual
policies, Egypt could maintain growth in the vicinity of 6% to 7% per annum in
the medium term. Although the public sector budget and current account
Jeficit will still remain high, they both should improve over the period; and
savings and investment can grow at rates that provide for longer-term growth
on a stable basis. Oil exports and Suez Canal revenues are not expected to
grow as rapidly as in the past; but non-oil exports have the capacity to
increase. The balance of payments will by no means be as comfortable as it
was up to 1980, but with sound domestic policies the needed imports can be
financed by growing export earnings and by continued success in attracting
private foreign investment and official aid transfers.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      At mid-1983, Egypt's publicly guaranteed non-military medium- and
long-term external debt was estimated at US$16 billion. Private
non-guaranteed debt is estimated at about US$600 million and total short-term
obligations, both public and private, are estimated to amount to a further
US$3.2 billion. Egypt's military debt is estimated to be in the range of US$7
billion. Of this, US$2.5 billion are obligations to the U.S. and US$1 billion
to France. In addition, military debt to eastern bloc countries is estimated
at about US$3 billion, but this is not being serviced. The volume and
structure of Egypt's mediur- and long-term non-military external debt is
dominated by the large borrowing from official sources that occurred during
the 1975-79 period. External indebtednes_ grew by 38% per annum during that
period, although almost 25% of official inflows were on a grant basis. By
contrast, external debt grew at an annual rate of 10% in 1980/81 and 1981/82
and 9% in 1982/83. This reflects the marked slowdown in official aid



co mitments and disbursements since 1979, with the cessation of capital
inflows from Arab countries, and the gradual impact of the conversion of the
bulk of the U.S. aid program to grants.  In spite of increased commercial
borrowing, almost 80% of Egypt's external debt is owed to official creditors
and mostly on fixed concessional terms. The remainder is owed to private
creditors, at variable rates linked to LIBOR.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates.
Nevertheless, the debt service ratio is projected to remain in the 27-30%
range in the next five years. Even without very rapid progress on the policy
reforms discussed above, Egypt would have the! capacity to service its debt in
the medium term while maintaining essential imports and growing at socially
acceptable, if lower, rates of growth. As stated, higher rates of economic
growth would depend heavily on substantial policy changes; with these changes,
Egypt's creditworthiness would also be enhanced. In the short run, Egypt must
carefully manage its macroeconomic variables, particularly the balance of
payments, as it did in 1982/83, to maintain its liquidity to meet its
immediate debt service obligations.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-ninth lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA co itments to US$2,996.1
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1984.
22.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a strategy
which involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. ahe approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
support has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which
the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues
and implement the programs.
23.      Industry illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the inmediate objective
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
1/   This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Water Supply and Sewerage Engineering Project
(P-3653-EGT), distributed to the Board on October 5, 1983.



- 7 -
production capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based
industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement, steel and fertilizer projects).
The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has financed six
subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metals, and engineering industries, in order to assist the
Government in formulating a package of policy and investment proposals for
external financing. The Bank has also provided substantial resources to
Egypt's private sector through financial intenmediaries, a growing proportion
of which is reaching small-scale industrial enterprises. The Bank has also
assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction industry
with the aim of strengthening its overall operations and removing the
bottleneck it represents in timely project execution (the study has also
provided the basis for the proposed project, para. 30). Finally, the Bank has
discussed with the Government a study of Trade Strategy and Investment
Planning to assist the Government in defining its trade strategy and priority
investments, as well as a study on promoting manufactured exports.
24.      The illustrative sketch discussed above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. Projects being prepared for future
lending will follow this strategy, and the pipeline includes activities in
vocational training, power and gas development, energy conservation, public
sector refcrm, export promotion, transportation, water supply, agriculture
(including drainage), development finance, industry, and further support to
the construction industry.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY83 represented 8% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1983. In FY86, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 7.5% and
4.4Z, respectively. It is estimated that in FY86, debt service payments to
the Bank and IDA will be about 5.7% and 0.2Z, respectively, of Egypt's
external debt service payments. With regard to disbursements, FY83 saw a
marked improvement over FY82, with Bank/IDA disbursements to Egypt increasing
from US$199 million to US$255 million. The Egyptian Government has placed a
high priority on improving overall project implementation, and it is
introducing monitoring practices to follow up the progress of projects
closely. As a result it is expected that loan/credit disbursements should
continue to increase in the future.
26.      IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1984 totalled about US$189 million and include: a
ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry project, a fish farming project, a
building material projecr. a tourism project and a reinforcing bar project.
IFC is discussing several oLher private sector and joint venture projects. A
summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in Annex II.



PART III - THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
The Setting
27.      While the share of the construction sector 1/ in total GDP is small
(about 5X), its participation in total annual gross fixed investment is
significant (45-50%). The contracting part of the sector employs about
700,000 persons or about 4.5% of the national labor force. It consists of 47
public sector companies; an estimated 20,000-25,000 private sector operating
units, including about 75 companies established under Law 43 2/ (some as joint
ventures with foreign firms); cooperatives of small private contractors; and
the informal sector (construction for own use, generally not conforming to all
laws and regulations). The public sector companies are the largest,
accounting for about 70Z of total annual turnover (most are between LE10-40
million). They are involved in transportation (28%), housing and general
building (23%), public utilities (23Z), industry (15%) and agriculture (11%).
Private sector companies have been bidding for public works in the last 4-5
years, and only a dozen or so have an annual turnover of over LE10 million.
These companies have concentrated on housing construction (over 70% of their
turnover) and are just beginning to diversify into other areas. Although main
contracts currently awarded to the private sector amount to less than 30% of
the total, these companies undertake nearly one half of the total work due to
subcontracts.
28.      The sector's recent performance can be regarded as disappointing;
after achieving a rapid growth in the l960s (6.7Z), it has slowed down (2.9%)
in spite of sustained economic growth (7.2%). Despite plentiful domestic
supplies of necessary raw materials and energy, the domestic production of
essential building materials such as cement has also been deficient. Tight
government control extending from production and importation to allocation,
distribution and pricing have resulted in inefficiencies and waste. Frequent
shortages have led to higher domestic prices and rising imports. Poor
contracting practices, a growing shortage of skilled workers, poor management
and lack of financing have adversely affected the sector's performance. The
inability of the sector to work expeditiously and efficicntly has become a
major bottleneck in the execution of the Government's investment plans. The
costs to the economy resulting from lengthy construction periods and low
quality workmanship, have been exceedingly high. Cognizant of the above
problems in the sector, the Government, with Bank assistance, is in the
process of initiating corrective actions (paras. 37 through 41).
Primary Problems
29.      The reasons for the sector's poor performance are rooted in the
structure of the construction industry itself. Since its nationalization in
the 1960s, the industry has been basically controlled by the Government. It
has developed and operated without well defined rules and regulations; the
1/ The construction sector is defined to embrace the entire construction
process, including construction contracting, construction materials and
other resources and construction related services.
2/ Enterprises formed under Law 43 of 1974 (as amended by Law 32 of 1977) are
private sector enterprises, and Lnerefore exempt from laws applicable to
the public sector.



Government has served as client, contractor and material distributor. Between
1962 and 1978, public sector companies received almost all of their work by
direct order, i.e. on a negotiated basis under which each company was
allocated work directly by a client ministry or public organization. The
blurring of functions has led to heavy payment arrears, inadequate proiect
supervision, and unfullfilled contractual conditions.
30.      To analvze more fully these problems and recommend appropriate
solutions, a Construction/Contracting Industry Study was completed in 1981 by
a team of Egyptian and foreign consultants, financed by the Bank, under the
guidance and supervision of a steering committee of the Ministry of
Development, Housing and Land Reclamation (MDHLR). The study recommended a
series of measures ranging from matters of a highly technical nature to those
that concern the overall management of the industry and the environment under
which it operates, to improve its performance.
31.      Institutional Complexities.  Institutional complexities have impaired
the effective functioning of the sector. Public sector companies operate
under the jurisdiction of five separate ministries. A plethora of other
agencies, such as four Supreme Councils, the Training Organization of the
Ministry of lousing (TOMOHAR) and the General Organization of Housing,
Building and Planning Research (GOHBPR), are also involved. This has
fragmented responsibilities without providing for adequate coordination,
planning or supervision. Effective institutions or associations to group
material producers, contractors and the professions involved in construction
design and supervision have been lacking. Finally, the legislation, standards
and codes of practice dealing with the sector, while comprehensive, are overly
complicated; and the machinery for their enforcement is lacking.
32.      Inadequate Resources.  In addition to the insufficiency of building
materials, management, personnel, equipment, technology and financial
resources have been in short supply. Two decades of direct order work and
noncompetitive operations, combined with insufficient autonomy over key areas
of company operations, have meant that public sector managers have had neither
the means nor the incentive to improve productivity. Managers, in general,
lack experience in, or exposure to, good management practices and up-to-date
technology. The shortage of trained and experienced technical personnel and
skilled labor has contributed to a decrease in productivity. Training
facilities have not been able to keep up with the sector's requirements. A
further constraint has been that much of the construction equipment fleet in
Egypt, three quarters of which is owned by public sector companies, is
obsolete and in need of replacement. It is estimated that to modernize and
rehabilitate the fleet, about US$300 million a year would be required over the
next five years. I2adequate maintenance and insufficiently trained operators
have led to less than satisfactory utilization rates of equipment. There are
no well established leasing companies, and only the two largest public sector
companies have recently established in-house leasing arrangements to improve
capacity utilization. Much of the technology used is outdated and working
capital and development finance to the sector have been insufficient.
Financing the Construction Sector
33.      There are no banks specializing in construction industry financing in
Egypt. The main financial intermediaries which cater to the industry are the
Development Industrial Bank (DIB), which is virtually the only institution
providing long-term foreign currency loans to contracting companies; the



- 10 -
National Investment Bank, established to help finance public sector projects
in the Five-Year Plan; the Housing Development Bank; and state-owned mortgage
banks and cocmercial banks, of which Banque du Caire is the largest.  Given
the special risks associated with contracting, institutional finance for this
activity has been minimal: the total amount of finance offered by all banks to
the contracting sector (estimated at LE 230 million in 1979) represents about
15% of total turnover, 70% of which went to public sector companies, mostly
for short-term working capital. Conservative requirements in terms of
deposits and guarantees of substantial real assets as collateral, especially
for private sector contractors, have inhibited oorrowing. The lack of
institutional finance has been a major impediment to efficiency, expansion and
diversification of the capacitv of private sector contractors.
34.      Another significant problem has been the delay in contract payments
br the Government. To ease their liquiditv situation, contractors borrow from
local commercial banks at prevailing interest rates; but since they earn no
interest on accounts receivable, the net result has been a squeeze on
profitability. Other related problems include the large amounts of funds
required for advance payments for building materials and the absence of cost
escalation clauses in contracts.
35.      Cost of Capital In Egept.  Interest rates on deposits and loans in
local currency for all financial institutions are regulated by the Central
Bank of Egvpt (CBE). Since 1976, lending rates have increased from 7-8Z to a
maximum of 13Z for industrial and agricultural credit and 13-15% for services,
and a minimum of 16Z for commercial credit; and rates on deposits (for six
months and one year) from 2.7-3% to 9.5-11Z. On the basis of the Bank's
estimate of recent inflation in Egypt (18Z in 1982 and 17% in 1983), these
interest rates have been negative in real terms. As inflation is projected to
decelerate, interest rates are expected to turn gradually positive in real
terms. Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE and
reflect the cost of those resources (i.e. the six-month London Inter-Bank
Offer Rate, currentlv about IZZ, plus a spread of about two percentage
points). The minimum interest rates on foreign currency loans from DIB and
Bank Misr (tbe two participating banks under the proposed project) would be
14Z.  Other charges such as compensatory deposits, commitment charges and
front end fees increase the cost of these funds to about 16%.
36.      Foreign Exchange Rate.  There are currently three different foreign
exchange pools in Egypt--the Central Bank pool, the commercial bank pool and
the free market-each with its own sources and uses of funds and with separate
exchange rates. All transactions in the Central Bank pool are at the official
rate swhich has been set at 70 piastres to the dollar since 1979. This pool is
supplied by receipts from Suez Canal dues, petroleum and some agricultural
exports and funds are used primarily to service external government debt and
to finance imports of basic supply commodities. The commercial bank pool is
supplied mainly by cash remittances from Egyptians working abroad, tourism
receipts and the remaining non-oil exports. An official commercial bank
exchange rate was introduced as a separate rate in August 1981 and has
remained fixed at 84 piastres to the dollar; although many transactions,
including remittance transfers, tourist receipts, and import payments, noW
occur at rates between 108 and 116 piastres to the dollar, close to the "free"
or own exchange rate. The "free' or own exchange market is supplied by
remittances from Egyptians working abroad, and some tourist receipts. Private
individuals and companies can buy foreign exchange at a freely flcdting rate



- ii -
in order to finance imports or to invest in dollar-denominated assets. Over
the past year, the free market rate has fluctuated between 110 and 125
piastres to the dollar. Since the second half of 1982, the Government has
been engaged in a dialogue on the exchange rate regime with the D(F. In April
1983 the Government introduced an important reform, allowing exporters to
receive the most favorable exchange rate. i.e. the free market rate.
Government's Scrategy for Development of the Sector
37.      As stated, the Governuent recognizes the serious inadequacies of the
Egyptian construction industry and the major problems which must be overcome
for the industry to play a meaningful role in the development of the economy.
The high priority accorded to the industry in the new Five-Year Plan is
illustrated by the fact that the construction component would account for over
LE16 billion or 47% of total investment, nearly double the level assigned in
the last plan. The plan also gives emphasis to increasing production of
building materials; if implemented as scheduled, it would alleviate in large
measure the shortages encountered in the past. The Government, based on the
recommendations made in the Construction/Contracting Industry Study referred
to above (para. 30) and in che context of discuss-ions of the proposed loan,
has set in motion several policy reforms with the aim of improving the
industry.
38.      IG order to help Improve the efficiency of the industry, the
Government has established a Joint Couuittee for the Development of the
Construction Industry (JCDCI) under the MDHLR. The composition of the JCDCI
represents a balanced cross section of the industry, including representatives
of the ministries involved, TOMOHAR, GOHBPR, professional associations (such
as the new contractors' association) and four qualified and experienced local
sector specialists. The JCDCI will oversee the preparation of detailed action
progr.s based on the general recommendations of the Construction/Contracting
Industry St-udy and suggest their adoption by the concerned ministries. The
Government and the Bank have agreed on a two-year action program which
comprises the most pressing of the study's recommendations: changes in bidding
procedures for public works, including preparation of standard documents,
general conditions of contract, technical evaluation of bids, specifications,
standards and codes of practice, etc. (para. 46).
39.      The Government is also in the process of establishing an Egyptian
Federation of Contractors, which would set registration standards; help
prepare suitable standard general conditions of contract to improve the
contractual relationship between owner and contractor, as well as standard
specifications to meet modern requirements in the context of local conditions;
and recommend training needs for the industry. The necessary legislation is
now before the People's Assembly. These reforms should go a long way towards
the objective of transferring the initiative for operation and growth of the
industry from the Government to the contractors themselves.
40.      The Government is also encouraging greater participation by the
private sector. Realizing that the direct order method is not conducive to
competitive practices, cost savings, quality and satisfactory completion time,
the Government ceased using this approach as a matter of normal routine in
1979. Under a new procurement law (Law 9 of 1983) contracts are awarded after
free competitive bidding, and the Government has reaffirmed its commitment to
this principle under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The



- 12 -
resulting competition has already fostered some increases in efficiency and
reductions in construction costs. Procurement practices should be further
strengthened as the new contractors' association completes the classification
and registration of contractors and changes are made in the current system of
tendering procedures and contract documents. In addition, greater private
sector participation has resulted from the removal of previous restrictions on
the amount of work given to private sector contractors, and the Government is
also encouraging private investment in building material production. As a
result, private sector activity has increased in recent years and is expected
to continue to do so in the future.
41.      To overcome the insufficiency of trained manpower, the Government has
instituted programs to train and upgrade the skills of construction workers,
although these programs need to be improved and expanded. Lastly, the
Government, through a nev law (97 of 1983), has reformed in certain ways the
organization and management of the public sector. The major changes are: an
attempt to introduce greater decentralization by the creation of holding
companies to oversee the operations of public sector companies and more
control by management over hiring. The companies are also allowed to provide
increased incentives and bonuses.
Bank Group Strategy in the Sector
42.      The Bank's strategy in the construction sector is to assist the
Government in establishing an environment which will be conducive to promoting
efficient construction companies, capable of meeting the challenges of Egypt's
development plans. This requires a sustained, long-term effort and involves
Bank assistance in a number of interrelated areas; (a) fostering fair
competition between public and private sector companies leading to
cost-effective performance by developing appropriate "rules of the game"
(bidding procedures, conditions of contract, technical evaluation of bids,
specifications, standards and codes of practice, etc.); (b) establishing new
institutions and strengthening existing ones to improve coordination and
planning in the sector; (c) increasing the quantity and quality of
construction resources, including managerial skills, manpower, equipment,
materials and finance; (d) fostering the use of appropriate technology; and
(e) encouraging the growth of the private sector, particularly small
contractors.
43.      Through components of a number of education projects, most recently
the FY83 Vocational Training Project (Loan 2264-EGT), the Bank has been
supporting the Government's efforts to increase the supply and upgrade the
quality of skilled and semi-skilled manpower in the sector. The Bank has also
supported the Government's efforts to increase the supply of basic
construction materials, such as cement and reinforcing bars (Loans 1085-EGT
and 2280-EGT). The proposed project, envisaged to be the first in a series of
programmed assistance to the construction industry, is designed to assist the
JCDCI in beginning its policy reform work and to help individual companies
improve their performance by the provision of financial and technical
assistance. Specifically, it would assist JCDCI to address the most pressing
needs, concentrating on a fev specific areas (para. 38), which are spread over
various organizations. If successful, it vould be followed by other projects
vhich would concentrate more directly on institutional reforms, as well as on
further policy adjustments.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The project was identified and developed in the contest of
discussions on the Construction/Contracting Industry Study (para. 30) in June
1982 and was appraised in May/June 1983. Negotiations were held in Wasbington
from March 26-30, 1984, with the Egvptian delegation led by Dr. Erfan Shafey,
First Undersecretary, Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation.
The main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Suumarv and in Annex III.  A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4721-EGT), dated
May 24, 1984, is being distributed separately.
Proiect Objectives and Description
45.      The major objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) support the
process of policy reform in the construc-tion sector; (ii) help upgrade the
skills of management in contracting companies, particularlv in the public
sector; (iii) assist the financial institutions to strengthen their ability to
evaluate and supervise loans in the sector; (iv) belp improve the capacity of
the construction sector bv the provision of finance for urgently required
construction equipment and machinery for the production of building materials
(excluding cement and steel); and (v) help encourage competition between
private and public sector construction companies. The proposed Bank loan of
UStI00 million, including a capitalized front end fee of US50.3 million, would
be for the following: (i) US096.7 million to DIB and Bank Misr, the
participating banks (PBs), for onlending to public and private sector
construction enterprises; (ii) USg2.5 million for a technical assistance
program for management development of contracting companies; (iii) US0O.3
million for a technical assistance program for the Joint Committee for the
Development of the Construction Industry (JCDCI); and (iv) US$100,000 for each
of the PBs for staff training and technical assistance.
Technical Assistance and Training
46.      The technical assistance to be provided under the project is in three
areas (para. 45). The first, technical assistance to the JCDCI, would help
continue the work begun under the Construction/Contracting Industry Study
aimed at removing constraints inhibiting the sector's performance and creating
an environment conducive to fair competition and cost effectiveness. Under
the project, a two-year action program has been agreed with the Government,
which concentrates on the key reforms in the sector (para. 38). This
component would enable the JCDC:I to engage consultants to prepare studies and
make recommendations to help carrv out this program. It has been agreed that
the Government would discuss the proposals with the Bank and implement the
agreed recottendations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).  The general oversight
and monitoring of this component and the one described below (para. 47) would
be the responsibility of an executive subcommittee of the JCDCI, staffed by
seven members drawn from the JCDCI and chaired by the head of the steering
committee whibh prepared the studv. This subcommittee will be supported by a
technical and financial secretariat in the MDHLR, which the Government has
agreed will be adequately staffed with full-time experienced members (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
47.      The second area of technical assistance is for a comprehensive 30
month management development program to upgrade the skills of senior staff in
contracting enterprises, particularly in the public sector, in organizing and



- 14 -
deploying resources more efficiently. The program would provide for a
combination of academic inputs and practical on-the-job coaching, with accent
on the latter. Under the project, technical assistance in the form of a team
of advisors would be made available to chairmen, board members and senior
managers to help them analyze and solve company problems. The advisors would
identify both management training needs and the scope for improvement in
management information and operating systems; they would then help develop the
necessary systems and training programs. While the specifications would be
prepared by the team, the detailed work would be subcontracted to the Sadat
Academy of Management, thus tapping local expertise and providing an
institutional base for continued training and advisory services when technical
assistance has been phased out. This technicaL assistance program would be
open to both public and private sector subborrowers under the proposed loan
but would be mandatory for the former, given the compelling need to upgrade
their skills (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(ii)).
48.      The technical assistance team would comprise three senior advisors
(in construction, financial management and training) and five other experts
(in construction project management, estimating and costing, plant management,
systems analysis and training). An evaluation program would be developed by
the team early in the project to test the effectiveness of training in
improving the performance of the participating enterprises. Based on its
record under the DIE V Project, the Government has expressed interest in
entrusting the execution of the program to the International Labor
organization (LO), which would be responsible for recruiting the technical
assistance team, providing the training equipment and for subcontracting
arrangements, general administration and technical support. Details of the
services to be provided and the key experts would be agreed by the Government
and the Bank; and IW (or another agency/firm selected) would enter into a
contract with KDHLR satisfactory to the Bank, which is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02(b) and
7.01(b)).
49.      Finally, the technical assistance for the PBs would finance
consultants to help staff carry out subproject appraisals and conduct in-house
training as well as training abroad. While both DIB and Bank Misr have been
recipients cf Bank loans in the past and are familiar with Bank procedures for
subloan reviews, their sub-project evaluation capability for the contracting
sector is limited.
Participating Banks
50.      DIB, a public sector development bank established in 1975, has its
head office in Cairo and branches in Alexandria and Tanta. Its paid-in
capital of LE34 million is held entirely by the Government; DIB is subject to
supervision by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). In its association with the
Bank, DIB has successfully implemented four industrial development projects;
and its performance under a fifth is exceeding appraisal estimates. DIB has
also participated in two agroindustries projects. DIB quadrupled its lending
operations between 1979 and 1983; at the same time, the proportion of its
medium- and long-term foreign currency operations increased, so that DIB has
achieved its objective of becoming primarily a provider of medium- and
long-term foreign currency investment funds to industry in Egypt. Besides
becoming Egypt's premier institution for long-term industrial development
finance, DIB's lending for small- and mediur-scale industrial enterprises has



- 15 -
also increased from 20% of total term lending in 1978 to 40% in 1983. DIB's
portfolio is sound and is well diversified among industrial subsectors.
Between 1979-83, before tax return, on average equity ranged between 9Z and
30Z per annum, and its assets over the same period grew at an average annual
rate of about 40%. Witb a satisfactory liquidity situation and a long-term
debt/equity ratio of 7.3:1 as of June 30. 1983, DIB has a strong financial
position and is well placed to continue expanding its operations.
51.      Bank Misr, established in 1920, is Egvpt's second largest commercial
bank, with 300 brancbes throughout Egypt. It is a joint stock bank, and its
entire paid-in LE20 million share capital is held by CBE. Bank Misr's
portfolio consists mainly of short-term loans for commercial and trading
activities, but with the establishment of a separate "Investment Center", it
is increasing its medium- and long-term financinz activities with the
assistance of three Bank projects. Technical assistance under these projects
has helped improve Bank Misr's development finance activities and strengthen
its project appraisal and subborrower assistance capabilities. Its total
assets increased 93% to LE 4,100 million between 1980 and 1983.   Financial
results have been satisfactory, with profits after taxes and provisions
increasing to LE 51 million for the year ending June 30, 1983, a return of 542
on its equity.
Project Costs and Financing
52.      The total cost of the project is estimated at USt132 million
equivalent of which the foreign exchange component would be US100 million
equivalent (76%). The cost of the technical assistance and training programs
is estimated at US$5.2 milliou equivalent of which US$3 million equivalent
represents the foreign exchange cost. This would cover: 316 staff months of
consultants; staff training abroad; and office equipment. Consultants would
be engaged in accordance with the Bank's guidelines under tezms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bark (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02(b); Project Agreement,
Section 2.09). Price contingencies have been calculated in accordance with
the Bank's projections of future inflation in Egypt (14% in 1984, 13X in 1985,
12Z in 1986 and 102 thereafter) and supplying countries (3.5% in 1984, 8% in
1985 and 9Z thereafter). Physical contingencies are estimated at 5% of base
costs. The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreigo exchange cost of the
project.
Project Execution
53.      The proposed loan of US$100 million equivalent would be made to the
Government which, in turn, would onlend US$96.7 million of it to the PBs for
the credit component and US$100,000 each for technical assistance and
training, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank (the
execution of which would be a condition of effectiveness). The credit and
tecbnical assistance components would be onlent for 20 years including five
years of grace at an interest rate set initiallv at 1.5 percentage points
over the Bank rate (about 11.5%) (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.08, 3.01(c) and
7.01(a)). The 1.5 margin would compensate the Government for taking the risk
of the variable interest rate and of the exchange rate between the US dollar
and the currencies owed the Bank and would help generate funds to repay the
cost of the technical assistance component for management development.



- 16 -
54.      The credit component would be repaid according to an amortization
schedule corresponding to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of all
the subloans made by the PBs (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(i)). The
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation would provide
coordination among the two PBs, and with the Bank, monitor the allocations of
funds under the credit component of loan, which would be made available on a
first-come-first-served basis; the PBs would be responsible for payment of the
Bank's commitment charge and front end fee on their portion. The Government
would be responsible for the repayment of the USg2.5 million allocated for the
management development program and the US$0.3 million for the technical
assistance to the JCDCI.
Relending Terms and Conditions
55.      The credit line would be used by the PBs to finance the foreign
exchange needs of fixed assets and associated permanent working capital of
eligible enterprises in both the public and private sector, including those
formed under Taw 43, (para. 27) defined as: (i) contracting companies; (ii)
manufacturing encerprises involved in the production of building materials
(excluding cement and steel) and small items of construction equipment; and
(iii) equipment leasing companies (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02(f)). While
there are at present no equipment leasing companies in Egypt, a number of
proposals are currentlv under study; given the important role they could play,
especially vis-a-vis small contractors, provision has been made under the
proposed loan for this activity. In line with the Government's renewed
emphasis on the private sector, the PBs have agreed to undertake special
actions to ensure maximum utilization of the proposed loan bv private sector
companies (Project Agreement, Section 2.11). The PBs would onlend the funds
for up to 15 years, including grace periods of up to three years (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(i); Project Agreement, Section 2.05(i)).
56.      In order to help the PBs appraise subprojects for contractors and
leasing companies and in view of their limited experience in this area, the
Bank and staff of the PBs conducted a detailed review of several public sector
contracting companies in order to develop detailed guidelines which will be
used by the PBs in appraising these subloans. Subloans to manufacturers of
building materials and construction equipment would be appraised by the PBs
following their normal procedures, which are satisfactorv; these include
requirements for minimum economic and financial rates of return of,
respectively, 12X and the rate equal to the subloan interest rate, wbich would
be calculated for all subloans exceeding USt650,000 or subprojects for which
total costs exceed LE 800,000 (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(c)). The
guidelines for subloans to contractors include the priorities for various
types of construction equipment to be financed under the loan as well as other
factors which must be appraised: the managerial capability of the contracting
companies, volume of work and turnover growth, equipment on hand in relation
to existing and proposed work and justification for proposed equipment, and
various financial and operational ratios.
57.      Subloans would be made in US dollar equivalents and would carry a
minimum fixed interest rate for the life of the loan of 14Z (which allows



- 17 -
about a 2.5 percentage point spread for tbe PBs, which is considered
satisfactorv, and 1.5 percentage points for the Government (para. 53)). The
four percentage point spread and two percentage points in additional charges
would bring the effective onlending rate to about 16% per annum (para. 35).
The interest rate structure would be reviewed annually to reflect cbanges in
the cost of similar, alternative funds to Egyptian borrowers; and the new
rates applied to the uncommitted portion of the Bank loan. As under previous
Bank Inans to the PBs, subborrovers would assume the foreign excbhage risk
between the US dollar and the Egvptian pound (calculated at the highest rate
of exchange declared by CBE at the time of repayment); the Government, between
the US dollar and currencies owed to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.01(c)(iii) and (v); Project Agreement, Sections 2.04(a), and 2.05(b)).
Since the Government has begun to make adjustments in its foreign exchange
rate rezime it has been agreed that the Borrower, the Bank and the
Participating Banks will, before subloan comnitments, review the effective
cost of capital (taking into consideration the nominal interest rate,
applicable exchange rate and otber necessary premia) with a view to setting it
at an appropriate level.
58.      In order to build upon the experience of the PBs in financing similar
subloans fer manufacturing, there would be a free limit of US$1 million for
individual subloans (Project Agreement, Section 1.01(a)). In addition, the
first three subloans from each PB for contractors would be reviewed in the
Bank, as the PBs are unfamiliar with this type of lending and appraisal
procedures for such subloans have been newly designed. It is estimated that
about 20-25 sLMloans for USg20 million would be below the free limit. The
intensity of Bank review would gradually decline as the PBs gain more
experience in appraising subloans in the sector. In order to ensure that the
proposed loan covers a large number of enterprises, the maximum subloan amount
would be US$5 million (Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a)(i); it is expected
that this would Renerate 35-45 subloans of which 20-25 would go to the private
sector. The final date for submission of subloans would be June 30, 1987 and
the closing date for disbursements December 31, 1989.
Procurement and Disbursement
59.      All bid packages for construction equipment exceeding US$2 million
would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures,
subject to prior Bank review; below this amount, international shopping
procedures, satisfactorv to the Bank, would be used. Inc-eased
standardization, as a rule, is desirable to facilitate maintenance and
availability of spare parts; and the PBs and JCDCI would assist the borrowers
to combine Procurement in joint calls for bids. It is estimated that about
half of the total credit component for import of construction equipment would
be subject to ICB. The Bank loan would be disbursed over a five-year period
against the following percentages: lOOZ of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment and 60% of the local purchase cost of imported equipment purchased
"off the shelf" from local dealers; and 100% for consultants. The projected
disbursement profile is in line with experience to date on previous Bank loans
to DFCs in Egypt.
Project Reporting, Accounts and Audit
60.      The PBs would submit to the Bank audited statements of project
accounts and annual financial statements audited bv a firm acceptable to the
Bank within nine months of the end of the financial year, and in addition,
would submit quarterly progress reports relating to project activities.
Similarly, semi-annual reports and project accounts for the technical
assistance comnonents for the JCDCI and the Management Development Program
could be prepared uuder the auspices of the MDHLR and submitted to the Bank.



- 18 -
Project Justification and Risk
61.      The proposed project would support the Government's efforts to
strengthen the capability of the domestic construction industry so that it can
facilitate attainment of the Government's Five-Year Plan objectives. Through
the JCDCI and related technical assistance, it would help initiate major
policy reforms considered necessary for the sector to function more
effectively. In the shorter term, the project would also help improve Lbe
capacity and performance of the industry by the provision of financial
assistance for the import of urgently required equipment and technical
assistance to upgrade the management of construction enterprises. Improved
management is the key to better utilization of scarce human, financial and
material resources, and in time should have a positive effect on the quality
and timeliness of the construction industry in Egypt. The proposed project
would also make funds available to private sector companies (all of which are
small- and medium- scale enterprises), which currently have more difficulty in
securing the necessary finance, and thus encourage their greater participation
in the sector. This would also be fostered by expected changes in the
Government's tendering procedures, conditions of contract and other related
legislation. Finally, the project would provide technical assistance to the
two PBs to strengthen their capacity to evaluate and monitor lending to
construction enterprises.
62.      The two major risks associated with the project are the present
limited capability of the PBs to evaluate subprojects in the construction
sector, which could result in suboptimal projects, and delays in project
execution due to (i) the risks inherenc in the industry arising from strong
fluctuations in demand; (ii) management deficiencies in the contracting
industry which hamper the efficient use of fixed assets and thus exacerbate
difficulties in meeting financial obligations; and (iii) substantial delays in
payments from clients for completed works resulting from disputes regarding
conditions of contract and/or general scarcity of funds. Under the project,
the provision of technical assistance t: the PBs as well as the agreed
guidelines for subloans to contractors would assist the PBs in their
evaluation of subprojects.
63.      The risks resulting from fluctuations in demand are considered
minimal given the pent up demand for construction and investment in housing,
infrastructure and productive sectors: the Government, the main client, has a
target annual average growth rate of 8X in the new Five-Year Plan. With
regard to management, the technical assistance component of the project
dealing with management development is designed to overcome this deficiency;
and loans to public sector companies would be associated with technical
assistance to help them overcome their management and technical shortcomings.
Delays in payments from clients generate additional financial costs to the
contractor. The Government has already started compensating contractors for
delays in payments, although at interest rates which are substantially below
the market rates. A more permanent solution lies in amending the conditions
of contracts for public works and preparation of standard conditions which
include the accrual of commercial interest on delayed contract payments. The
work of the JCDCI and contractors' association are expected to give priority
to strengthening contractual, financial and professional practices in the
sector.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.      Ihe draft loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the participating banks
(PBs), and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.      Features of the project which are of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Bank
loan are: (a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the PBs (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a)); and (b) the
employment of consultants for the management development program (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01 (b)).
66.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Wasbington, D.C.
June 1, 1984



- 20 -                                            AM= I
Page 1 of 6
T AB L E 34
EcGY. ARAB RIE. OF    -SOCM  IIrATOES DATA Son
WE'Tr. AM  REP. OF                  RtEPM t= aps (7-IE  AzRAQI) I.
POST                    (HMST RECE   ST I  /b
t96   1970Rb EN         NN OLAE INM            Plan    INCWZ
I 9E0~  1970~ESTTNA1I~k S. AFUTCA4 6  D EASr   LAT. AERICA 4 CARIS
AFA (INEHA 30. no
TOVL                             1001.4     1001.4      1001.4
AGRIaCLTUIM.                       26.3       z8.4       Z8.6
GP       C MM CYA    S               100.0      180.0      650.0           1340.0                   2086.2
R     I Om    m  M  cMM TA
(XEILOCEAS OF COAL EqVXVALE*T)    237.0      312.0      595.0            610.4                   1407.6
FOrELATMO AM VllL STATISTICS
POPlUATION.PMD-T.AR (TOSAND)  25832.0    33053.0    43290.0                 .
IRUS POPULATION C OF TOTAL)        37.5       42.3       ".3              47.4                     65.9
POPULATION PRWXECTIOMS
POPULATION IN TAU 2000 (HILL)                          63.3
StATIONARY POPULATION    (ML)                          116.7
YEA  STATIONARY OP-. REACHEo                          2115
POPMIATIOU DEE IT
PER SQ. KQ.                      25.8       33.0       43.2              36.0                    35.6
PER SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND          982.2     1162.6     1431. Z49.0                                 93.2
POPULTIO AGE STRUCTUOtE (2)
0-14 IRS                        42.2       41.8        39.5             43.9                    40.t
15-4 IRS                         54.7       54.9       56.9             52.8                     55.S
65 AND ADE                        3.1        3.2        3.5              3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROTJI ATE C()
TOTAL                             2.3        2.5        2.5              2.9                      2.3
.URU                              4.0        3.6        2.9              4.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTR RATE (PER flOUS)       43.5       38.5       35.7             42.5                     31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TNOuS)       19.0       15.1        I1.7            12.0                      8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.0        2.7        2.3              3.0                      2.0
FANLT PLANIYC
ACETORS. ANMAL (TNOUS)                     206.0      357.0
USERS CZOF lARRtEO VWMN)           ..        9.0       17.0
FOOD ARD xuirTmoR
INDEX OF FODD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     96.0        99.0       88.0             97.5                    113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF              -
CAlORIES (: Or REJUUASEN)       109.0      107.0      117.0             102.3                   111.3
PROIEINS (CGRMS PER DAT)         78.0       74.0       76.0             72.0                     67.9
OF MHTCH AILO. AND PDLSE        19.0       17.0        19 O0c           17.8                    34.1
CHILD (ACS 1-4) DEATH PATE         34.0         ..       16.4             15.2                      5.3
LIFE EXPECT. AT srRTH (YEARS)      46.1       51.3        56.9             57.2                    64.6
TNFANT HURT. RATE (PER TROUS)     128.0         ..      IIO.OIe          104.2                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (-POP)
TOfAL                              ..         ..        66.O/d           59.3                    "4.6
URUN                             39.5         ..       66.07;            84.9                    77.8
ROUL                              -.          s. S.oTd                  37.5                     44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z or PoPLArTIon)
TrTAL                               .         ..          ..               ..                    54.6
URAN"                              ..         ..          .               ..                     69.8
RWAL                               .          ..          ..              ..                     29.8
POPM %TION PER PmSICIc          2550.0      1900.0      970.0/f         3536.0                   1776.0
POP. PER NUSImC PERSON           '930-0   1620.0/f   1500.07            1820.7                   1012.Z
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TorAL                           460.0      460.0      460.Old           643.3                   477.0
URBAN                           510.01.    360.0      M6AN.o7           565.0                   667.5
RURAL                          2190.07    2170.0     2410.07;7         2462.0                  1921.6
ADISSIONS PER HOSPITAL PED M.                   ..       30.81d           26.4                     27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOL
TOTAL                              ..         ..         5.21d
URBAI                             4.8         ..         S.A7N
RURAL                             --                    S . 57
AVERAGE NO. OF PEBSONS/ROOI
TOrAL                                                   l.8fd
URN                               1.6         ..
XURAL                              ..         ..          .                 ..
ACCESS TO ECT. (2 OF WDLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..       *5.7?d            46.2
URA"                             37.6         ..        76.77            77.6
RUL                                ..         ..        1.6A             16.1



- 21 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TA BL E  3a
EGYPT, ARAB REP. OF    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
EGYPT. ARAB REP. OF                 REFE,2ENCE  OUPS (WlIGHTD AVERAGD) 
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
olb     l'I,t RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOE
1960t      19Eil    (ST DEATh-b    S. AFRICA & MID EAST   LAT. AMERICA A CAMI
nnou
ADJUSTED ENRGtLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:  TOTAL                   66.0       72.0        76.0             89.6                     105.0
MALE                   80.0        88.0       89.0             104.8                    106.3
FEIALE                 52.0        56.0       63.0              72.4                    103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  16.0       34.0        52.0             41.7                     40.0
MALE                   23.0        46.0       64.0              52.8                     38.6
FEAIAE                  9.0        22.0       39.0              31.Z                     1.2
VOCATIOsAL C( OF SECOWNDARY)        22.0       19.0        21.6             10.3                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        38.0        28.0             31.9                      30.7
SECONDARY                         16.0       25.0        24.0             23.3                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATF (2)             25.5                   44.0             63.3                      79.5
PASSESCER CARS/THOUSAND POP          2.8        4.0         S.3/            18.0                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       58.1       133.1       141.9            138.1                     2Z6.Z
TV RECEtVERSITHOUSAND POP            1.       16.0        33.1             45.6                     108.3
NEWSPAPER (CDAILY GENERAL
I NTERESTr) CrRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPUILATION             ..       22.5        60.4             31.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTESDAFCE/CAPITA      2.6        2.1         1.8/h            1.7                       2.9
LABO FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROLS)         7453.0     9Z41.0    11180.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   7.3        7.2         8.0             10.7                     24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            56.0        54.0        50.0             42.5                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               12.0        19.0        30.0             27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             28.9       28.0        25.8             25.6                      31.3
"ALE                              53.2       51.5        47.0             45.4                      49.8
FS3tALF                           4.2         4.1         4.2              5.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIo           1.6         1.6         1.5              1.8                       1.4
INOE DSTRDIBUTW
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS          7.5/i     17.4/ft4    22.0/k
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS        44.47i      42.8 1.    49.27ik
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           6.67?      7.O7Of j
LOWEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS          17.571     18.077ij    14.87,.
POVERTY TARGET CtOUPS
ESTTMATED ABSSOLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAS                               ..          ..      131.0             276.1                    289.8
RURAL                               -.         -.        94.0            177.1                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..       180.0            400.0                     519.8
RURAL                               ..         ..       118.0            283.3                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ASBCLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
ORBAN                               ..         ..        21.0             22.0
RURAL                               ..         ..        25.0             30-8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
S O T E S
/a The group averages for cach Indicator are populatton-welghted arilthetic seans. Coverage of countries asong the
Indicators depends on availability of data and ts not uniforms.
lb  Unless otberwee noted, 'Data for 1960- refer to any year betueen 1959 and 1961: -Dsta for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimte between 1979 and 1981.
Ic 1977; Id 1976; /e 1962; /f Retistered, o3t all practicing in the country; Ig 197S; lh 1975; /I Rural expenditres;
-   j 1965; /k Ratroeal. 197-75.
May 1983



-22-                                                                           ANNE I
Pag,e 3 af 6
DWlaWtI   OF SOCIA  liICUtlU
istata  Ilteabact be date aa Sta.. tea  .ana  gamatali JOIPaId i0 mat mtbaeitatiaa asd 1e,1cbi. I. RamidV  aim  ha ando thiBkyma l                        S1 Fdth   atataautiamailp
ea.camt  haea of ila 1ath .aIf aadt    dalttaita.  and  -teat   eaad bydLftas  actila                                 ch.tcteI   dita.  lb. data an.  -towalac. ccac  ta
~cef. .d.. at Oaaatad.. idicata teed.. al ea-.e.-tata  tatitsja  diifasrsnaae  bat..  casual m.
Bt an e."a.a  e .11 it) . ..-  -tas p arac.  .1 hi. .abi.at  -aater aad 42) *  amta Samp  Iut% amint Mbaie  *aarmg  lain  tUNaI BkW mntep ae    ol the
.amiaea n-a., b.-.t i.-  'iIm.b Im..-' 111t apet    araedp Wl. luiddia isaame, maIth Selca. aS ildita  bat' ha than ea.   at .   wail                  . maeia-almatta
cfttic . Is h. _t.iaea    a..p. data ti. aaaa_a  c   partata tm .mtcbtcd artifatla  -sc  C.e  -ah iadta.tair as  a  allpk      1  tIbAW   Jestert   astoao aaatlea B. a
*acp c   ..tetm.tdta.ita tim  e.aeasat aaaeta                              c  a      dlatara          IIp I -thi. aaaltchtlltv at data . aS  Ba mea asia     -as-a ~ant be
attia   a  act. L., eeci.,- at-    oittt  aI aah Th..1c.                       ..IaFaar  s     acala  It ama ta aba walam  at, RmWtivtar At A att  .msesa at.  -arata  cad
WeAta ah .aa  mq.bm.. 3                                                                           Paamtm ice lltala.-   lpaata  divde   bainaer at ptRaCtIttle
wtt- ittal c.eta. caac l,Iwprelcta  I.d a-  ..W t.atan              [Oka.ratU ini.                                                           --stc  abm  at mteeta  lead.
iitcd.edt.Fatsta-    tl   Ffa      t.a.   diiad  .e paceat1 amatwta
le   c ..  ctrs.abtac   ..tb  &eedecc ale Ia ie fallen  195.                              marcale  . atlhateta..
gave II  RMin ea...Pnale-   b. taI hB" - tatal. Iabae. . t    -.va  - ftapatati   Itatal.
te... tad acea  dta" b7 abl, taapcei'a cba. aitberates boda
GMwrimCWtarlTS)Atfsl - a  Pae "aPit. aatta   at eaeea  aahc   ac.                                    altaila ha PMht   a  petelala mlamact mad cPactah1md ia.aplfIt  Pad
bat   y t  a    aa.ecia  aihd -  liarS tad  cala. 0a111-aI ba.);.                           rababtltcttm 1  eate.%                   O.tac  t  ctabehiataic. tmm.nmaatly atdatta
in.tilt.  ad ilal at...                                                                       by at lacci an pbymletc   fttab ttmaatc pate-B49  pe.t-licl B   datsIst
aacs ae  tat tgladd.  .,Iae h" laatala               I-I.aSeatad  twaltas"
tucaw aaatlWrmntt  POm CAITA - ac-I  ppacet                    desa.lm   ateaeta                     aatecaaet p.easaaleci I=atttd by a phyaltia  tC me by a  sia
WIcaIT -acam  tril  ad     I.a.t. aae m.aiem    a  as  yr-  ata.caact  ac ...wdatt. at..? "SINhatriaala   cacaiaa
as acat.caael  tect::It ,   IIa ila-a 'at a-I  -tlaett.aPtt.;                                W.aeld   aI Ititd  .ce. ci "'ai"  Icallst laa.  ear ,tattattasi em'pp
asset. Ll'O. ." loso 4.                                                  'r", h~~~~~~~atylapc. l.a  ateta   cmptl a    ahela   .ctaenlte"  _aaaa
POLAeTestc  ta UP    j sarvrc                                                                       ipattalta1 baPttcla a-  tatiaJad call'. c       ae teL.
Total accl-i.. clca   a- adt                   t Jat, 1; ttw0. titit. as  in,                  Sataa       -emctc  had - TI.9. Oamas-. attlcm    . cv dt.ebaca
data,                                                             ten  mapti ala dield~~~~~~~~~~~~~al, ea t. atba. at bad..
-aa  Caltla.  A.eacc  at70 acol  lq  atac.1 aacaa    at  apatam
ecca   ecmetc ; faG  lae  as-1 .I iti data.                             0                  aa tir..cI.tth.t   Uaceda. -.  Smhld)I   -ytatc . ia SaSli taea
i.aittaeajctsa                                                                             - IAz W  l  aty  "II    hm....Ald ca-tat  .1 a- men, at  Ad`i.!amcac.le.   ma
~~Tiiim~i!ltte tarsal  apatettoe etcceatc..  tea haed -  hM.                 cadab  t Pct.a.          a  aada  cctdaraeaaapa.bal go.l"                  
TW~as.a     f.5-c ta  ta--ta  aatLtyasi.e.I hit?%A- LI"..ceal  Ccc1s.    - aceicttal                               atma .     aMR-et,t                   Ol
ecta.  Pc .at .a   ...ccae  ace  c  LL .  hat . lca-.c at.-Ie.                      _acja  .jha  atP."..             rs     aa.  tc.asai    ecq 
icc..  lb  pcen,aa   tatfartt tt  tal  eta  mc I th.. ta..i                     ecacapaINi pact..1
etc-let   cttaaa    ahaaae       i.a.caa    ..aF-%im                                           caalaa   aitd aI.,.tth  laece  I                1.4htn  4mactee  Ad vs.a
agt  h   lt  eat, t  IIIqcc   a theIl teeth eta. as ala. ia. %a                   ttCCTi-I
aaeaaoa  acmata  caataa.  m. l~aahc Pa Rsip attte actic cte tata
dcalt  t  tc tael.aataaat ttto ..til   c  eaetd.tlaa c Ia V          .m.aI'laacal.ehaa-tI-.&.  acla, tad  Ife-t  -eaaa " tatl. do ad  i-cia
papci It..tic.  a attacta  cm at.   mititaciclteaac r0M    l,Iae ic ate    plaIclaatm tt  Iatlca  abRaacdhal
"atcataaP",;ltl,  ti  t   ac   ltl cdt.mci  ti at              atYc.  baa. adjatta  tat dlffea-t Wllctaa    es  a etc    a
F lvatyet   teeaaattr-           teI.-tnttc m.ftatcm    dtia  a..l-cI  ca-   aaaad Itoo laaaalt
Teatctcteacc  acalatta ittat    Thd . PI- ae.maacccapae                                        eeal aII.      hate at abaa.ah  afftlalat a a  am..
Hapcit n   t. cll ~   eaa.Ieatactat-ttlml  a  taaaa a Ccptat As mbasaal catadar
lseatat ta. bade,                                                 Smomit lam aaiateas at Lacca tea  esata tt aip-atd patae, L.tctegaesa,
- mae-tat  Waaat . ace   ma h  1-.. taa ha-tc-) at                                  -cI.agcaa,maaaa   W-.c tecb    esi  lsceaatIc-F fae
taet s; t.iilo. ..d ur   ct.pplccaal at,.F."                                                    -1       ii ta,1 itme  at ca; tetmead.ta aa c    rat.
e.acl.ttl   . taceace  (ecact) -tI Mesa-  ll.iI  -caca. cachi-aca fIS-                     laIadc tct.tc,  m             Lta. at ae-.  ca~Raa em.ie aecacta- Lsaa
ha  eai,  s  attadtin  ta. ca  aaclatetecIIa  attal     ai-ae.                                         c.Vnaa  at  caadryl la-,aala
e.accctitl; tinti, talc,cad  At= date...24                                             Wtaai-taab   ati --atae. aIL aRada. tclaaat  ac tadt
Neoicaiac   aacah tat.aaaaeaati   tca.l - tmasa' ce-b  cat.. ofa-cl aId-  Isc.. as ceataca laac dlctdU dbyIa. cbettat tanba .a1             I tba IIc
.aar eam".eci.  asWn-o    tetl   n   aht.                                                        e-paal.ma  ccal,
eapl-tlttttif-t  iat,.etl,t                                                                      ae.t~   Cac aaaaalta   cdi  e.aa  cadW  .Wi-
ecaltt;  am,  i,  WaSliii  ee.~                                                           'ace aaatFa Am  tha  alaht   raC,;      a-lad. aicet.  I       btLta  Cat WL
"a..                                                                                            ilnasadPr.,L.  -ttat.teaaa  I-a etantagn. .ttcSa   aattica   al
ttleClea.. -aacaace   ca-   leis.aac)    casca cabc  f aceptea            aam mcTV    .tFaa; daatteetTVa sae   -   E., e cttml  cWe  -
at .mlidtm..tmmsmae  lt.j Ceaa l        c.m  l   tmi.at.tdat,1-I--,,ci.-mti   asa-    ciealm  atM.t act    -a., I atnt
illa.. a  aa. I.a.. mcc  -m                                                           t~~  ac-- m at-mt  :.I..iafaet hoaamd c mWl man - them L  a'i. s.tI-aa
a..mtM..Captl                           ICm  m.pIt-'mm4.I-                                                             a...mi ateas  .oaae             r-m . de'lcad a..a eidii
t..a  cad   . a  alema    .  had....-tt  CaaLiie   cs   meca amecda a..t.                    Cimaca macacti  catacar jace Cam-it.la   iclc -It.c-  an ticrtase awt
aacccemI  iaaea  at" aa.et m.im  yead.   ama Ipl-    t. catlacelmtcC-..tabtts.mt  dcelca tIcm   W   tma4.Lmai.qcal.atec-aetcta
ma'a.mttcc. acmac      FM  W."ec   edcta  at acdi comma,- elm t..- a.a-mt.i itRZ
hem   -  mataii eemapedae  Imt         - citma  dim.hiI  -tR. cat  `it
raemact. t.caia atcdai.meI       Xaesta  eateaoina-- Coptd,ami!j!ef!c ea   tane                                                            l  teat.- RactioaIsc, 3" catica  e
ctmaicico     tc          s     arI    atct   ceace    .   clcp                               ae.  c   mcaea at.1PP..     asida   cas.aa   amta le.. mt-etma
da.   c4laiaacei.  aapla  dntat  faeeas  laet  la                                              clmltmacCal ct.   btltcm    avalcmemitta   -a  a
aapaett codz tb.cas Ia-tae, y       t  aqlin  "a.yc    amlccl. taamd  Wcd.af  m                              WOll   e   a    aa
aactl Ic tc IIstt    pe.nn..ca  tIce  It data  At.  f -yanJ  - ta                                                   _ iaa  teca a pwtaeaIf . a  Ratat Babe- tae .
Basectcae   aImat  by Al  o laced -.  almcctaila  ae,  a  intact                                7             - -aimme ata IF. Waatlcm.R)' tata tep. imeicla ast
teitlaya5 bcit  tasldete   Asiett  taete.fd    A-mma                                    Tiiir Wita   at eec  i*a  taeja.t immit tW IarS I1 tI  di.A
ath' h0aL,1cd laaI .-,: tint-    S. tl  ca. lStdaa                                                cad cttammtI..     icel.   an1 cc Pacaentaa at.  1 sat Ictttacla  limo.
Catacate  aid   o!,pa!1zpa~!~a   -  emteiacaceat.1  ee  cpia                      llflca NiA  dta
cI aaeiac  detal ma.-   ecmacea. ta  te  sed,rm.eam  mm. tmi  b                                 C.eimc  my  t.mtta   ae
thrdaatdTe   laay:tii-t.lainae   m. n..                                                 .%..csd ma         larttaIl -atic  traaleaa,-I. ae IcdS   d.ea
L,tt.lace? a                                                                                                         _aatLiTla
Ph       " aa   -i  .c.ct'laelmmai -9W Scml iMaa  we. thm.s.adI                          acM ia sat ictea    Lcaa  _bcb i  scb  dbtd      a ala              . cba.t
tac arE iataa   .mica   scI   m  aemma,;-f   1    I     ia"s.daacl.                               aac,  iica ta atat. pactlC  pc... p..-eci topaea aFt
-tin   aacttate a  mleh  vacal-  ce.wt. c.le  tlae  a   a . tcrcalLttmta                        llltfh          tmc    aet.y.acaee -lie   cc.icc-a a   Ra.e t0a mal.a
ca  irt; tme.     -I. aeVa  dcc                                                          sica _ d ta,  0-_ _ld hab ttactaeri  cub eccald.ea jIa camel...0   ,a
tSca  ieAllt  tat  tactlciacaml -: b mpa1 dathim at lates  m..mdFeas tckttdccmtt Camacet, lara- tact_tats  ce lacetic) a: .teha as neat
_te _- at s.f. hietcya  Faf  ,   IIatls p- at. 4W.arebaslad aca -. asetalI    dat   Iepm.caiaa    ctdrqlaat   sa
malaF cc pispic% chla.  seya. I.m  eIr  atada       .scm.    cii   c.                            tcdha
P..amacaa   acaa   s.cy  a%. satte  tcsaet   actlai.  aPe-tam..ImavIeBtnat.tIat.ictaatath.ItseeeI.tyl
seSom  at ab tasebld a at  bse.s. t  aaami a dlpaticartaqvceeet.  of1v                                                                        l sa1lc
traM    i.tathiamat.tintytm  iner  acd.-ta   1I             fp,I- tAl e.L   aa.
11"e- aaa    7jiI  (a- al.t- heam,acd  cciI aacbysae



23
WW-    - 
Poooca  43.3 qUlije tao" 1913                                                                                                          
W  -. cim i        5 8s 0 .1 (1963 d.ur.)                                                                                         yin  of a
Amoe Cmifltia
tmcc                                       AN NDWUAL  CROBT    RATES   Co
pr e)                 ACTUAL                                       imr_        PROJEKCTED
191312       1975   9197   19fl  1918   19v9 V908   196l132  19321    196314  Ileum5                       W
Gem o_ic. ?u e f              Z 52940         9.3    4.3    U.?   3L0    9l7    6L7          7-4      4.9      4.0      4.       4.        4.0
Ss _u ie                    437-0         461    1.4   -3_0    5.6    4.2        3-5      3.0      2_5      2.4      3.4       2_7      2.5
1.&.r   /                   4159.0        10.7    a5 32   I0    7.9             7J_       7_3      3L5      34       7.8       7..      7.S
ie_relo                     34230         40.4   Si?   34.5   22_0   10.3        L9   6 t          4.0      43       8.0       3.O      4.5
s5rvica. a/                10725.0         9I.  tlS    16_9    4.0   13.2    10.2         9.9      *_t      4.9      -.2                 4
oWCia.                        2033L.0.l      -0.3   1105    L       44    93        .        7.6            SS 42                4.0   S_
CGee 1ee.omm                   7543.0        44.5  -ILt_   25S5   10-5   to16      2_79    109         .       4.0      5.S      41       4.
_eec. of 5ms                   7942.0        27_.2   30.8    59    3.1  0_.        9.5      10.1      4.1      5.2      7_2      7.0 
reprs ef miS                  11643.0        1.-1   -3-3   234    4.3   13         9-4      9.0    -1.7        3.9      L        49       4.5
cera p_tiel Soame              409.         174.0   50.1   591   23:4   -3.4    -4.         04.!      -        -        -
Duflator                                     45S3   50.9   5S_0  642   741    91.8    100.0           -        -        -
c        Mac. .1                             2315  2_21    2.07   1.I_ S.43    1.33          1123     -        -        -
Sre, of Cr me Morbee Price. CZ)                    Aeuee lerme.. CZ) at Co et1b Prices
(ae cerrue atpime                          1965 Frice. 1975 Price.   193/5 Prc
194   1970  1975  1979  19011t  1961132  19417            3901910   1970-1975  1951919 VT2II
C_~~~~~~~~~~~" 0I7   19                 9
aricdler.                27-9  25.3  23_2  19.9    19.2        1-9     1462           4.7         5_1   2_ 0   2 .5
- Iader 4 e2cr.ln cl   23.7  M4   2428  34.1    3              33.0     49.0      2                 .4  lt8            7.4
-se       4o              42.9  bOl8  42.7  42.2    40.3       43.4     43.3           6.3         4.4      11.       47
Caee..priee               87.3  90.4  87.7  85.8    35.9       84.3     8Q2            4.4         30        7.7 
Cuss  1aveeC=Mw           133   M3.9  33.4  32.      29_5     29.9     30.8             I         42        7.9        .4
e310.5of GM               19.5  14.2  202  297    33.4         31.5     349            4.9        2.        1.2        4.6
sIe  .1 aiS               20.1  U1.   41.3  4L.3    48.8       44.1     47.0            .         1M5        3          5
Grce. W ;emn  S_ia        13t .9   7.7  13.2  21.J    19.2     1462     19.9           7_2        17.2      270         -
1940   1910   1975   191.9   1960113  196170-  19W213
umLC FZTA
I      so_re               V5      21-3   29_2    me0    46        4tL2       n l1
CM    Ro_Wiier             Zl_S   7_0   4tLS   35-        39_2      4iLI      Q0z
Gersc Surplu C) or
Deficit C-)              -3.0   -0.7  -1_3   -4.5         3.4      0.1      -1.3
1.esetweec fa_euiter       11.5   11.1   17_2   20.0      Z1.7      23.8      20.0
F__wmp Fiseecim             -      -       539    49-      6.4       5.9       6_
1940-70  1970-75 1975-60 1183-F!DD
C  Gat:h Law, )               4.5      5.0    11.3     7.5
cW_w capica    t
TO  CL)                     1.9     3.7      &.7     4.7
2mmm.  Iemte    - 
rate CZ) f                          14.9    132      4.
-IaK                          -       -        3.4     4.1
Dougimi S i5_s RDae           -       -        0.46    0.19
Tamt Elaaticiv                0.9     1-7    0e9       0.9
.1  osd ON UsrId Demk hue.- e.th.dete7 (trbe ,ar a-Wesge sewbaeeras
b W  for 196182 et ceriest pri-e_ is valued at abet  ice.  strl ar    do,   fater eec.
ciNemfacturieg eel mjii.  Icltracie. sd Qc.rcgia.
c7 Discribution and service sctors.
~;I Ui*cad 0vera_   .f all C.wt c-e cc_ee ies. iuldiue teleactia.. wedr the frue we .rt ve.
it feetritit7 _..
asao
se _tsr 193
(420J



Pae 5 ef
PpapIciou   43.3 will<  (aid 1981)
GM Per capit& 1V6 C1951 dollars)
_NDCt IzlaS                      Amos Growth Rate CZ) at Cono*cr_ 198118Z Prices
5: cstao
prices)                          ACTUAL                                  EST_       P a O J E C T E D
1981812    19t     1976    1977    1978    1919   so/8"    8l2          82/U    1318.   8V685   85186
EXrRWL TRAE
Nerchandia. Exports           5779       27.2    19.5    310        7.7      8.5      6.7    121    -1_3       4-4      7.5       7.3
-  Prianry w!                  570      -L5.-     -.      25.9   -29.9       S_t    -9.9       8_8    -3.3      7_:4    43         3_6
_ M f       f  br              540       266   -14.5   -27.6    18.2   -30n1   -10_6   -12.6    -8.2            4.9      6-4       6-9
-   e      s E                669        72l    63.2       I_1     16.1    21_1       9.5    16-2    -0.1       4.0      8.1       7.8
Nercamia. iseorts            10380       15.3    -5.0    -1.0       8.5    128       10.6      5.4    -2_4      4.1      6.6       5_1
-Food                         260        27.3    17.0   -181      25.8    -1_2      19.6      8_1     0.7    24        7.6       3.7
-  Fecrolev                    505      -34.2   -23_3   -53.3       3.0   -1.0    -0.2    68.3        o_4      6-1      8.5       5.6
-  Mcbinery end Equict    3175          62.4    24.8     21_3    -0.7    28.9    10.1   -11.6    -9.1          7.1      5.4       6.4
- Otc                         4020       20.1   -26.2    10.7       7.S    119       6-3    10_0      9.9      2.7    6IL         5.1
Primea
Exporc Price Index                       56.1    54.3    57.0    57.7    32.9   109.0   100.0    95.9   101.9  I1119             121.8
rxworc Price Index                      63S5    67.6    74.9    81.0    93.6   106.4   100.0    98.8   105_6   113.1  l21J7
Terms of Trade Index                     U8L3    80.3    761       71.2    886    102.4   100.0    97.0    96.5    96.9    100.1
Coposiciou of Merchandise Trade (Z)   Average Amal Increase CZ)
(at current prices)           at ceostaw 1981182 prices
1975    1979   sOt81   81182  85/86        1975/79  F182rFT86
Ezports                                                                         9.8       4.7
Prissy _t                      28.1    13.7       9.6    9.9   12.9         -6.1       3.0
Manufacturesk/                 46.7    15_.    10.5    9.3    9.8          -15.3       4.0
Pecro1ewme,                    25.2    70.9    79.9   80.8   77.2           26.8       4.9
s_ort-                                                                          1.9       3.9
Food                           23.6    22.8    26.1   25.8   25.0            2.9       3.6
Pettrleve                       6.9      3.1      3.2    4.9    5.1        -26.5       7.2
achbinery                      23.7    37.4    36.6   30.6   30.6           17.2       2.7
Othes                          45.8    36.7    34.1   38.7   39.3           -3.1       3.3
Saeiv of Trade with        Share of Trade vich                 Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (2)   Developing Coutries CZ)         Capialz   Surl  Oil Eporter- (S)
1965  19tO  1975  1981   1965  1970  1975  1981              1S    1970    1975   1981
DzIECrIOg OF TUDVE
Exports                  27.0  17-0   1460  52.0   18.0  22.0  10.0  36.0               1.0      10       4.0   3.0
Primary               29.0  19.0  18.0   -    17.0  22.0  11.0    -                   -       1.0      3.0     -
Msmfactures           19.0  12.0   3.0    -    23.0  23.0   9.0    -                 4_0      3.0      5.0    -
Laporte                  55.0  42.0  65.0  75.0   18.0  25.0  14.0  13.0                -        -        4.0   1.0
at Based on World Bank Atla aetbodoloxy (thre  vear average exchange rate).
bi Not including oil  d oil products.
cI Iacludes oil companies, exports.
EMIDA (0236J-Revise)
9.29.83



- 25-~
*d o
wr5    - N84L*uM or Famo2.           LD CMTL am nUe
(0111sap urn mecrrs  a.c..)
BS_            F t O~a  J x C T 1 D
1971    1975    1976    1977    1975   1979   190131  19616         19135          35    195136   19661&7
of  od. -4   o-_FoMt.
S*V.i.                                  251    2503    3319    3_        40     50  7# 3          796        67         8460   l     lo00     11          13360
-   fih                                  Isli. t -  13 t13  577S  t69    236    25S1   397    5617  5779      5s4          GOD        AM0        320         900
It-e .    of   C   f    -Facrt
S.                                    -395    -51.1   -51,3   -S7    -4612C -7S   -1140. -11465            -11300     -1231O      -14240     -16090      -17990
-of _ib ge.t_ai             f cs.       -3615   -4C0    4659   -S110   -599  -737  -tl331   03=                9m    -D1100         -12630    -34290       -159S0
sac Factor booz                             70     1;       .3      .n72    16   1376    1190        151         60         730        630        630    *     30
U! Pricee TV..fo                           4.7      90      57      63       51     39      63        51         30          40         so          50         60
Co.! Acc.oeoo 3.1..                     -159b   -2126   -13.3   -1I656   -1361  -1915   -2318    -3501        -240       -3010       -34o0      -3730       -'1D
P.r..!. Ora0 t to...at                     57      M25     44        77 3*    7   ISI6    103b      1325       110         1650       l3De        1940       2130
Pax Eap. -jd C.. (NS)                     69     269     617      730    1141   1o01     12;       9s5         950       1470       151         20zo       1595
- official 1.. a a        -               -3I      710     490 e    03    10W5    749    1020        915         60         990       1150        1400       1.75
-    -c.                                   90      5s      t57     -73      113   274      27        *s         14         41          660        s00         420
e. MIX Fiopeci.m .1                        357     a0n    -400    Its&      305   -305     -6        576         74        -           -            20        3s$
1otall saboot. 21                        1053    1121      676    .915   -4.72   -3   50 IS          615       -61          110       -150       -o00        -200
I.Coioapiol   .           if              536      b7s     4.7     S       1501    00    1697       2313       23         -           -          -            -
- of _         pc geld                    102      lo0     12      101U  10    10.    103             7m                   -          -
-rnrw  -  Moor3 loo-C.                    1.7      L3      1_.7    2-1    3L0    1.7       2.0       2_7        2.9       -           -           -           -
W3M*L ePML M    DE=
Cm    D-o--.c.                          2765    3527   7213    3236    775    2z2         Z562      3032       3102        3.70       3555       42C         49D
Official c.-c-.                       1761      986     705     37       291     72     279       395        400        482         s.         597         662
C.o.-..  l la.                         120    14 1        S.B    155    1400     M     1276      1031f 941              90          3s          S0         969
-                                       55      199     421     591      77    533    1103       900         798        727         46         75s         5s0
- arm                                    3    X1-1    in        137      93      43      69       7           1is          6          I          0           0
- IA                                    12:     -9       .2      42      45      55      48      s3          136        1"          1o          62          32
-   ehv.                                Se     s5        34.   les     663      65      56        is         it         27           460                   67
Xo-C-..rn...1   :..                     0o    1092      3&S4    D0.9    867   1723    1007       1653       149t       2081        2453       2781        3034
- official .75ont edic.                379     639    271.       2    4          50 s     3      1is         292        339         312        406         131
-                                       -       14_       36     37       57    115     14.6     II          120        253         330        337         4Z9
.ctil eol:icrl                         -        6       -      256      1is      5       4        t          27         24          37         36          5o
- Pn,.o.                               425     4.33     595     732      Als  10s5      774     133         1052      U14          1750       1955        2121
cap rio                                                                                                         250           0          0          20        315
Eatarval Dfb
0-3t O.C.a."OK <a drokorood              2330    4.5    5770    692    992    1141L  13653    14956           1599        17312      36877      2004.       21560
- offici.l                            1990    3910    *720    68b4    850 *     55    12o    11932         377t       13054       13741      14523       15352
- W                                    3S0 9o *lS    Wso    1273    14         1557    2725     3021        353        4           424        5331        5750
- to  fiocie                                                                                                 139        189         189        210         435
g.diob.r".  DKc                          1402    242b    3011    1515    4        44      5951      s013         99         979       7269       65b1        572..
D.6t S-voice
-acal S ,ic, p      .t                    542      4.    795    1010    1190   1246    2061         23n        2540        23S2       3239        3401   * 230
- io.t                                 156     190      274     361     4.15    425     759      912        1100       1225        1320       1319        142
-   Wm a. : rC   _                    22.0    23.2    20.1   72.6    21.5   17J        21.3     24.3        25.1       27.1        27.0       24.4        27.3
h ae  ..   Ra.  M. L_             6.3     4*7      5.1     5.1     1.6    6.4      6.5      7.3        10.0       10.0        30.1       10.2       10.3
o f f e an1
_ ori-t.
A_r. MQr,  of -.. Lt  (....                17.2    1835    23.3    15.7    27.9   21.5    19.5       16.9       14.4        14.7       14.3       14.2       142
- official
- pri-t.
I1  lot oiais spacial beao. .f pawogo.C  fieotci p      t MA gltoeCaed ito_.
21 lig_* (-) iodicat. scco.cit           of for-imp -_a._.
it  Fp.in  40-06   a0  C-ocrat I ok.
11  M-_cboi_w opl-_
51  Iscl.i.om   p.ci-l bk.1_e of say.e. r_-
61f 3.9C.- of awd- -d ..vco-. _c iacladius foeriu oil co_s.i. -    _wmS
310I. (02347)
9.29.53



- 26 -
A II
ME -m OF am g mm    m o xr
A. S-US  CF NM TOM AM            111 1I
CM o Pat hib 3L 1984)
A-    in scai  us dumU
r _              -        aws    PmCGm Ca_In
o -            FT                                                     -m        M     13diuhml
21 Iam ar       t f,ul  did;  2V                                       465.0   257.8        -
in 1W6           75         S-        anr oa1  -mli-t                   50.0      -         5.3
o 1239           76         AA        Alemodria  ge                     45.0      -       -135
in 12s-T 3       76         Am Pdt a  Vt                   l .          5LO      -        1me
Ct 637           76         A.,P UBF            t  riC   H-    40.0                         2.1
1. 128m5         76         AEpW T           PA  hDC       H            10.L      -         9.3
Ia 1369          77              A      1W   J cia tsr Suly             532       -        13.6
>  19            77         AE        lk1e Datas      e H                 -     27.0        LO
a 1439           77         AE        Nile  ITs DimW U                  27.0      -        1Z2
In  4O-T 31      77          JE Dela hin  H                             12.0      -         6.3
C  77.           78         AE        T-a1a o  i                          -     53.0       12.6
CF83M           78          aE        1Aa!inz     _rnIt                   -     32.0        9.1
r a1n            78          AE       Urbo Dna                            -     14.0        7.6
C.- 850         79          AE        P      qpLaim H                     -     25.0       10.5
Qr 86S           79          AE       Ficim II                            -     40         12.4
Ia S-IC          79         hIE       1v %h1ev hit, Fxgiiu c E
- Tedzical Asistam  11.0               -         3.2
o  909           79         AM           1                                -     325        21-6
taL'32           79          AE       Calf ofSE    CM                   75.0      -         0.1
c  935           79         ha                   - El      _ . r          -     37.0        5.5
in D3}           79          A         b       El h im aI _   Pw 41  M0           -        86.9
cc s         so80       hs         kpviguie                           -     45.0       8L8
.a 1ft06        8OD         no            l D      tz 1 hsb rI          50O0      -         2.7
I Ua12           80         AE                                          30.0      -        22.8
Q- 1,            80 SDE               C-rn Gasa Diracrtim                 -     50.O        -
Zn 1819         ao          JE         WIP And P.                       50.0      -        26.6
Zt 1886          SD         EFA             III                  -       7.0      -         7.0
o 1052          80          EB         Rr  m                              -    120.0       34.5
or 1369          at         AE          mctioI  51                        -     4o.1       2-2i
a 19211         81            =       sestr   it Eqil                   25.0      -         0.2
e M3             a          Aa        NM 1Id _rn1s 5                      -     80.0       67.4
r lilt           81         AE        Fisb Fs     5                     -       B1.O        9.9
Zt 2002          SI         PIXSB   Bdisolb Nilitstion                  64.0      -        60L1
gr1156          8E          AE        Be eir 5Ier Swpgiy/                 -     56.6       45.0
c 1162           81         AE         U1     Asis                        -      6.9        5.9
Yn Z1            82         AE        T1inuicstim IH                    66.0      -        61.0
m 2374           82         DUN            GPM=Iiuhstda -- V            M0       -        66.1
In 2103          82         E         Abu Qir Get 11tI=          91.0             -        5L2
To 2376          82         AE          S,aer aizn  W   & wl            59.0      -        57.7
Tat2383          83         AE         El Dildils Part                  0        -       130.0
>223           83          ARE                - xie                    81.2      -        79.9
Zn 226c          83         AE        V           Traini                38.0      -        37.7
ra 2W20          83         ME    P rxwtio  !awiuq Sadmp  mb.  4L15               -        414
Ia22             83         AE         El W)&ira&  pimEil hr           1653       -       16.1
In 233D         83          AE        P     biztme         1            24.0      -        21.0
In 2352          at         AE          arr supply md       Eat.         4.0      -         4.0
Tatou1.SM2   97L9    1257.8
GE ubIi* at ber  maid                                                  135.4    2.7
Tm1 mu atatmiiu10.789.8   9682
Sd                                     7.5
OfaA  h    bee zpaid                         7.5
Mhsi row leld br  uk ad M%                                            1.73J.8   96L2
1/ l   CCof dw  wDsct listed in Pat A is dezibad in a   _             an  a s M*fUK figd p
in -     a  id    is muOdd  Pw I yu1v  id cixculaCad to  w Dtis  Da Mctcr   bril 3D  -d (        3L
2/ 1hd. 3 c       s fir .eqiownz  %&iid, w*n inhevenc1y xxfio . m  a 18 minion *w aWae med
fo the CaluD cairo Ikb hve1w  fRoinct.
31 Un2d  Yioa  1.
/ Yht iw 11 is E8 Special Atiai Cdit 20 af 10  llini  eQairnle_
-f Oahe Aiggd in  Rs. A                o is US$ qxiuksl at tim  of  tiutigcr  fc f  the J   I adUS
e-ziv1e  at Ib i  31.  8 f&r te duzlisbmd       .
1~ ebt v effuetiw.
Apil 26. 1986
(023  1 &Z. pitcb 15)



- 27 -
Page 2 of 2
B.  fLT<   OF IEC INDE15fES
(As of !1c  31, 19B4)
Fiscal
Year   Cbligr                   PVe of dBsiless                               Total
76, 82 Avab Ceramic O&uvw   Cezrad lckz stry                 6.63    1.11      7.74
78   Xile Clothirg 0mrmar   Beadv4bde Garnt I1rs           0.43    0.16      0.59
78   De1ta Supa QuWrW           PFucl Ed n,                20.00    3.51    23.51
mainly stuar
79, 83 Imili  Ifisr PLltry   Food and Food Prmessirg         1207    2.35    14A42
80. 81 Isumilia Fish          Food and Food Processia        3.74    L05       4.79
Faimirg Mgz, n9
80    Iez Ceumet Conrw    Buildiug Materials               30.00      -      30.00
84   El-Dikbeila             Iwo and Steel                 95.20    7.2D    102.40
81   Iwor Hotel              Crocodie Tourist Project     4.41    0.72      5.13
ibal goss commitnts                                         172.48   16.10  I858
less: Cawellatitios, t,   repWets
and sales                                        84.34      -      84.34
Total coainets nw beld by IEC                               8814   16.10   104.24
btl Udisburse                                               10.42   10.02   1OA4
(0231T-2)



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of Z
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sbeet
Section I - Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Time taken by agencies to prepare
the project:                            11 months (June 1982 - May 1983)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project:   Steering Comaittee of Ministry of
Development, Housing and Land
Reclamation and participating banks
(PBs), Bank Misr and Development
Industrial Bank
(c) Date of government request to
the Bank:                               June 1982
5d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                May 1983
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations:    June 1984
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness:          November 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
Ci) Government to sign contract with consultants for management
development program (para. 48).
2.  Other special conditions are:
Ci) Government and Bank have agreed on two-year program for translating
the reforms of the constructioijcontracting industry study in key
areas into concrete programs (para. 46).
(ii) Government to onlend the line of credit and technical assistance
components to the rBs at the Bank rate plus 1.5 percentage points
(para. 53).



- 29 -
ASNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) PBs would onlend funds to contracting companies under guidelines
agreed with the Bank (para. 56).
(iv) Subloans would carry a minimum fixed interest rate of 14Z; the
interest rate structure would be reviewed to reflect cbanges in the
cost of similar alternative funds, and the new rates applied to the
uncomitted portion of the loan (para. 57).
(v) Other onlending features include: a free limit of UStl million for
individual subloans; minimum economic and financial rates of return;
Bank review of the first three subloans from each PB for subloans to
contractors; subloans to public sector contractors would be
accompanied by technical assistance packages; PBs would exercise
best efforts to maximize subloans to private sector companies; a
maximum subloan amount of USt5 million; and all bid packages for
construction equipment exceeding USS2 million would be procured
under ICB (paras. 55, 56, 58 and 59).






