Document of
The World Bank                              CFILE Cop
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4721-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJBC T
May 24, 1984
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Egyptian Pound (LE)
US $ 1.19         =   LE 1.00
US $ 1.00         =   LE 0.70 (Central Bank Pool Rate)
'US $ 1.00        =   LE 0.84 (Commercial Bank Pool Rate)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
BM                     Bank Misr
CBE                    Central Bank of Egypt
CCIS                   Construction Contracting Industry Study
DIB                    Development Industrial Bank
EB                     Executive Bureau
EEC                    European Economic Community
EFC                    Egyptian Federation of Contractors
EIB                    European Investment Bank
GOE                    Government of Egypt
GOHBPR                 General Organization of Housing, Building and
Planning Research
ILO                    International Labor Organization
JCDCI                  Joint Committee for Development of Construction Industry
KFW                    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIBOR                  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MDHLR                  Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation
OPEC                   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
TOMOHAR                Training Organization of the Ministry of Housing
USAID                  U.S. Agency for International Development
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Loan and Project Summary .........................................  (iii)
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ...............................................                     1
A.  Project History         ...................................... .                  I
B.  Role of Construction in Development ..........................                    1
C.  The Egyptian Construction Industry ..... ..............                           2
D.  Strategy for Further Development .....           ..............                   9
II.  THE BANKING SECTOR .........................................                     14
A.  Financial Institutions and Construction Industry Lending                         14
B.   Interest Rates and Exchange Rates .....              .......................    16
C.  Participating Banks ....... ..............., .......                             17
Development Industrial Bank ..............         ..     ................    18
Bank Misr ........................................                           21
III.  THE PROJECT ..................................................                   24
A.  Objectives and Scope ......            ...................................       24
B.   Project Description                ..........................................   24
Financial Assistance .......................................                 24
Technical Assistance .......................................                 26
Management Development Program .................. . .       ....    26
Joint Committee for Development of
Construction Industry                     . . .    34
Participating Banks ......          ............................      36
C.  Project Implementation ......................................                    36
Lending Arrangements ...... .............             ...................   36
The Credit Component .................        ..        .............       36
Subproject Appraisals ...............................                       37
Free Limits        .......................     ........................     37
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk .................            .     37
Procurement and Disbursement .............         ..       .........       38
Technical Assistance for Management Development   . .39
Technical Assistance to the Joint Committee for
Development of Construction Industry ....................                 39
Technical Assistance to Participating Banks               ...............   39
Accounts and Audits .................        ..     ....................    39
D.  Project Benefits and Risks .......              ............................    40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page
IV.  AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS ......................    42
ANNEXES
1.  Demand for Construction, 1981/82-1986/87
2. Building Materials Supply and Demand, 1981/82-1986/87
3.  DIB:  Income Statements, 1980-1983
4.  DIB:  Balance Sheets, 1980-1983
5.  DIB:  Projected Income Statements, 1984-1987
6.  DIB:  Projected Balance Sheets, 1984-1987
7.  BM:  Income Statements, 1980-1983
8.  BM:  Balance Sheets, 1980-1983
9.  BM:  Financial Projections, 1984-1988
10. Condensed Guidelines for Appraisal of Sub-Projects
11. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12.  Budget for the JCDCI Two-Year Work Program
13. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
This Staff Appraisal Report is based on two missions which visited Egypt in
November 1982 and May/June 1983. The first mission comprised Messrs. S.
Malik (Chief), A. Deshpande, G. Hadjicostas, H. Kaden, A.S. Kinawy, Ms. A.
MacNamara and Mr. A. Austen (Consultant). The second mission comprised
Messrs. S. Malik (Chief), J. Coudol, A. Deshpande, G. Hadjicostas, R.
Zaborski, A. Austen (Consultant) and M. Gates (Consultant).



-iii-
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt.
Beneficiaries:      Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and Bank Misr.
Amount:             US100 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Termns              Repayable in 20 vears, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   US$96.7 million and US$200,000 would be onlent to DIB and
Bank Misr, the participating banks (PBs), for the credit
component and technical assistance, respectively, at an
interest rate equal to the Bank rate plus 1.5 percentage
points. The PBs would onlend the credit component to
subborrowers at a minimum interest rate of 14%.
Amortization of the credit component would conform
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to specific investment projects
financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan. The
Government would retain US$2.8 million for the technical
assistance components for the Joint Committee for the
Development of the Construction Industry (JCDCI) and
management development program. The technical assistance
components would be repavable in 20 years, including 5
years of grace. The exchange risk between the Egyptian
pound and the US dollar would be borne by the subborrowers;
the exchange risk with other currencies would be borne bv
the Government.
Project             The project is designed to help initiate policy reforms
Description:        that can improve the performance of the construction
industry by the provision of financial and technical
assistance. Specifically, under the project JCDCI would
undertake an agreed two-year action program, which would
accord priority to strengthening contractual and bidding
practices in the sector. The project would provide a line
of credit to the PBs for onlending for construction
equipment and machinery for the manufacture of building
materials and small items of construction equipment; a
technical assistance program for management development of
contracting companies; a technical assistance program for
the JCDCI; and staff training and technical assistance for
the PBs to help them improve their capacity to evaluate and
supervise loans in the sector. The major risks associated
with the project are the present limited capability of the
PBs to evaluate subprojects in the sector and delays in



-iv-
project execution due to risks inherent in the
construction industry given strong fluctuations in
demand, current management deficiencies in contracting
companies and delays in payments from clients for
completed work. Strong, pent up demand in the sector
and the technical assistance components of the project
should minimize these risks.
Estimated Project Costs: 1/                         Foreign    Local    Total
--------US   Million------
Line of Credit                   96.7      30.0 2/ 126.7
Technical Assistance
Management Development            (2.0)    (1.2)    (3.2)
JCDCI                            (0.2)    (0.3)    (0.5)
PBs                              (0.2)    ( - )    (0.2)
Subtotal                       (2.4)    (1.5)    (3.9)
Contingencies                    (0.6)    (0.7)    (1.3)
Total Technical Assistance    3.0         2.2       5.2
Front-End Fee                     0.3        -        0.3
Total Financing Required    100.0        32.2    132.2
Financing Plan:                                     Foreign    Local    Total
--    US $ Million------
Bank                            100.0       -       100.0
Government                        -         2.2       2.2
Manufacturing Enterprises          -       30.0      30.0
Total                           100.0      32.2    132.2
Estimated           Bank Fiscal Year         85      86      87     88      89
Disbursements:                               ---------US $ Millions----------
Annual                    6     35      36      17      6
Cumulative                6     41      77      94    100
Economic Rate
of Return:          N.A.
1/ Net of taxes and duties.
2/ Representing the estimated local costs associated with the line of credit
for manufacturers of construction materials and equipment.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT *1
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project History
1.01     In 1979 the Bank, recognizing deficiencies and delays in the execu-
tion of its own projects in Egypt, agreed to finance a study of the construc-
tion/contracting industry (CCIS) from the proceeds of the Second Imports Loan
(1456-EGT) 1/. The study, undertaken by a team of Egyptian and foreign
consultants under the guidance and supervision of a Steering Committee of the
Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation (MDHLR), did a detailed
analysis of the sector and prepared comprehensive recommendations for improv-
ing the efficiency and for developing the capacity of the industry. The
study, completed in July 1981, provided an assessment of the essential
problems and constraints associated with the need for fostering growth and
efficiency.  The study's recommendations were discussed in a three-day
symposium in January-February 1982 in Cairo chaired by the Minister of
Development, Housing and Land Reclamation. A Bank mission visited Egypt in
June 1982 to discuss a program for implementation of the recommendations of
the study and the appropriate type and scope of Bank assistance.
B. Role of Construction in Development
1.02     Construction industries produce essential facilities for all other
sectors of the economy, and draw about one-half of their inputs from several
of those sectors. And yet, its special characteristics set it apart from
other industries; the construction activity shifts with the location of its
product ("job shop" nature against the "flow shop" of industrial manufacture);
it is performed by a wide variety of enterprises, organizations and indivi-
duals and faces a considerable array of special risks, particularly the
pronounced cyclical fluctuation of demand. The construction sector has
strong backward linkages with industries producing building materials, such
as cement, reinforcing iron, wood, glass, etc. The forward linkages appear
in the clear role of the sector in the capital formation process. Most forms
of fixed capital formation have an element of construction. As in other
advanced developing countries, construction in Egypt accounts for 45-50
percent of total annual gross fixed investment; it also consitutes about 5
percent of GDP.  In Egypt, the contracting part of the construction industry
employs about 700 thousand persons or about 4.5 percent of the national labor
force.
*/ Construction Industry is defined to embrace the whole of the construction
process including, construction contracting, construction materials and
other resources, and construction related services.
1/ Arab Republic of Egypt - Construction/Contracting Industry Study, Final
Report, July 1981.



1.03     Given its importance in the process of development, the construction
industry can also create a significant bottleneck when it cannot respond
quickly and efficiently to demands.  The Egyptian construction industry has
come under considerable strain since the opening up of the economy and
Government efforts to accelerate the rate of investment and economic growth
in the country.  The performance of the construction sector in the seventies
with an annual average growth rate in gross construction output of 2.9
percent has been disappointing and has considerably lagged behind the growth
in GDP (7.2 percent) . In contrast, during the 1960-70 period construction
output averaged an annual growth rate of 6.7 percent compared to a GDP growth
rate of 5.3 percent. Production of essential building materials like cement
and reinforcing bars also performed poorly during the seventies leading to
frequent shortages and necessitating higher imports.  Growing imbalance
between supply and demand for building materials resulted in significant
increases in the construction price index which averaged 23 percent per annum
during 1972-7 9. Large scale migration of construction workers to the Gulf
countries and the Government's excessive reliance on public sector
contractors all contributed to making the construction industry to be a major
bottleneck in the implementation of the Government's investment plans in the
seventies. The cost to the economy due to low quality of workmanship,
significant delays in completing work and excessively high prices has been
enormous.
1.04     The Government's new Five-Year Plan covering the period 1982/83 -
1986/87 foresees total investment expenditures of about LE 35 billion, out of
which construction accounts for over LE 16 billion or 47 percent (Annex 1).
The Plan targets represent a near doubling of the LE 8 billion in investment
in construction during the last Plan and pose a formidable challenge to the
industry.  The Plan also gives priority to increasing the production of
building materials, especially cement and reinforc ing bars, in order to
alleviate shortages encountered in the past (Annex 2).  The Government of
Egypt (GOE), based on the priorities established in the CCIS, has set in
motion the policies and reforms required to improve the capacity and
efficiency of the domestic construction industry in Egypt.  The proposed
project would assist GOE in these efforts.
C.  The Egyptian Construction Industry
1. Background
1.05     The structure of the construction/contracting industry in Egypt has
undergone a series of changes over the last three decades. At the time of
the 1952 Revolution, the contracting industry was entirely in the hands of
the private sector. After the Revolution the Government began investing in
heavy industry, but the economy continued to be based mainly on private enter-
prise. Between 1961 and 1964 contracting companies and companies mainly
producing essential building materials were first partly and later fully
converted into state owned enterprises. A limit of LE 30,000 (later
increased in stages to LE 50,000, LE 100,000, LE 500,000 and LE I million in
1974) was put on Government contracts let to private firms. The newly
nationalized firms were formed into 35, and later 41, companies. During



- 3 -
1964-67 the organization of public sector firms within the Government
structure was changed several times and the companies themselves regrouped.
Consumers were given immediate advantages from nationalization in the form of
significant price reductions on essential goods. Workers were given new
privileges and there was a massive employment drive with hundreds of
thousands of workers absorbed in the public sector, without much regard for
the implications in tenns of productivity or profitability. The old class of
managers and owners was invited to remain with the enterprise. During
1961-1973 the role of the private sector in construction diminished
considerably as its operations were limited by the contract ceiling. Its
primary activities were housing for the private sector and subcontracting to
the public sector.
1.06     After October 1973 there was a change in strategy, popularly known
as "Infitah" or the open door policy.  The foundation of the open door policy
is the Investment Law (Law 43 of 1974 as amended by Law 32 of 1977) which
encourages both foreign investment as well as indigenous private investment.
These laws, coupled with elimination of the contract ceiling stimulated
private sector contracting.  However, the controls on the economic system
instituted over two decades are still largely intact.
2. Structure and Organization
1.07     The primary and overriding characteristic of the construction
industry in Egypt is Government dominance as employer, its control of and its
participation at almost every level of execution.  Government is involved in
financing, organizing and managing construction enterprises as well as in
supplying human, material and financial resources.  It produces, allocates
and distributes key building materials; trains construction manpower; provides
equipment; determines the technology to be used; and finances most construc-
tion activity. Functional responsibilities for these various activities are
not generally separated. In some cases a single ministry serves as client,
contractor and material distributor. This leads to a blurring of functions
encouraging delayed payments by the client, inadequate project supervision,
and largely ignored contractual requirements on the part of the contractor.
The industry has suffered from a preoccupation by the Government with getting
work done by public sector contractors with very little control over costs.
Between 1962 and 1978, the public sector companies received almost all their
work by direct order, i.e. on a negotiated basis under which each company was
allocated work directly by a client ministry or public organization.
1.08     The Egyptian contracting industry consists of 5 separate production
units: public sector companies, private sector companies, cooperatives,
companies under Law 43, and the informal sector.  There are 47 contracting
companies in the public sector of which 29 are under the MDHLR and the
remaining under the Ministries of Electricity and Power, Industry, Irrigation
and Transport. There is a paucity of reliable data on the construction
sector in Egypt. It is therefore difficult to provide accurate estimates of
the respective shares of the various contracting units or to provide data on
the type of work performed.  The relative importance of the public sector
companies can, however, be gauged from the value of main contracts for new
construction awarded during 1981/82.  The public sector companies, operating



- 4 -
under direct ministerial control, accounted for 72 percent (Ministry of
Housing 52 percent) of the LE 2,160 million in new contracts awarded in
1981/82.  There are between 20 and 25 thousand operating units in private
sector contracting, including about 75 contracting companies set up under Law
43.  Some of the companies under Law 43 are joint ventures with foreign
firms, while the other companies are solely Egyptian 1/. The main contracts
received by private sector companies amount to less than 30 percent of the
total but about half the actual amount of the work due to sub-contracts.  In
addition, the informal sector -- construction for own use and construction
not conforning to all laws and regulations -- mostly involved in the field of
housing is substantial and growing. The CCIS has estimated that the informal
sector produces something of the order of 75 thousand urban units per annum
-- three times as many as the formal sector. Cooperatives of small private
contractors are set up in Governorates with strong local support.
Breakdown of Construction Output, 1980
Percent Share in Activity       Percent Share of Activity in Total
Activity        Public   Private   Total             Public    Private    Total
Land           83.1      16.9      100.0            11.4        9.0       10.9
Industry       82.7      17.3      100.0            14.8       12.0       14.2
Transport      95.2       4.8      100.0            27.5        5.3       22.9
Utilities      99.6       0.4      100.0            23.4        0.3       18.7
Housing        31.4      68.6      100.0             8.6       72.7       21.7
Building       98.8       1.2      100.0            14.3        0.7       11.5
79.5     20.5       100.0          100.0      100.0      100.0
Source: Ministry of Planning
1/ All enterprises formed under Law 43 are legally private sector enter-
prises and are exempt from guidelines applicable to public sector
enterprises.  In particular, such enterprises have managerial authority
identical to wholly owned private companies in all the critical areas of
profit retention, investment decisions, hiring, termination and
remuneration of staff and incentive policies.



- 5-
1.09     Most of the public sector companies have an annual gross turnover
(before sub-contracts) of between LE 10 million and LE 40 million.  Some
public sector companies generate up to 10 percent of their turnover from
works abroad, especially in the Gulf countries.  The smallest public sector
company has an annual turnover of barely over LE 1 million, while the largest
has an annual turnover of over LE 550 million, equivalent to 26 percent of
the turnover of the entire formal sector. Housing and general building
constitutes about one-third of the total turnover, followed by
transportation, including Suez Canal (23 percent), public utilities (19
percent) , industrial construction (14 percent) and agriculture, including
irrigation, drainage and land reclamation (11 percent). Most of the large
private sector companies have been in operation only 4-5 years and only about
a dozen have an annual turnover of over LE 10 million. These companies are
mostly involved in housing and only now are gradually diversifying into other
areas of construction.
1.10     The organizations procuring or supervising construction work are
predominantly government agencies or under their control. These include: (1)
the Supreme Councils for the Building Materials Industry, for the Construc-
tion Industry, for Irrigation and Agriculture, and for Transport; (2) the
Training Organization of the Ministry of Housing (TOMOHAR); (3) the Chamber
for Building Materials and Contractors; (4) the General Organization of
Housing, Building and Planning Research (GOHBPR); and (5) the Ministry of
Housing and other ministries. Two professional non-governmental bodies - the
Society of Engineers and the Syndicate of Engineers - are also involved.
These bodies also include architects, surveyors and other professionals
directly related to construction.  Apart from maintaining registers of all
graduate engineers in Egypt, the Syndicate itself currently performs few
other functions. There is a comprehensive body of legislation dealing with
construction in Egypt covering the responsibility for all phases such as
design, execution, supervision, and the relationships between the parties
involved. There are also a variety of other controls affecting the
construction industry including Egyptian standards, codes of practice and
tendering procedures for Government works. The existing laws are
comprehensive but complicated; however, observance of laws and the machinery
for enforcing them is weak.  Current institutional arrangements do not
promote sufficient coordination among the large number of parties involved.
The contracting industry itself should play a more active role in preparing a
legislative framework in which it could operate more efficiently.
3.  Construction Resources
1.11     Management, personnel, equipment, building materials, technology and
financial resources are the main factors of production of the construction
industry. While all of them are in short supply, the lack of good management
is perhaps the most severe constraint to the development of the sector.
1.12     Management:  Management has little incentive to improve productivity
of men and machines or economy in the use of materials. Many managers are
well educated, but lack experience in, or exposure to, good management
related to executing construction work. Until recently, few chairmen of con-
tracting companies received the management training which they needed. Two



-6 -
decades of direct order work, cost plus contracts, non-competitive operations
with no predetermined total cost targets, and no real incentives for
improving performance have contributed to this situation in public sector
companies.  In addition, public sector contractors had limited authority in
the areas of manpower and finance.  Inadequate management training facilities
has also not helped improve the standards of management, with the exception
of some arrangements in a very few firms. However, special management
ability is required when very scarce resources are to be employed
economically, and the potential of the construction industry is to be fully
utilized and further developed.
1.13     Manpower:  The construction industry in Egypt is constrained by the
shortage of adequately trained and experienced technical personnel and
skilled labor.  According to the CCIS the value of output per worker has
about halved in real terms between early 1960s and late 1970s.  This decline
in productivity partly reflects the lowering of the level of skills due to
emigration and partly due to a decline in incentives which management is
permitted to provide. While lack of skills is a problem common to the whole
industry, the public sector enterprises face specific problems such as fixed
wage levels and inability to terminate workers not needed for planned
operations.  Consequently, the efficiency of public sector companies is much
lower. Training facilities are generally inadequate, and only the largest
public sector company has established its own independent training system.
The Training Organization of the Ministry of Housing (TOMOHAR), established
in 1976, did not adequately respond to the industry's needs as its program
for establishing training centers moved very slowly and it had considerable
difficulty in recruiting trained instructors.
1.14     Equipment:  Much of the construction equipment fleet in Egypt is
obsolete or in need of repair. The CCIS estimated that at least one-half of
the existing fleet needs to be replaced in the next few years in order to
maintain 1979 levels. The public sector companies own and operate about
three-fourth of the total equipment fleet.  Until the open door policy, the
contracting companies were denied access to modern construction machinery and
equipment due to the practice of bulk procurement by a central government
agency. Within the public sector, the companies specializing on works for
agriculture, such as land reclamation and irrigation are highly mechanized
and fairly well organized. Their utilization rates are relatively high, but
the majority of their equipment is old and in some cases long over due for
replacement. On the other hand, companies involved in building and other
civil works, which own and operate about one-half of the total equipment
fleet of the country, have a poor record of utilization of machinery.  This
can be attributed to the great variety and number of projects undertaken,
weaknesses in scheduling and planning, shortage of spares and improper equip-
ment mix. Equipment maintenance facilities are generally inadequate as are
training facilities for operators leading to less than satisfactory utiliza-
tion rates. There are no well established equipment leasing companies and
only the two largest public sector companies have very recently established
in-house leasing arrangements to improve capacity utilization.  The private
sector companies have achieved fairly high utilization rates due to commercial
pressures originating from competition.  They also have a lower ratio of
fixed assets to turnover, indicating their preference for housing and other
building work, which is less equipment intensive.



1.15     Construction Materials:  With the exception of timber which for
conventional construction is all imported, Egypt has extensive resources of
raw materials for construction (natural stone, aggregates, gypsum, glass
sands, iron and bauxite ores) in commercially exploitable quantities.  The
production of essential building materials either stagnated or increased very
slowly in the seventies necessitating large imports.  Import of cement
increased from 1 million tons in 1970 to 3.3 million tons in 1979 and
constituted over one-half of total consumption.  Similarly, import of
reinforcing bars increased from 75 thousand tons (26 percent of total
consumption) to 475 thousand tons (63 percent of total consumption) during
the same period. Tight Government control, through public sector companies
and organizations, over key construction materials (cement, steel, timber,
glass and certain pipes) extending from production and importation to
allocation, distribution and pricing have resulted in inefficiencies, much
waste and operation of a 'free' or 'black' market in controlled materials.
Controlled materials are allocated on the basis of building permits and in
most cases these are distributed directly to the contractor undertaking the
work. Advance payments, equivalent to 25 percent of the value of materials,
are required and frequent delays in delivery are experienced. The private
sector is also involved in material production (bricks, aggregates, sanitary
fittings, paints and various other components) although generally on a small
scale. The Government's open door policy encourages private investment in
construction material production; this policy also allows import of con-
trolled materials, provided the contractor has access to foreign exchange.
The Government's investment program for the 1982/83 - 1986/87 period in basic
materials like cement, steel, etc. if implemented as planned, would alleviate
to a large extent the scarcities experienced in the past. Private sector
participation in building materials is also likely to increase in the future.
1.16     Technology:  Nationalization of the manufacturing of key building
materials and the Government pricing, allocation and distribution of these
materials have led to the preference, particularly in large building
projects, for technologies which make use of the resources under Government
control, even though these may not necessarily be appropriate for use in
Egypt. Many of the technologies used in the construction industry are often
out of date, rely on equipment which is obsolete or in poor repair, use
improper materials, and/or produce unsatisfactory work.  While these
conditions are found in many activities, they are particularly serious
regarding concrete which is used in constructing virtually all buildings in
Egypt. While concrete batching plants and truck mixers are now used
extensively, the poor quality of construction workmanship and materials is
immediately evident. Aggregates are generally badly graded and prepared and
reinforcements for concrete work are poorly formed, positioned and tied.
Designers, recognizing the inadequacies of current practice, have a tendency
to overdesign structures to compensate for bad workmanship resulting in a
subsequent greater use of materials than necessary and added costs. Testing
of certain materials and construction techniques are required by Egyptian
standards, codes of practice and contract documents, but testing laboratories
are limited in number and enforcement is weak. The Government as the main
client has the power to influence the choice of technologies used in projects
and to ensure that quality control standards are maintained through design
and supervision of projects. Supervision procedures, if properly applied,



- 8 -
could dramatically improve the quality and safety of construction works in
Egypt. There is also a need for a national program of standardization and
dimensional coordination of which there are but very few examples today.
1.17     Finance:  Institutional finance for contracting enterprises in Egypt
is minimal, given the array of special risks in contracting.  There are no
banks specializing in construction industry financing, although in 1980 the
National Investment Bank was established to assist in the financing of public
sector projects included in the Five Year Plan. State-owned mortgage banks
provide long-term financing for housing. Private sector contractors regard
lack of institutional finance as a major constraint to efficiency and
expansion of capacity. They have difficulty in securing bank financing and
are required to make large deposits and provide guarantees requiring substan-
tial real assets as collateral. Sources of institutional finance for the
contracting industry are detailed in the chapter on the banking sector.
1.18     Although lack of institutional finance is a major problem, there are
other important constraints on the contractor's finance. The most signifi-
cant one relates to delays in contract payments by the Government. The CCIS
estimated that the Government owed public sector contractors under the MDHLR
an estimated LE 364 million as of December 31, 1978, equivalent to over
one-half of the total turnover of these companies. The Government
consistently failed to recognize its obligations and the contractors' needs
for timely payment of work performed. To ease their liquidity situations,
the public sector contractors utilize their completion certificates to borrow
from local commercial public sector banks at the prevailing interest rate.
Since the contractors earned no interest on accounts receivable but paid the
prevailing market interest rate on a large proportion of accounts payable,
the net result was a squeeze on their profitability. Furthermore, in the
computation of taxes on profits it is assumed that contractors have received
payments. Another constraint on the contractor relates to the amount of
funds locked up in advance payments for building materials. An additional
problem to contractors in maintaining adequate liquidity is caused by the
absence of cost escalation clauses in contracts. Another problem until
recently and which primarily affected public sector companies involved the
impact of substantial advance payments to contractors for public sector
projects which were repaid during the course of the work by deduction from
the payments on each certificate. Public sector contractors were inclined to
take on as many contracts as possible in order to bring in advance payments,
and had little incentive to progress in the work underway since to do so
could jeopardize a positive cash flow.  The net result was substantial delays
in project completion and thus increases in construction costs.
1.19     The preceding sections highlight the serious inadequacies of the
Egyptian construction industry and the major problems which must be resolved
if the industry is to play the critical role required of it in the
development of the country. The primary reason for the unsatisfactory
performance of the industry is the organization and administration of the
industry rather than the shortage of resources. While there are admitted
shortcomings in resources, they are largely the result of a weak organization
and administration. The structure is heavily Government dominated,
responsibilities are blurred, and coordination is seriously lacking. At



present the industry is poorly organized and lacks effective professional
institutions and active business associations. There is also a need to
strengthen institutions to unify and to make more effective the presently
fragmented responsibility and inadequate capability of the construction
sector.  There is a need for industry-wide agreement on tendering procedures,
strengthened prequalification requirements and contract documentation;
Government leadership in influencing the choice of technology through design
and specifications; effective use of building permit system; the development
and use of standards and cost norms; increasing the stock of trained
manpower; introduction of management courses as part of the obligatory
curriculum for professions likely to contribute managers for the construction
industry; revamping the system of financing construction activity; redefining
the relationship between the Government and the public sector companies;
improvements in Government's planning and supervision of construction work;
and, an updating of the body of legislation dealing with the industry and its
strict enforcement.
D. Government's Strategy for Development of the Sector
1.20     The GOE recognizes the serious inadequacies of the Egyptian
construction industry. The high priority accorded to the sector is reflected
in the new Five Year Plan. The Government, based on the priorities
established in the CCIS and in the context of discussions of the proposed
loan, has also set in motion the policy reforms required to improve the
capacity and efficiency of the industry.
1.21     In order to improve coordination and the environment and the
structure of the industry, the Government has established a Joint Committee
for Development of Construction Industry (JCDCI) under the MDHLR. The
Government is also in the process of giving final approval to the
establishment of an Egyptian Federation of Contractors (EFC). The creation
of the JCDCI is particularly necessary to improve the performance of the
construction sector since this sector includes not only work execution but
also planning, designing, supervision and maintenance, in short, all project
cycle activities.  The MDHLR plays a major role in the Egyptian construction
sector extending from manufacture of building materials, including cement, to
construction manpower training (TOMOHAR) and constructon research and
technology (GOHBPR). The 29 contracting companies under MDHLR account for
about three-fourths of the work executed by all public sector companies.  The
EFC will represent the contractors in dialogue with the GOE and will also be
represented on the JCDCI.
1.22     The JCDCI has been entrusted with the task of developing and
recommending adoption of policies and reforms for the further development of
the Egyptian construction industry. The JCDCI, with the first Under-
secretary, MDHLR, as its Chairman, represents a balanced cross section



- 10 -
of the industry.  It consists of representatives of six other ministries
(four representing Government contracting parties -- Electricity and Power,
Industry, Irrigation and Transport -- and Planning and Manpower and
Training), the three new sector holding companies (for building materials,
for civil engineering construction and for general building contractors),
other organizations and associations concerned with the industry (EFC,
GOHBPR, TOMOHAR, Society of Engineers, Syndicate of Engineers), a
representative of the State Council, and four qualified and experienced
construction experts. An executive subcommittee of the JCDCI (called the
Executive Bureau) consisting of seven sector experts will serve as the
Project Implementation Unit. The Executive Bureau (EB) will be supported by
a Technical and Financial Secretariat which will be empowered to co-opt
additional members and to hire consultants for specific tasks.  The EB will
be headed by a representative of the private sector who will also serve as
the Deputy Chairman of the JCDCI, while the Secretariat will be headed by the
Undersecretary for Construction in MDHLR.
1.23     The JCDCI will oversee the preparation of detailed action programs
based on the general recommendations of the GCIS. The Government and the
Bank have agreed on a two-year program for the JCDCI for the formulation of
detailed reforms in key areas.  The work program focussing on Government
policies and procedures for procuring public works is detailed in Section III
para 3.20. The EB will undertake, with the assistance of the Secretariat and
consultants, the necessary technical work and then submit its proposals to
the full JCDCI. The JCDCI will review the proposals and recommend their
adoption to various ministries concerned with construction.
1.24     The draft legislation for the establishment of an Egyptian
Federation of Contractors (EFC), a contractors association, is before the
People's Assembly for final approval. The Association's present program
consists of a survey of existing construction companies to register them
horizontally (i.e. by categories of work), vertically (i.e. by capacity
ranges) and geographically (i.e. by regions); the preparation of standard
general conditions of contract to improve the contractual relationship
between owner and contractor; and, the preparation of standard specification
meeting modern requirements suitable to local conditions.  The Federation
will also assist small contractors and participate in meeting the training
needs of the industry.
1.25     The process of tendering in Egypt is in a state of change.
Realizing that the direct order method is not conducive to developing an
efficient contracting sector and the lack of effectiveness of the system in
terms of cost savings, quality or completion time, the Government has ceased
this practice as a matter of normal routine. The Ministry of Finance has
recently updated the procurement law.  Competition has increased in recent
years through tenders for smaller works and a prequalification stage followed
by a tender for larger works. No new contract is now awarded without free
competitive bidding and Government commitment to continue with this practice
was secured during negotiations.  Private sector companies are now free to
bid and compete with public sector companies; for large contracts Egyptian
private sector companies normally bid in joint venture with foreign partners.



- 11 -
1.26     The transition from direct order to free competitive system has
already fostered some increases in efficiency and reductions in construction
costs.  It is also acting as an incentive for contractors to adopt more
efficient management practices.  Good procurement practice will be further
strengthened as the EFC completes the first phase of its operations and
required changes are made in the current system of tendering procedures and
contract documents.
1.27     Along with the ceasing of the direct order method for public works,
the Government has also begun to lessen the amount of control that it exer-
cises over public sector firms in order to afford them opportunities to
develop on their own. Parliament passed a law (Law 97 published August 4,
1983) reforming in certain ways the organization and management of public
sector companies. The major changes are: an attempt to introduce a greater
degree of decentralization by creating holding companies to oversee the
operations of public sector companies, and greater control over hiring by the
management of public sector companies. Until recently, engineering graduates
were allocated to public sector companies and Government departments to be
hired as permanent employees resulting in overstaffing. Strict guidelines
laid down by law regarding the wage rates in the public sector encouraged
persons of initiative and enterprise to leave the public sector for higher
paying jobs in the private sector or in other Arab countries. Consequently,
labor productivity within public sector companies had been declining. As a
result the Government decided to discontinue the practice of guaranteed
employment to engineering graduates. Similarly, incentive payments are no
longer limited to 100 percent of the wage rate and payments in excess of this
are allowed. Companies can also make payments by piece work, production or
commission without any restriction on the pay defined for the job. Some
companies have also introduced productivity bonuses.  The relaxation of these
controls provide public sector companies with a means to improve their
operations and efficiency.
1.28     Greater participation of the private sector is now encouraged and is
a stated national policy. The removal of restrictions on turnover of private
sector contractors, the encouragement given by Law 43 of 1974 and the ceasing
of direct order method have increased the activity of private sector
contractors.  A good example of this is the recent award of a new military
city contract (at LE 260 million the largest contract ever awarded) to a
private sector company. A consortium of public sector companies, headed by
the largest company in Egypt, finished a poor third behind another private
sector company. This trend is likely to continue in the future.
1.29     As a result of deficiencies in the quality and quantity of construc-
tion resources the industry suffers from serious problems in construction and
management. To overcome the insufficient stock of trained manpower, the
Government has instituted programs to train and upgrade the skills of
construction workers, although these programs need to be improved and
expanded. Similarly, a comprehensive program for management development
specifically geared to the construction industry must be established to
supplement the existing general management courses. Production and distri-
bution of building materials can be facilitated by implementing planned
investments on schedule, phasing out controlled prices and a gradual



- 12 -
dismantling of the Government allocation of materials.  Construction
equipment, both to replace obsolete mechanical equipment and to increase
capacity and the availability of spares, will need to be mostly imported,
given the low degree of development of the domestic capital goods industry.
Formation of equipment leasing companies should be encouraged to improve
capacity utilization and to facilitate the access of small contractors.  The
problems related to inadequate local currency finance could be partly
overcome by the liquidation of outstanding Government debts to contractors
and prompt payments in the future, and by reducing the requirement for
advance payments for materials.  The access of contractors to institutional
finance can be improved through development banks as well as commercial banks.
Bank Group Strategy
1.30     The various recommendations of the CCIS, which are not independent
of each other, fall into 5 groups:  institutional improvements; competitive
environment; increasing construction resources; encouraging growth of small
contractors; and, improving planning at national level. Given the host of
weaknesses, the strategy for the development of the industry has to be based
on a phased approach. The ultimate goal will be the establishment of a
business environment conducive to fair competition among reasonably efficient
enterprises which should be fully competent and should, in total, contribute
to the country's development. The first phase included in the proposed
project focusses on some of the essential elements which also constitute the
prerequisites for the subsequent phases.  In addition to priority
considerations, the proposed efforts are spread over various organizations
(e.g., ministries, parastatals, private companies and business associations)
and aimed at various kinds of improvements (e.g., modernization, coordination
and cost-effectiveness) in order not to exceed the absorptive capacity and
the likely responsiveness of the GOE and the construction industry.  The
proposed project, envisaged to be the first in a series that will
successively address the issues and constraints facing the construction
sector, would help:  (i) initiate the process of policy reforms by the
provision of technical assistance to the JCDCI to enable it to undertake a
two-year work program agreed during negotiations; (ii) upgrade the skill of
management, especially in public sector companies, by the provision of
technical assistance for a comprehensive management development program;
(iii) strengthen the capability of the financial intermediaries to evaluate
and supervise loans in the sector through the provision of technical
assistance and preparation of guidelines for appraising contracting
companies; (iv) improve the capacity of the construction sector by the
provision of finance for construction equipment with well defined priorities
and machinery for the production of building materials and small items of
construction equipment; and (v) encourage the private sector and foster its
competition with an invigorated public sector.
1.31     In addition to the proposed project the Bank Group is also assisting
the Egyptian construction industry through other operations. The Vocational
Training Project (EGT-2264) would support the Government's efforts to
increase the supply and upgrade the quality of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower in the construction sector by the establishment of 22 new vocational
training centers, by equipping a new production center for training



- 13 -
materials, and by providng technical assistance and training to improve
training curricula and materials, upgrade instructor's skills, and strengthen
the capabilities of TOMOHAR to plan, manage and evaluate vocational training
programs. Bank projects have also provided finance and technical assistance
for increasing the supply of building materials, for example, cement
(EGT-1085) and reinforcing bars (EGT-2280).



- 14 -
II. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Financial Institutions and Construction Industry Lending
(i) The Banking Sector
2.01     The structure oL the Egyptian banking system has changed signifi-
cantly since 1975. Before then there were four nationalized commercial banks
whose main function was to provide credit to the public economic sector with
each bank having responsibility for a specific subsector.  This system of
sectoral specialization was abolished in 1975 and the government-owned banks
were given greater scope to put their dealings with public sector entities on
a more commercial basis.  They have also greatly expanded the scope of their
activities with the private sector.
2.02     Since 1975, 50 new banks have been established under the Foreign
Investment Law of 1974. Not all of these banks are foreign owned as the Law
also applies to companies that are wholly or partly Egyptian owned. Indeed,
only banks with majority Egyptian ownership are permitted to operate in
Egyptian pounds.  Some of these banks are joint ventures formed by
nationalized banks with foreign banks and other partners. There are 10
joint-venture banks with majority foreign ownership and 21 branches of
foreign banks authorized to do business under the Foreign Investment Law.
These banks and branches, which are referred to as foreign currency banks,
may only operate in foreign currencies and one of the branches (set up in the
Port Said free zone) may only deal with nonresidents and free zone companies.
2.03     There are 4 specialized banks; the Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit which finances the subsidized credit programs of the
agricultural cooperatives and acts as their fiscal agent; the Development
Industrial Bank which extends loans in domestic and foreign currencies for up
to 15 years to finance the fixed and working capital requirements of
industrial enterprises in the public and private sectors.  The other 2 banks
are real estate banks which provide mortgage credit of up to 30 years for
housing and utilities, and also extend shorter-term financing during
construction.
2.04     With the mushrooming of banking institutions under Law 43, the
banking sector has expanded very rapidly. Total assets of the banking sector
increased from LE 7.5 billion to about LE 20 billion between 1978 and 1982.
During the same period, the deposit base of the banking sector increased from
LE 4 billion to over LE 14 billion. Successive increase in interest rates
paid on time and savings deposits, and the exemption of such revenues from
taxation have yielded sustained growth in time and savings deposits and their
share in total deposit base has increased from 31 percent in 1978 to 54
percent in 1982.  The private sector deposits with the banking sector



- 15 -
amounted to LE 9.5 billion as of end-1982, representing about two-thirds of
the total deposit base of the banking sector compared to 55 percent
in 1978.  Since 1976 the private sector has been permitted to hold foreign
currency deposits. Given the higher interest rates on foreign currency
deposits from the end of 1978 until the latter part of 1982 and the large
inflow from Egyptian expatriates working in the Gulf, the private sector
foreign currency holdings grew in importance from 33 percent of private
sector deposit base in 1978 to 48 percent in 1982.
2.05     The growth of bank credit since 1974 has been quite rapid at 32
percent per annum, reflecting the expansionary effect of Treasury borrowing
to finance the public sector budget deficits. The growth of bank credit to
the private sector was even faster at 41 percent per annum.  This growth was
from a fairly low base and the share of private sector in total domestic
credit increased from 18 percent in 1974 to 30 percent in 1980/81. Domestic
credit grew even more rapidly in 1981/82 necessitating the monetary authori-
ties to impose a number of credit control measures in November 1981 and a
more differentiated interest rate structure in July 1982. As a result there
was a slowdown in the rate of growth of domestic liquidity to an annual rate
of 36 percent in the first half of 1982/83, compared with 58 percent in the
first half of 1981/82.  The major burden of the credit ceilings was, however,
placed on the private sector, whose credit grew by only 15 percent compared
to 60 percent in the previous year.
2.06     Despite the success of government policy in mobilizing savings into
the banking sector, it has not had proportionate success in lengthening the
maturity of the deposit base (about 6 months for LE and 30 days with respect
to foreign currency). Consequently, business sector term lending (i.e. more
than one year maturity) reached only LE 835 million or 10.4 percent of total
business sector loans in 1981. Although total lending to the private busi-
ness sector increased substantially, the share of term lending in total
lending declined from 14 percent in 1978 to 13 percent in 1981.
(ii)  Financing of Construction Activity
2.07     Finance is required for fixed assets and working capital and is
derived from contractors' internal resources (paid-up capital and reserves),
advance payments from clients and bank loans. The main institutions catering
to the construction/contracting industry in Egypt are the Development
Industrial Bank (DIB), the National Investment Bank (NIB), established to
help finance public sector projects in the Five Year Plan, Housing
Development Bank (HDB), State-owned mortgage banks and commercial banks.
State-owned mortgage banks lend money to housing and other cooperatives for
non-luxury housing. The recently established HDB channels savings into
housing development; it also operates a mortgage system for financing housing
for limited income families. The Credit Foncier Egyptien also provides loans
for housing at market rates, compared to the highly subsidized loans of the
state-owned mortgage banks and the HDB.
2.08     The Banque du Caire is the largest commercial bank catering to the
public sector contractors, mostly for short-term working capital needs. The
Banque has very limited experience and staff in appraising contractors for



- 16 -
extending medium and longer term loans. Until the mid-seventies, when
functional specialization of the public sector banks was abolished, the
Banque du Caire specialized in the services sector.  Even today the Banque du
Caire serves as the principal bank of the public sector contracting companies
which borrow against completion certificates to meet their liquidity
requirements. The Banque du Caire requires a deposit of 20 percent to cover
the letters of guarantee for the down payments to public sector contractors.
For private sector contractors the Banque requires a deposit of up to 30
percent, in addition to other guarantees and collateral. New contractors are
practically excluded from the Banque's business as it requires guarantees and
experience.
2.09     Practically all construction equipment is imported in Egypt.  DIB is
virtually the only institution providing long-term foreign currency loans to
the contracting companies. During the period 1980-83 a total of 26 loans for
a total amount of $44.3 million were made by DIB to the construction sector.
Most of these loans were for manufacture of building materials, only eight
loans for a total of $9.0 million being for import of construction equipment
by public and private sector contractors. Private contractors also import
equipment by converting local currency to foreign currency in the "own
exchange"' market (para 2.13). Given the inherent risks in construction
activity and limited capability of financial institutions in appraising
potential borrowers, commercial as well as development banks have been
reluctant to increase their lending to contractors. The shortage of
institutional finance is one of the main reasons which account in large
measure for the low private sector participation in construction in areas
other than housing.
B. Interest Rates and Exchange Rates
2.10     The Central Bank of Egypt regulates interest rates on deposits and
loans in local currency for all financial institutions. Lending rates are
set in terms of the minimum and maximum rates banks may charge in order to
give these institutions some flexibility in discriminating for or against
various activities. Since 1975 there has been a substantial increase in the
interest rate structure for both deposits and loans, reflecting the need to
mobilize resources in the face of rising inflation. The maximum rates
obtainable on savings and time deposits have risen substantially during this
period: from 2.4 percent to 8.5 percent for savings deposits of 3 months;
from 3 percent to 11 percent for deposits of 12 months; and, 13 percent on
deposits of 5 years.  In addition, since 1977 interest earnings on bank
deposits are tax exempt. During this period the Central Bank discount rate
was adjusted seven times to reach 13 percent in 1982 as compared to 6 percent
in 1975.
2.11     Since 1975, lending rates have increased from 7-8 percent to a
maximum of 13 percent for industrial and agricultural credit and 13-15
percent for services, and a minimum of 16 percent for commercial credit.
Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt. The wholesale price index
shows increases of 14.8 percent in 1980/81, 8.2 percent in 1981/82 and 21.7
percent in 1982/83. However, the official index is strongly biased by
controlled prices for essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and



- 17 -
does not adequately reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where
price levels tend to be significantly higher.  The Bank's latest inflation
projection for Egypt is 14 percent in 1984, 13 percent in 1985 and 12 percent
in 1986. It would thus appear that current interest rates on local currency
loans would become marginally positive in real terms in the light of current
inflationary expectations.
2.12     Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by the
Central Bank and reflect the cost of these resources.  Foreign exchange loans
provided by financial institutions (mostly short term loans) generally carry
floating interest rates tied to the 6 month LIBOR plus a spread of about 2
percent. Commercial credits including export financing carry rates varying
from 9 percent to 10 percent per annum. The interest rate on DIB dollar
loans under the proposed loan would be 14 percent. The compensatory deposits
of around 20 percent of foreign currency loans required by DIB from its
borrowers increases the effective cost of these loans to about 16 percent.
2.13     There are currently three different foreign exchange pools in Egypt
-- the Central Bank pool, the commercial bank pool and the free market --
each with its own sources and uses of funds and with separate exchange
rates. All transactions in the Central Bank pool are at the official rate
which has been set at 70 piastres per dollar since 1979. This pool is
supplied by receipts from Suez Canal dues, petroleum and some agricultural
exports and funds are used primarily to service external government debt and
to finance imports of basic supply commodities.  The commercial bank pool is
supplied mainly by cash remittances from Egyptians working abroad, tourism
receipts and the remaining non-oil exports. All transactions in the
commercial bank pool are at the official commercial bank exchange rate, which
was introduced as a separate rate in August 1981 and has remained fixed at 84
piastres to the dollar. The "free" or own exchange market is supplied by
remittances from Egyptians working abroad, foreign investment within the Law
43 framework and some tourist receipts. Private individuals and companies
can buy foreign exchange at a freely floating rate in order to finance
imports or to invest in dollar-denominated assets. Over the past year, the
free market rate has fluctuated between 110 and 125 piastres to the dollar.
2.14     The Government has been, since the second half of 1982, engaged in a
dialogue on the exchange rate regime with the IMF.  In April 1983 the
Government introduced an important reform, allowing exporters to receive the
most favorable exchange rate, i.e. the free market rate. Although the
official commercial bank rate remains fixed, many other transactions
including remittance transfers and import payments now occur in practice at
rates that are intermediate between the official commercial bank rate and the
own-exchange rate.
C. Participating Banks
2.15     Two banks, Development Industrial Bank (DIB) and Bank Misr (BM),
have been selected to participate as financial intermediaries for the pro-
posed loan. The use of the two banks is designed to reach a large number of



- 18 
borrowers in the public and private sectors. Both banks have been recipients
of Bank loans in the past and are familiar with World Bank procedures for
subloan review and disbursement of funds.  The two banks have an acknow-
ledged project processing capability and have expressed an interest in
building up their construction industry development lending activities.
Development Industrial Bank (DIB) _/
Institutional Aspects
2.16     DIB was established in 1975, and its paid-in capital of LE 34
million (US$ 40 million equivalent) is held entirely by the Government. DIB
is subject to supervision by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). DIB operates
from its head office in Cairo and three branches, one each in Cairo,
Alexandria and Tanta.  Two more branches are planned to be opened during
1984, at Port Said and the city of 10th of Ramadan. All of DIB's foreign
currency term lending operations are conducted from its head office.  Loans
in local currency up to LE 200,000 for terms up to 5 years are approved in
the branches.
2.17     After a reorganization in mid-1983, DIB now has 17 departments at
the head office which report to 11 General Managers who are also members of a
management committee which meets every week under the chairmanship of the
Vice Chairnan to deal with all management issues involving more than one
department. The number of DIB directors is seven; it consists of the
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, three General Managers and two outside members.  DIB
also has an advisory committee to the Board consisting of five prominent
persons with wide experience in private industry and finance.  The Board
meets about once a month or more often as necessary to decide on loan
applications for amounts exceeding LE 500,000 or its equivalent in the case
of a foreign currency loan.  All cases submitted to the Board are screened by
a loan committee consisting of the Vice-Chairman and the three General
Managers.
2.18     As of December 31, 1983 DIB had a total of 484 employees including
262 professional staff. DIB is governed by public sector salary scales which
makes it difficult to recruit top quality experienced staff. However, DIB
has brought about improvement in staff quality by continuous training of
staff with the help of advisors and consultants, and by sending its appraisal
officers to training courses abroad. More recently, DIB has doubled the
annual bonuses in order to reduce staff turnover.
2.19     DIB has a comprehensive policy statement which is acceptable to the
Bank and covers usual areas like maximum exposure limits to a single
borrower, limits on maximum equity holdings, collateral policies and
subsectoral policies.  There have been considerable improvements in DIB's
project appraisal work as a result of internal training courses conducted
1/ A more detailed analysis of DIB is available in Project File.



- 19 -
by advisors and attendance at courses conducted by various institutions,
including EDI.  Continuous input has also been provided by Bank staff during
supervision missions and during review of subloans submitted by DIB. DIB's
project supervision is essentially focussed on the financial aspects as the
large number of loans in DIB's portfolio (about 5,000 at the end of 1983)
makes periodic contact with all borrowers very difficult.
Bank-Financed Operations
2.20     DIB has so far received two IDA credits (Credit No. 412 - $15
million and Credit No. 576 - $25 million) and three loans (Loan No. 1533 -
$40 million, Loan No. 1804 - $50 million and Loan No. 2074 - $120 million).
DIB is also one of the banks in Egypt responsible for channelling loans to
Agro-industrial projects (Credit No. 988 and Loan No. 2243). DIB also has
access to almost all official fund sources including USAID, KFW, AfDB, EIB
and OPEC Special Funds. Overall, after initial difficulties, DIB has used
Bank funds effectively, and the objectives of the projects have been met to a
substantial extent. The OED of the Bank prepared a report on DIB's
performance under the first two industrial credits. The report while
recognizing the significant contribution made by DIB to the promotion of
private sector noted institutional weaknesses in several areas: project
appraisal and supervision; budgeting, accounting, financial control and
management information systems; and resource mobilization. To help DIB
formulate an adequate supervisory mechanism, a management consultant funded
by EEC will prepare a system of supervision appropriate to DIB's loan
portfolio.
Financial and Operational Performance
2.21     DIB has consistently performed well as a financial institution and
has maintained a sound financial structure despite a very high rate of growth
of operations (Annexes 3 and 4). DIB's total assets have grown at an average
annual rate of about 40 percent during 1979-1983 period. As of the end of
fiscal year 1983, DIB's loan portfolio amounted to LE 316 million having more
than doubled in two years. The portfolio is well diversified among indus-
trial subsectors and has now matured, nearly 70 percent being in repayment
stage. Total arrears of principal amounted to LE 8.0 million or 2.5 percent
of loan portfolio, which is acceptable. Potential defaults are well covered
by provisions for doubtful loans and reserves which totalled LE 25.5
million. DIB has made adequate profits, before-tax return on average equity
ranging between 14 percent and 30 percent per annum during 1979-1983. Return
on total assets has been adequate at between 2.6 percent and 3.2 percent.
Projected Operations and Resource Requirements
2.22     DIB's operational projections for 1983/84-1986/87 assume an annual
average increase of 10 percent per annum in nominal terms in both foreign and
local currency loan approvals (Annexes 5 and 6). The rate of increase
assumed, which is lower than the historical rate, is considered appropriate
in view of the need to consolidate operations, to train staff and to maintain
the quality of the portfolio. Local currency loan approvals are expected to



- 20 -
rise from LE 55.5 million in 1983/84 to LE 76.8 million in 1986/87. Foreign
currency loan approvals are projected to increase from LE 78 million ($91
million) to LE 104 million ($124 million). DIB's major source of local
currency resources is a loan discounting facility provided by CBE. DIB has
also begun to increase borrowing from other commercial banks as inter-bank
deposit rates are lower than the CBE rate.
2.23     Foreign currency resources made available to DIB totalled LE 313
million ($371 million) by June 1983, of which $267 million has been provided
by Bank/IDA. During 1984/85-1986/87 DIB expects to commit foreign currency
loans totalling LE 276 million ($329 million). It expects to meet these
resource needs by borrowings mainly from the Bank, KFW, EIB and AfDB. Bank
funds likely to become available to DIB over the period total about $248
million under the proposed loans ($168 million under SMI-II, $50 million
under the Construction Industry Project and about $30 million under the
Export Development Project).
Projected Profitability and Financial Position
2.24     DIB is expected to maintain adequate profitability with net profit
rising from LE 12.7 million in 1982/83 to LE 22 million in 1986/87, and
return on equity ranging between 26 percent and 31 percent. Appropriations
to reserves will be made equal to 25 percent of profits, and 75 percent of
remaining will be paid to CBE as dividends.  Provisions for doubtful debts
and reserves will be maintained at 6 percent of outstanding portfolio. DIB's
financial structure will continue to be sound with the debt/equity ratio
being below the 8:1 limit at least until end of 1983/84. At that stage a
further increase in equity would be required and has been planned for. Given
the record of strong Government support for DIB in the past, it is reasonable
to assume that further equity contributions will be available at the
appropriate stage.
Technical Assistance
2.25     DIB is expected to receive about 20-25 subloan applications under
the proposed credit, totalling about $45-55 million in the 2 1/2 year
commitment period of the loan. It will require technical assistance in the
specific area of construction contractors as well as for staff training for
project appraisal. It is therefore proposed that, (i) technical assistance
should be provided by arranging for visits of a consultant for about two
weeks each for four times during the first year of project implementation and
at longer intervals thereafter. The consultant would help DIB staff to
carryout subproject appraisals and conduct short training sessions, and (ii)
funds should be provided for training of DIB staff abroad and/or in Egypt.
An allocation of $100,000 would be sufficient to cover the above needs (see
para 3.33).



- 21 -
Bank Misr (BM) l/
Institutional Aspects
2.26     Bank Misr was established in 1920 as a private commercial bank and
it has developed over time into the second largest commercial bank in Egypt.
In spite of nationalization it has essentially retained its commercial
character and its relative role in the banking sector. Long term Lending in
the field of development finance was started only after the establishment in
1976 of a separate "Investment Center" through which all activities relating
to BM's subsidiary companies and joint ventures are conducted. The center is
also responsible for the three Bank Group projects (Fruit and Vegetable
Development Project and First and Second Agro-industries Projects) and is
also expected to participate in the new Export Industries Project.
2.27     Bank Misr is a joint stock bank, and its entire LE 20 million share
capital is paid-in and held by the CBE.  The CBE's Board of Directors forms
the General Assembly of Bank Misr. Bank Misr's Board of Directors consists
of the Chairman, a Deputy Chairman, three General Managers and two outside
banking specialists. Bank Misr is efficiently organized with regard to its
commercial banking operations, in which it has a long tradition. Its
portfolio contains predominantly short-term loans for commercial and trading
activities. A significant part of its organizational set-up, including 300
branch offices, is directed to generating a sufficient flow of domestic funds
from deposit makers. It has been markedly successful in attracting deposits
from the private sector (LE 3,140 million as of June 30, 1983).
2.28     All development activities including medium- and long-term lending
and equity participation are channelled through the "Investment Center".  It
is headed by a General Manager who reports directly to the Deputy Chairman
and Managing Director. The center consists of three departments, employing a
total staff of 70 of which 52 are professionals. It has embarked on
agricultural and agroindustrial projects as well as a great variety of equity
investments like financial and banking projects, housing and reconstruction
projects, hotels, tourism projects, transportation and service projects.
Appraisal Prodecures
2.29     Many of Bank Misr's customers are large enterprises which hire
consultants to make the preparation report. If the customers are not able to
prepare the basic study, the staff of the Investment Center will assist
them. Nearly all project work is centralized in the Head Office; only the
small "food security loans" are prepared and appraised in branches.  This has
been necessary to ensure quality control, as only head office personnel have
the necessary training and expertise to appraise investment loans in agro-
and other industries.  Investment Center staff prepares an appraisal report
on each project not appraised at the branch level.  It takes the form of a
feasibility study which, together with a summary, is presented to the
management for decision-making. The feasibility study includes an evaluation
of the management, financial, marketing and technical aspect of each project.
1/ A more detailed analysis of BM is available on Project File.



- 22 -
2.30     The primary responsibility for processing the subloans under the
proposed project will be assigned to the Department for Housing and Service
Companies.  This department is at present responsible for a total of nine
companies in the contracting, housing and tourism sectors.  The depart-
ment has three staff members, all professional. BM proposes to rely also on
the staff of the Agricultural Development and Lending Department which has
much greater familiarity with Bank procedures, having handled the earlier
agro-industries loans.  The staff available can form one viable appraisal
team with the addition of one experienced civil engineer whom BM has agreed
to recruit on contract basis.  In addition BM will engage a consultant well
experienced in construction contracting industry to help its own staff.
Considering that a relatively small number of subloans is likely to be
received and processed by BM, the arrangements are adequate for the purposes
of this loan.  However, since the amount of Bank related work is increasing,
the Investment Center is planning to set up a small unit for coordination of
relationships with the Bank.
Project Supervision
2.31     Bank Misr's supervision needs have been limited because of the small
number of projects and the centralization of appraisal and decision making
functions. Main lending and disbursement data are maintained separately on
each project and summarized in the form of a large chart. Each month the
staff prepares a report to management on implementation status, guarantees and
recommendations for action on each large project. Although the report format
is standardized and provides basic lending data for management information,
the main focus of the supervision work is only on cost overruns and loan
repayments. Under the Second Agro-industries Project a consultant is being
financed for working on the design and implementation of a system for
monitoring and evaluation of projects.
Financial Performance
2.32     BM's financial statements (Annexes 7 and 8) show that its total
assets increased from LE 2.1 billion as of June 30, 1980, to LE 4.1 billion
as of June 30, 1983.  Deposits have grown in a commensurate manner.  The
loans to deposits ratio has evolved from 70 percent in 1980 up to 92 percent
in 1981, and down to 84 percent in 1983.  BM produced a profit of LE 51.2
million after taxes and provisions for the year ended June 30, 1983, a return
of 90 percent on its equity. BM's equity, composed of LE 20.0 million in
paid-in capital and LE 74.1 million in reserves, has steadily increased due
to prudent appropriation of profit, and its total deposits/equity ratio was
33.4 times, which is acceptable for a commercial bank.  Compared to the
volume of lending, the operational expenses (staff, equipment and services)
were moderate at LE 55 million.  This was 2.1 percent of total lending and
1.3 percent of total assets.
Technical Assistance
2.33     BM will require technical assistance in the specific area of
appraisal of construction contractors as well as for staff training for



- 23 -
project appraisal.  It is therefore proposed that, (i) technical assistance
should be provided by arranging for visits of a consultant for about two
weeks each for four times during the first year of project implementation and
at longer intervals thereafter.  The consultant would help BM staff to carry
out subproject appraisals and conduct short training sessions, and (ii) funds
should be provided for training of BM staff abroad and/or in Egypt. An
allocation of $100,000 would be sufficient to cover the above needs (see
para. 3.33).
Financial and Operational Projections
2.34     BM has made very conservative projections for the next five years
and expects a slower rate of growth than in the past (Annex 9). Loans are
projected to increase at an average rate of 16 percent per year, deposits at
14 percent and investments at 10 percent. Total assets growth will be 13.7
percent per year.  In the near future, the Investment Center is expected to
continue its process of consolidation and to follow a more selective approach
to equity investments according to the Government's policies and priorities
as specified in the Five Year Plan.  Its long-term loan approvals will
increase from LE 115 million in 1983 to LE 240 million in 1988, including
about $70 million equivalent in foreign currency. The liquidity of BM will
remain high and the liabilities to equity ratio will improve slightly to
38.6.  Profits before taxes will grow steadily from LE 79.7 million in 1983
to LE 146 million in 1988, and will remain at about 2 percent of average
total assets.
2.35     BM is expected to receive about 15 - 20 subloan applications under
the proposed credit, totalling about $45 - 50 million in the 2 1/2 year
commitment period of the loan.  The loan will therefore not make a very
substantial impact on BM's financial structure, debt structure, or on its
overall character as a major commercial bank.  BM would, however, be a
financially sound intermediary for the proposed loan and is capable of being
built up further as a channel for future Bank assistance to the construction
contracting sector.



- 24 -
III. THE PROJECT
3.01     Bank strategy in the sector is to assist the GOE in fostering an
efficient domestic construction industry in Egypt. To deal with the host of
weaknesses in the construction industry, the CCIS has proposed a series of
measures ranging from matters of a highly technical nature to issues that
concern the overall management of the industry and the environment under which
the industry has to operate. Some of the proposed improvements call for
changes in practices or procedures, involving some changes in Government
policies.
A. Objectives and Scope
3.02     The proposed project, is envisaged to be the first in a series that
will successively address the various issues and constraints. It focuses on
some of the essential policy reforms which constitute the prerequisites for
the subsequent phases. It also provides for crucial financial and technical
assistance which should improve the performance of the sector in the short
term.  The proposed project of $100 million, including capitalized front end
fee, consists of the following components, which are described in detail in
the following paragraphs:
(I' Financial assistance, in the form of a DFC line of credit for
an amount of $96.7 million to be made available to DIB and BM
for onlending for construction equipment and machinery for the
manufacture of building materials and small items of
construction equipment;
(2) A technical assistance program for management development of
the contracting companies at a foreign exchange cost of $2.5
million, to commence from October 1, 1984 and to extend up to
March 31, 1987;
(3) A technical assistance program for the JCDCI to enable it to
undertake a two-year work program at a foreign exchange cost
of $0.3 million; and
(4) A staff training and technical assistance program to DIB and
BM, at a foreign exchange cost of $0.2 million.
B. Project Description
(1) Financial Assistance
3.03     The credit line will be utilized by DIB and BM to finance the
foreign exchange needs of the eligible enterprises in both the public and
the private sectors for the acquisition of fixed assets and associated per-
manent working capital. Eligible enterprises are defined to include (i)
contracting companies in the public sector, the private sector and those
formed under Law 43; (ii) manufacturing enterprises involved in the produc-
tion of building materials such as cement bricks, window frames, tiles,



- 25 -
etc., but excluding cement and steel, and small items of construction
equipment such as scaffolding, hand tools, etc.; and (iii) equipment leasing
companies.  There are at present no well established equipment leasing
companies in Egypt, although a number of proposals are under study. Given
the important role equipment leasing companies can play, especially
vis-a-vis small contractors and speciality equipment, this component has
been included under the project to allow financing of such companies if
formed. The credit line will not be preallocated between the above three
components.
3.04     The use of subloans for construction equipment in order of priority
is as follows:
(i)    purchase of tools and machines used to maintain, repair, and
overhaul presently owned construction equipment, associated
facilities and related plant, including spare parts;
(ii)    purchase of small tools and equipment to increase the productivity
of existing labor intensive operations as well as the quality of
work;
(iii)    purchase of new construction equipment and related spare parts
necessary to improve the efficiency of the fleet of existing
equipment by replacing existing older, worn out equipment that
cannot be economically rehabilitated;
(iv)    purchase of small tools and equipment to increase the capability of
the contractor to do a large portion of the total project with his
own forces rather than to subcontract such work when this gives the
contractor better control of the work and results in greater
efficiency;
(v)    purchase of new construction equipment and related spare parts
desirable to improve the efficiency of the fleet of existing
equipment by augmenting it so as to create a more economical
balance;
(vi)    purchase of new construction equipment and related spare parts for
use as (v) above and to expand existing capability or for potential
use to gain entry into other areas of construction contracting; and
(vii)    purchase of new construction equipment and related spare parts
having little relationship to past or current needs of the company
(based on projects completed and currently under construction) but
in anticipation of gaining entry into other new areas of
construction contracting.
3.05     In order to reach a large number of borrowers in the public and the
private sectors, the maximum amount an eligible enterprise can borrow under
the line of credit has been set at $5 million. During negotiations
agreement was reached with the participating banks to observe this limit.



- 26 -
(2) Technical Assistance for Management Development Program
3.06     A comprehensive program for upgrading the skills of the senior
staff in most public sector contracting companies in Egypt is required to
strengthen management ability to organize and deploy resources in a more
efficient manner. Since many of the problems affecting public sector
construction enterprises in Egypt are only symptoms of the underlying
problem of weak enterprise management, the key to the problem of the
contracting industry lies in improving management. Technical assistance for
management development will be compulsory for those public sector companies
which avail of the credit component for the purchase of construction equip-
ment. The only exceptions will be those few companies which are already
receiving similar technical assistance under bilateral or other aid
programs. An agreement to this effect was reached with the participating
banks during negotiations.  With the ceasing of the direct order method and
growing competition, an awareness has grown that technical skills are not by
themselves sufficient if scarce resources are to be employed economically
and the potential of the construction industry is to be fully utilized and
further developed. As a long-term measure, Egypt will have to concern
itself with the introduction of management courses as part of the obligatory
curriculum for professions likely to contribute managers for the construc-
tion industry. In the meanwhile, the technical assistance program for
management development under the project is based on the assumptions that
(i) the preferred course to improve management skills is the training of
construction industry managers in peer groups on the basis of practical
cases drawn from their own industry and environment; (ii) training is best
carried out as a combination of academic inputs and practical on-the-job
coaching, with accent on the latter; and (iii) the training program should
use a combination of local and foreign trainers.
3.07     The long term objective is to improve the performance of Egyptian
construction companies, especially those in the public sector. The short
term objective is to focus on upgrading the senior management of those
companies which take loans under the proposed project and hence, to create
an operating environment conducive to the achievement of the long term
objective.
3.08     Improvement of overall company performance demands a commitment on
the part of senior management to the creation of a suitable operating
environment within the company. Only when this exists can productivity
improvements be made at the site level.  This is the rationale for
concentrating the technical assistance on the senior management of the
participating companies.  Under the project, technical assistance in the
form of a team of advisors will be made available to chairmen, board members
and other senior managers to work with them for certain limited periods to
help them analyze and solve company problems. While doing this, the
advisors will identify both management training needs and the scope for
improvement in management information and operating systems, such as cost



- 27 -
systems, plant management systems, and estimating systems.  The advisors
will then work with training and systems analysis experts who are also on
the technical assistance team to meet the identified needs. This will
ensure that both training and company systems are directly responsive to
company requirements. In practice, there is likely to be a great deal of
similarity in the problems encountered by the advisors; this will enable the
design of common training programs and similar operating systems.
3.09    'While the specifications for training programs and management
information and operating systems will be prepared by the members of the
technical assistance team, the detailed work will be subcontracted to an
Egyptian institution (para 3.13). This will have the immediate benefit of
tapping local expertise, helping to overcome language barriers, and ensuring
congruence with local conditions. In the long term, this will provide an
institutional base for continued training and advisory services when
technical assistance has been phased out.
Operation and Organization
3.10     The technical assistance team will comprise three senior advisors
and about five main advisors/experts in specialized fields:
Senior Advisor in Construction Management (Team Leader), who will
be a professionally qualified engineer with a minimum of 10 years
experience in a senior management position in an international
construction company. Experience in developing countries,
preferably including the Middle East, will be essential. The team
leader must possess the ability to achieve results through
persuasion rather than authority;
Senior Advisor in Financial Management, who will be a
professionally qualified accountant/financial analyst with a
minimum of 10 years experience in senior management position in a
large construction company. Experience in developing countries,
preferably including the Middle East, will be essential;
Senior Training Advisor, who will be a professional trainer with a
qualification in civil engineering, building or architecture, and a
minimum of 10 years experience in management training in the
construction sector. Developing country experience will be
preferable;
Construction Project Management Advisor(s), who will be a qualified
civil engineer with a minimum of 10 years experience in the
management of large construction projects. This period should
include at least five years developing country experience,
preferably including the Middle East;
Construction Estimating and Costing Advisor(s), who will be an
experienced estimating/costing engineer/quantity surveyor with a
minimum of 10 years experience in a senior position in a large
construction company. This period should include experience of



- 28 -
estimating/costing for developing country projects, preferably
including the Middle East;
Construction Plant Management Advisor(s), who will be a qualified
mechanical engineer with a minimum of 10 years experience in a
senior management position in a plant hire company or the plant
department of a large construction company. Knowledge of plant
hire and costing systems will be essential. Developing country
experience will be preferable;
Systems Analyst(s), who will have experience of the design and
operation of management control systems for the construction
industry, especially in the field of site costing, project
management, and plant hire and costing;
Training Advisor(s), who will be a qualified trainer with
experience of developing and applying management training methods
and materials. Knowledge of the construction industry and
developing country experience will be an advantage.
3.11     The services of the three senior advisors will be needed for a
duration of 30 man months each from October 1, 1984 to March 31, 1987. The
number of advisors/experts in the specialist fields of project management,
estimating and costing, etc. have not been specified, since the demand will
not be known until the project starts. However, a minimum of one
advisor/expert from each category will be provided over the 27 month period
from January 1, 1985 through March 31, 1987.  This represents 135 man
months. An additional 15 man months will be regarded as a "pool", the
members of which will be recruited when the exact requirements have been
identified. This will give the team leader flexibility to make a good fit
between the demand and supply of team services. The cost of the management
development program is estimated at $4.2 million, including about $1.7
million in local currency. This would cover 240 staff months of
consultants.  The technical assistance budget for this program is detailed
in the table below.



- 29 -
EGYPT
ODNSIRWTIDN INDUSTRY FROJECT
Budget for Managewent Development Program
('000)
1984             1985             1986             1987             Total
us$     LE       us$     LE       us$    LE                         US$      LE
Advisors                  108    -         832     190      852      190      218      55   2,010       435
Subcontracting             -      -         -      100       -      150       -       50       _       300
Other
Office Equip., Rental
ard Maintenance           -     43         -      59        -      39        -       14       -       155
Adm. Support                -      2         -      19        _       19       -       4         -       44
Other                       3     13         6      27        6       4        3        -       18       44
Sib-total              3    58          6     105        6      62        3      18       18      243
TCOrAL           111     58       838     395      858    402       221      123   2,028       978
CbntirgerKcies 1/          10    12        146     140      239    206        87      80      482      437
1UTAL            121     70       984     535    1,097     608      308    203   2,510    1,415
V Assunirg physical contirgemy equivalent to 5 percent of base costs, international inflation of 3.5
percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985 and 9 percent in 1966 and in 1987 and dcmestic inflation of 14
percent in 1985, 12 percent in 1986 and 10 percent in 1987.



- 30 -
3.12     As stated in para 3.06 most of the public sector companies under
the loan will require technical assistance to strengthen management ability
to deploy resources in a more efficient manner.  For a typical company the
following sequence is foreseen:
(a) The team leader is notified by the lending bank that Company A
has applied for a loan.
(b) The team leader holds preliminary discussions with the Chairman
of Company A. A provisional program is agreed on for advisory
services.
(c) On notification from the bank that the loan has been approved,
the advisory services program is firmed up and agreed on.
(d) Advisory services are provided. These will identify what
further help Company A needs in respect of system development
and/or training. Advisors and their counterparts should
specify the help needed in terms of a project(s) to be agreed
on by director(s) and the chairman.  The project(s) should
include a budget, timetable and evaluation system.
(e) With the help of the training advisor, a suitable training
program will be drawn up. The training advisor will be
responsible for defining the requirements, drawing up terms of
reference, defining delivery schedules, and monitoring delivery
of those portions of the training programs assigned to the
subcontractors.
(f) If systems development is needed, one of the senior advisors
will work with the appropriate technical advisor to prepare a
work program. Subcontractors may be used to provide analytical
expertise for systems design. Where necessary, the technical
advisor will define the requirements, draw up terms of
reference, and monitor the delivery of those portions of the
systems design assigned to the subcontractors.
The Institutional Base for Training
3.13     With the exception of some 'in-house' training provided for its own
staff by the largest public sector company, there are at present no regular
construction management training programs available in Egypt. There is
therefore no ready-made institutional base for management training programs
aimed at construction companies.  Such a base is necesssry if the project is
to contribute to longer term development beyond its own immediate life.
Fortunately, one institute -- the Sadat Academy of Management (formerly the
Institute for Public Administration, then the National Institute of
Management Development) -- has the potential to support longer term
training. The Academy, a public institute supervised by the Ministry of
Management, has long been known for its management training of top manage-
ment in the public sector. It has a highly qualified staff in fields



- 31 -
including finance, accounts, public administration, administrative policies,
engineering and production, behavioral science and statistics.  It also
possesses good premises. In addition to full time courses leading to an
academic qualification, it runs problem oriented, short training courses for
industry although these do not at present include the construction sector.
The project will use Sadat Academy on a subcontract basis so that it may
gain experience in the field of construction management, while at the same
time contributing its knowledge of local conditions as well as pedagogical
expertise. It may also provide consultants for analytical expertise for
systems design.
Courses/Seminars
3.14     After an assessment of company problems and needs has been made, a
suitable training program will be drawn up with the help of the training
advisor. The training advisor will be responsible for defining the
requirements, drawing up terms of reference, defining delivery schedules,
and monitoring delivery of those portions of the training program assigned
to the subcontractor. The training program will be designed to meet the
needs as identified by the senior advisors. It is therefore not possible at
this stage to specify precisely the nature and content of the program.
However, it is probable that for the various management levels, the program
will need to include the subjects indicated below.



- 32 -
Manrgewent Development Program - Training Program
Duration
Each
Audierme                Objectives                  Oxwse (bntent                (burse/Session
Conipany Chairnan     To create an awareness     Corporate Plamirg                  2 days
and Vice-hairmn    of the tools available       Finarre Cbntrol
for effective management    Fysical & Human Resources
Improving Business Perfoncarce
Board Mmiters and     To provide (i) an overall  Colporate Planning                 5 days
Senior Executives    understandirg of how a     Products and Markets
construction canpany       Financial Structure & Perfomare
operates in a coueraiial   Developient of Management Skills
context, (ii) an insight   Operations Mnagement
into n-2dern management
techniques and their
application in construc-
tion (iii) to encourage
team working
Finarn ial Directors   To develop an understandirg Money Management                 5 days
and Chief Account-   of mndern finartial        Pricirg Pblicies
ants, Technical      management                 Liquidity and Cash Flow
Directors and Chief                             Cbntract & Departnental Budgets
Estimators                                      Project Cost Control
Investment Appraisal
Technical Directors,  To develop sound marketing Tendering Pblicies                 5 days
Chief Estimators,    and tendering policies,    Assessment of Market Trends
Executive Directors  and to create awareness    Forecasting & Budgetary (bntml
& General Managers   of the links between       Pre-tender Planning
estimating, planning and   Cbst Feed-back
execution                  Tender Analysis
Project Directors     To demonstrate how better  Managerent Reports and (bntrol     5 days
& General Managers   project managenent can      Infornation
improve site productivity   O=pany Finanme & Management
Accounting
Production & Cbst (bntrol Tech-
niques
Qomunication
Industrial Relations
lbalth and Safety
Organization
Plant & Equipment     To demnmstrate how better  Oomparison of hire, lease,         5 days
Directors and        plant management can corr   purchase of plant
Senior Managers      tribute to improved        OrEanization and operation of
conpany perfornance        internal plant hire systems
Selection and usage of plant
Operational Accounts
Spares and Maintename
Safety
Administrative/       To create an awareness of  Training design nedels             5 days
Personnel Directors  the need for sound cagany Needs Analysis
and Training         training policies and to    Trainirg Methods
Officers             demonstrate how to create  Evaluation
and manage ccnpany         Managerent of Training
training prograns.



- 33 -
3.15     The training methodology to be adopted may vary from course to
course, and may change during the course of the project in the light of
experience.  In general, however, participative methods such as discussion
groups, case studies, etc. will be used. For these to be effective, they
must be related to Egyptian conditions and the collection and preparation of
relevant materials will be subcontracted to the Sadat Academy.
Evaluation
3.16     The ultimate test of the effectiveness of training is whether there
has been an improvement in the performance of the organization to which the
trainee belongs. The difficulty is to distinguish between improvements due
to training and those arising from other causes. In the 30-month life span
of this project, it is unrealistic to expect dramatic improvement in company
performance directly attributable to the technical assistance provided.
Nevertheless, it is important that evaluation should be part of the project.
3.17     Three kinds of evaluation have been identified:
(a)  Changes which occur in an individual's knowledge of a subject
between the start and end of a training course. These can be
simply measured by suitable tests and questionnaires.
(b)  The ability of the individual to apply his knowledge within his own
organization. This requires follow up at intervals after the end
of training in the form of reports and visits to the trainees'
organization.
(c)  Changes which occur within the organization as a result of the
application referred to in (b) above. This requires reporting from
the organization itself in both qualitative and quantitative forms.
3.18     All three require the establishment of "milestones" or
"bench-marks" against which change can be measured, and it will be the
responsibility of the project team to set these up at an early stage. The
project will also be evaluated through periodic reports from the EB (para
3.19) and through the supervision and completion reports of the Bank.
Delivery
3.19     The GOE has expressed interest in entrusting the delivery of the
technical assistance for the construction management development program to
the International Labor Organization (ILO). Given the satisfactory results
of similar arrangements under DIB V, this arrangement would be acceptable to
the Bank. The ILO will enter into a contract agreement with the GOE, which
is a condition of loan effectiveness. The ILO will be responsible for the
recruitment of the technical assistance team, as defined in paragraph 3.10
above, for provision of training equipment, for subcontracting arrangements
and for general administration and technical support. Details of the
services to be provided will be the subject of a proposal submitted by the
IWO for Government and Bank approval. The CVs of the three key experts
suggested by the ILO would be reviewed by the Government and subsequently



- 34 -
the Bank prior to their assignment. The general oversight and monitoring of
technical assistance will be the responsibility of the EB. The EB will hold
semi-annual meetings together with Bank staff and the IL0 to review the
progress of the technical assistance program and to make any changes that
may result from such reviews. If the GOE decides to arrange for the
delivery of technical assistance through another agency/consulting firm
rather than the IL0, procedures as stipulated in Bank guidelines will be
followed.
3. Technical Assistance to the Joint Committee for Development of
Construction Industry
3.20     The newly established JCDCI has a vital role to play in the
revitalization of the Egyptian construction industry. Its major task is to
develop better coordination and to improve the environment by taking action
on the recommendations of the CCIS. During negotiations agreement was
reached with the Government on a two-year work program for the JCDCI to
selectively address the various important issues confronting the industry.
The work program comprising a two-year time slice of some of the most
pressing of the Study's recommendations is given below. Given the need to
create a business environment conducive to fair competition and
cost-effectiveness, and to encourage greater private sector participation,
the action program focuses on formulation of detailed reforms in the
following key areas: changes in bidding procedures for public works,
including preparation of standard documents, general conditions of contract,
technical evaluation of bids, specifications, standards and codes of
practice, etc. The technical assistance component will enable the JCDCI to
engage consultants to undertake detailed technical work needed to translate
the recommendations into actionable programs. The consultants will be hired
in accordance with Bank guidelines and the terms-of-reference of the
consultants will be submitted to the Bank for review and approval.  The cost
of technical assistance to the JCDCI is estimated at $760,000, including
$450,000 in local currency and contingencies (Annex 12) . This would cover
60 staff months of consultants. This project component will be monitored
through periodic progress reports of the JCDCI and review of completed draft
documents on the various activities and tasks and through the supervision
and completion reports of the Bank. This will also give the Bank an
opportunity to engage the Government in a continuous policy dialogue on the
implementation of the other recommendations of the CCIS.



- 35 -
EGYPT - CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
JCDCI - TWO-YEAR WORK PROGRAM
MAIN OBJECTIVE - To create a business environment conducive to fair competition between public and private sector companies
leading to cost-effective performance.
Construction
Study Ref.      Ref. No.        Recoendations                 Objectives and Benefits                  Scope of Work                         Start Complete  Man-Konths
3.8, 3.9           1.1       Study current regulations,         To have nationvide standard             Preparation of 2                        1/85   4/86          16
procedures and practices           relating to tendering and con-          documents (1) Tender
relating to tendering              tract conditions for all public    and Contract Award
actions and contract awards        works leading to more competi-          Procedures and Regula-
and propose revisions and          tive prices and *ore equitable          tions and (2) General
changes                            conditions of contracts and             Conditions of Contract
tender evaluations
3.7, 3.12          1.2       Revise and develop a national   To have one uniform method of              1. Study the main interna-              4/85   6/86          12
standard method of measure-        measurement of construction             tional standards of measurement
ment and building specifics-    works applicable to the prepa-             and prepare one standard of
tions and codes of practice        ration of bills of quantities          measurement (measuring bills of
and site measurements in all           quantities on a uniform basis)
projects to eliminate current          for Egypt and arrange for its
discrepancies in measurement           publication in due course
methods and consequent diffi-          2. Prepare standard unit of
culties in pricirg and tender          measurement and guidelines for
evaluation                             the preparation of standard
national specifications which
would be the basis of all project
specifications for public works
3. Begin to update existing and
prepare new codes of practice
(regulating workmanship and use
of materials)
3.12, 3.13         1.3       Improve the procedures for         To improve the quality of               Prepare proposels related              6/85   6/86           6
(a) preparations of client's    present briefing thus avoiding            to land acquisition snd
brief leading to final designs  abortive designs and disputes             client's brief
and (b) land acquisition           and delays
3.10, 3.12         1.4       Develop price and cost             To produce price data in a              Prepare draft guidelines for            1/86   12/86         6
indices                            standard analytical fashion             the establishment of a system
for assistance in tender evalua-   in the MDHLR whereby schedule
tion, the introduction of cost         rates for work activities from
escalation clauses and to build    contracts are automatically
up a data bank to monitor trend    submitted for analysis and inc-
in prices and as a control             lusion in data bank.  Propose
measure in costs                       the most suitable agency to act
as an information centre for all
data related to construction
activity
1.7, 3.4           1.5      Establish scheme for                To determine capacity and com-         Review draft to be prepared             4/86   12/86         4
registration of contractors        petence of potential bidders           by the Egyptian Federation of
and to enable relevant minis-          Contractors, suggest modifica-
tries to invite only registered        tions and prepare a register
contractors to bid                     of contractors
3.16               1. 6     Introduce standard moii-            To ensure design complies              Prepare proposals for a                  1/86   12/86         10
toring system for client           with brief and that construc-          system of monitoring the
project control, including         tion complies with contract            construction process.  Make
delays in delivery of               specification, amount and time        monitoring system a required
essential building                 and maintenance requirements           procedure during the design
materials                          (due to inferior quality of             and construction stage
construction)
4.7                1.7       Institute basic and in-            To iaprowe professional and            Prepare proposala for training           4/86   12/86         6
service training of the            technical skills leading to            programs and devise incentives
client supervisory staff           improvements in the quality            necessary to retain experienced
and safety of construction             and qualified staff
works



- 36 -
4.  Technical Assistance to Participating Banks
3.21     While both DIB and BM have been recipients of Bank loans in the
past and are familiar with Bank procedures for subloan reviews, their
sub-project evaluation capability for the contracting sector is limited.
The technical assistance component will assist the two banks to recruit,
under Bank guidelines, consultants and also to deputize their staff to
attend training courses abroad and/or in Egypt.  In addition, the Bank has
prepared guidelines, a summary of which is contained in Annex 10, for the
use of the two banks and the criteria established in guidelines would be
applied by the banks in appraising sub-projects for construction equipment
under the loan.
C. Project Implementation
Lending Arrangements
3.22     The Government of Egypt will be the borrower for the loan of $100
million. The entire loan would be at the Bank's variable interest rate.
The Government would onlend the amount of $96.7 million for the credit
component, and the amounts of $ 100,000 each for the two participating banks
to them under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank. The
subsidiary loan would be at a fixed interest rate and will equal the Bank's
lending rate plus 1.5 percent. The margin of 1.5 percent will be charged by
the Government to cover the variable interest rate risk and the risk between
the US dollar and currencies owed the Bank which it would bear and also to
generate funds to help repay the cost of the technical assistance component
for management development. The credit component will be repaid by the
banks to the Government according to an amortization schedule which will
correspond to the aggregate of amortization schedules of all the subloans
made by the participating banks while the Government will repay the Bank
over a period of 20 years with a grace period of five years. The
participating banks will make subloans to eligible enterprises for terms up
to 15 years including a grace period of up to 3 years. The four technical
assistance components will also be repaid over a period of 20 years with a
grace period of five years.
(a) The Credit Component
3.23     The two participating banks will enter into project agreement with
the Bank regarding the use of the subsidiary loan proceeds. The credit
would not be preallocated between the banks by the Government but would be
available on a first come/first served basis. This would encourage good
performance and act as an incentive to the banks to generate the maximum
volume of business they can process. The two banks would be responsible for
payment of the Bank's commitment charge on their portion of the credit. The
Ministry of Investment and International Cooperation would provide
coordination among the participating banks.



- 37 -
3.24     The credit would not be preallocated between the public sector and
the private sector contracting companies.  This is because the private
sector companies are new (most of them are just finishing their first or
second major project) and still small (only a few have an annual turn-
over of LE 10 million). In addition private sector companies are mostly
involved in housing which is less equipment-intensive and are likely to only
gradually diversify into other activities. The public sector companies, on
the other hand, are involved in more equipment-intensive work and a large
proportion of their equipment fleet is obsolete and needs to be replaced.
However, since one of the main purpose of the proposed project is to
encourage greater participation of the private sector, the participating
banks have agreed under the project agreement with the Bank to make their
best efforts to ensure the maximum possible financial support to the private
sector. It is expected that between 35 and 45 sub-loans will be made under
the proposed loan with an average sub-loan size of $2.0 - $2.8 million, and
between 20 and 25 sub-loans will be made to the private sector companies.
Subproject Appraisals
3.25     The banks would follow the guidelines prepared by the Bank and
agreed during negotiations for appraisal of all subloans to contracting
companies for purchase of construction equipment and for permanent working
capital. Subloans to projects for manufacture of building materials will be
appraised by the banks following their normal appraisal procedures which
include a complete appraisal of technical, managerial, financial and
economic aspects of the projects. A minimum economic rate of return of 12
percent and a minimum financial rate of return equal to the interest rate
applicable to the foreign currency sub-loan will be required for all
subloans exceeding $650,000 or subprojects for which total costs exceed LE
800,000. Since these conventional methods of evaluation are not very useful
in evaluating applications for loans for purchase of equipment used by
construction contractors, the criteria developed in the guidelines (Annex
10) will be applied.
Free limits
3.26     Both banks will have a free limit of $1.0 million for individual
subloans. It is expected that about 20-25 sub-projects accounting for about
$20 million will fall below the free limit. The first three subloans for
purchase of construction equipment from each participating bank will be
treated as above free limit as appraisal procedures for such subloans have
been newly designed, and the banks will have to acquire familiarity with the
methodology.
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
3.27     Subloans will carry a fixed interest rate for the life of the loan



- 38 -
of a minimum of 14 percent (i.e. a 2.5 percent spread for the participating
banks and 1.5 percent for the Government).  The interest rate structure will
be reviewed annually to reflect changes in the cost of similar, alternative
funds to Egyptian borrowers, and the new rates will be applied to the
uncommitted portion of the Bank loan. Subloans will be denominated in US
dollars.  Subborrowers would be obligated to repay their subloans in local
currency at the highest exchange rate between the LE and the US$ declared by
the Central Bank of Egypt at the time of repayment and thus carry the risk
between the Egyptian pound and the US dollar. The Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the currencies owed the
Bank.  The front end and commitment fees will be passed on to the
sub-borrowers as additional charges thus increasing the effective lending
rates to about 16 percent which is comparable to the rates currently
prevailing in the international capital markets and also the domestic
inflation rate which is projected to average 13 percent per annum in the
next 3 years.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.28     Subloans to the construction contractors would be used to procure
tools, equipment and vehicles of different type and in different
quantities. The procurement process would require that these items be
packaged according to their potential supplies (dealers or producers); the
process is complicated by the fact that different suppliers might be able to
provide different combinations of items. The ultimate decision to define
procurement packages and select the suppliers would rest with the individual
borrowers. However, the participating banks would require that, unless
otherwise agreed, the borrowers follow (i) international shopping procedures
involving comparison of at least three comparable offers for all packages
involving an estimated expenditure of up to $2 million, and (ii) ICB
procedures for construction equipment for packages in excess of $2 million
equivalent. ICB would be in accordance with Bank guidelines and subject to
prior Bank review.
3.29     At present, the construction equipment and vehicles owned by the
industry as well as the individual firms is characterized by a great variety
of types and makes. Increased standardization, as a rule, is highly
advisable to facilitate maintenance, enhance the availability of spare parts
and, ultimately, reduce overall operating costs. To this end JCDCI and the
participating banks would assist the borrowers to combine procurement of
similar items in joint calls for bids to be also carried out according to
the procurement procedures described above. The inconveniences to the
borrowers of following a similar procedure would be compensated by the
likely lower prices resulting from bulk procurement. In addition, JCDCI and
the participating banks would provide assistance and advice to all borrowers
(in particular small contracting firms of the private sector) on the most
suitable way of packaging their procurement needs.
3.30     The proposed loan of $100 million is projected to be committed over
2 1/2 years and disbursed over five years.
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
---------$ million- --------
6.0   35.5   35.8   17.0    5.7



- 39 -
The projected disbursement profiles are in line with experience to date on
previous DIB loans under which DIB has made subloans for construction
equipment and machinery for the manufacture of building materials. The
percentage of expenditures for items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan is:  (i) credit component - amounts disbursed by the
participating banks for 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent
of local expenditures defined as the local purchase cost of imported
equipment purchased "off the shelf" from local machinery dealers; (ii)
technical assistant components - 100 percent of the cost of consultants
recruited for the delivery of all three technical assistant components.  The
final date for submission of subloans would be June 30, 1987 and the closing
date for disbursements December 31, 1989. Disbursements would be made
against standard documentation.
(b) Technical Assistance for Management Development
3.31     The Government will be responsible for repayment of the amount of
$2.5 million allocated for this component of the project. The Government
will also contribute LE 1.4 million towards this program to meet the local
currency costs. The amount of repayment, together with interest at the Bank
rate, will be generated out of the 1.5 percent margin on the credit com-
ponent which will be charged by the Government to the participating banks.
As the management development program will be designed by ILO (see para.
3.19), payment by the Bank will be made to ILO in accordance with the pay-
ment terms to be specified in the project agreement to be executed between
the Government and ILO.
(c) Technical Assistance to the JCDCI
3.32     The amount of $0.3 million allocated for this TA component will be
repaid by the Government in accordance with the amortization period stated
in para. 3.22. The Government will also contribute LE 0.4 million towards
this program to meet the local currency costs.
(d) and (e)  Technical Assistance to Participating Banks
3.33     The two participating banks would be allocated $100,000 each for
recruitment, under bank guidelines, of consultants to help their staff in
carrying out appraisals of subloans to contracting companies.  It is
expected that 8 man months of consultant services will be provided to each
of the two banks. Repayment of any amount utilized by the banks for
engaging consultants would be the responsibility of the banks themselves, as
per the amortization period specified in para 3.22.
Accounts and Audits
3.34     Project accounting and audit procedures would be in line with the
other Bank Group projects in which DIB and BM are participating. Both
participating banks would prepare annual budgets, quarterly progress
reports, summary loan statements, and annual accounts as they relate to
project activities. The participating banks would maintain detailed
memoranda of records, ledger and control accounts relating to subproject



- 40 -
cycle progress including appraisals, approvals, disbursements, contribution
by borrowers, interest charges, installments due, collection, overdues and
follow-up action.  These records would be reviewed periodically by Bank
supervision missions. Under the project, the banks would be required to
submit the audited statements of project accounts and related audit reports
to the Bank within nine months after the end of the financial year. An
assurance to this effect was obtained from DIB and BM during negotiations as
well as to the effect that the audit arrangements of the banks themselves
would continue to be satisfactory to the Bank Group. Semi-annual reports
and project accounts for the technical assistance components would be
prepared under the auspices of the MDHLR and submitted to the Bank for
review and approval.
D.  Project Benefits and Risks
Project Benefits
3.35     The construction/contracting industry plays a critical role in the
development of the Egyptian economy. Recent Government actions in
establishing JCDCI and EFC set the basis for longer term improvements in the
environment and structure of the industry. The proposed project would
further this process by the provision of technical assistance to the JCDCI
and continuing dialogue with the Government on the necessary reforms for the
sector.  In the short run, the project would also help improve the capacity
and performance of the sector by the provision of financial assistance for
the purchase of urgently required equipment and technical assistance to
upgrade the management of construction enterprises, which is the key to
better deployment of scarce human, financial and material resources.  In
particular, by making funds available to private sector companies, which
currently have more difficulty in securing the necessary finance, the
proposed loan would encourage their greater participation in the sector.
This would be further fostered by expected changes in the Government's
tendering procedures, conditions of contact and other related legislation.
Finally, the project would provide technical assistance to the two
participating banks to strengthen their capacity to evaluate and monitor
lending to contracting companies.
Project Risks
3.36     There are two kinds of risks attached to the proposed project.  (a)
the present limited capability of the participating banks to evaluate sub-
projects in the construction sector which could result in sub-optimal
projects and (b) slow pace of implementation due to (i) the risks inherent
in construction industry arising from strong fluctuations in demand; (ii)
management deficiencies since the contractor is responsible for price, time
limit, volume and quality of work; and (iii) substantial delays in payments
from the client for completed works resulting from disputes regarding
conditions of contract and/or general scarcity of funds.
3.37     The financial intermediaries selected for the proposed project have



- 41 -
agreed to establish the system and the staff necessary for evaluating con-
tractors' creditworthiness. The provision of technical assistance to the
banks as well as prior Bank review and approval of the first three
subprojects from each participating bank to contractors for import of
construction equipment will assist the participating banks in their
evaluation of subprojects.
3.38     The risks resulting from fluctuations in demand are considered
minimal given the pent up demand for construction and investment in housing,
infrastructure and productive sectors. The Government, the main client, has
a target annual average growth rate of 8 percent in the new Development
Plan, 1982/83-86/87. Poor management can only enhance the risk factor in
construction by hampering the efficient use of fixed assets and thus
difficulties in meeting financial obligations. The technical assistance
component dealing with management development under the proposed project is
designed to overcome this deficiency. As an added security, loans to public
sector companies are associated with technical assistance to the recipient
companies to help them overcome their management and technical
shortcomings. Delays in payments from the client generate additional
financial costs to the contractor. The Government has already started
compensating the contractors for delays in payments, although at interest
rates which are substantially below the market rates. A more permanent
solution lies in amending the conditions of contracts for public works and
preparation of standard conditions which include the accrual of commercial
interest on delayed contract payments. The newly established institutions
(JCDCI and EFC) will accord priority to strengthening contractual, financial
and professional practices in the public works sector.



- 42 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following.
A.   The Government would:
(i)   bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and other
currencies owed the Bank (para 3.27);
(ii)   bear the local currency costs of the technical assistance
components for management development estimated at LE 1.4 million
(para 3.31) and JCDCI estimated at LE 0.4 million (para 3.32);
(iii)   be responsible for repayment of the amount of $2.5 million allo-
cated for the technical assistance component for management
development and the amount of $0.3 million allocated for technical
assistance to the JCDCI (paras 3.31 and 3.32);
(iv)   submit the TOR to the Bank for review and approval of the
consultants to be hired (paras 3.19 and 3.20);
(v)   charge a spread of 1.5 percent on the amount of $96.9 million for
onlending to the participating banks to cover the variable interest
rate risk and the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and
other currencies owed the Bank and to help repay the cost of the
technical assistance component for management development (para
3.22);
(vi)   undertake a review of the interest rate structure (para 3.27);
(vii)    ensure that its ministries and other departments will procure their
civil works under procedures which will ensure the widest possible
competition among contractors (para 1.25); and
(viii)   ensure that MDHLR prepares and submits to the Bank semi-annual
reports and project accounts for the technical assistance
components related to management development and the JCDCI (para
3.34).



- 43 -
B.   The Participating Banks would:
(i)    on-lend the Bank loan proceeds at a minimum rate of 14 percent
(made up of a spread of 2.5 percent for the banks and 1.5
percent for the Government), with the exchange risk between the
US dollar and the Egyptian pound borne by the subborrowers (para
3.27);
(ii)    engage consultants for staff training and technical appraisal of
subprojects on tenms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.33);
(iii)    follow subproject appraisal criteria in accordance with the
agreed guidelines (para 3.25);
(iv)    ensure that loans for construction equipment to public sector
contracting companies are accompanied by technical assistance
for management development (para 3.06);
(v)    follow the free limit for individual subloans of $l.0 million
(para 3.26);
(vi)    observe the ceiling of $5.0 million on sub-loans (para 3.05);
(vii)    observe auditing and reporting procedures (para 3.34); and
(viii)   make their best efforts to ensure maximum private sector
participation (para 3.24).
4.02     Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and participating banks and the contract agreement between the
Government and the delivery agency for technical assistance for
management development will be the conditions of effectiveness (paras
3.22 and 3.19).
4.03     Subject to the understanding and conditions listed above, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $100.0 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Demand for Construction, 1981/82-1986/87 PLAN
(LE million)
SECTOR               TOTAL INVESTMENT      INVESTMENT IN        PERCENT
CONSTRUCTION      CON STRUCT ION
Agriculture                  3,739                2,255              60.3
Industry                     8,617               2,464              2 8.6
Petroleum                    1,337                  307              23.0
Electricity                  2,904                  639              22.0
Contracting                     942                  31               3.3
Transportation               6,114               2,784              45.5
Trade & Finance                 580                 214              36.9
Tourism                        453                  146              32.2
Housing                      4,637               4,213               90.8
Infrastructure               2,858               1,857              65.0
Public Service               2,610                1,373              52.6
TOTAL                   34,791              16,293              46.8
Source: Ministry of Planning.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
EGw
cxISIRTLION INDUS11 1ROJEHT
Building Mterials Supply arnl Dmarnd, 1981/82 - 1986/87
1981/82                       1986/87            Am'al averae Gwwth Rate
Appareit                       Apparent               Apparent
Prodution inports (bnsuption Production   ports tbnxrption  Produr-tion Oxnsuption
Iron ('000 tons)        300     670         970        650     650       1,300        16.7         6.0
Canent ('000 tons)    4,000   3,400       7,400     15,000  (2,200)     12,800        30.0        11.6
Stori ('000 m3)       8,500       -       8,500     13,200       -      13,200         9.2         9.2
Sard ( '000 m 3)      7,100       -       7,100     11,000       -      11,000         9.2         9.2
Wood Products( '000 m)  1,200     -        1,200     2,000       -       2,000        10.8        10.8
Bricks (million)      2,627       -       2,627      4,055       -       4,055         9.1         9.1
Glass ('000 tons)        21      56          77         40      55          95        13.8         4.3
Tiles ('000 m )       12,500      -       12,500     18,000      -      18,000         7.6         7.6
Cjpsum ('000 tons)      600      -          600      1,000       -       1,000        10.8        10.8
Wood ('000 m3)            -      73          73          -     130         130         -          12.2
Source: Ministry of Plannirrg



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
DIB - Condensed Income Statements, 1980-1983
(LE 000)
For Years Ending                          6/30/80    6/30/81       6/30/82    6/30/83
(6 mos.)
INCOME
Interest on Deposits                        153.9        192.2        873.3       568.2
Interest on Local Currency Loans          3,347.3    10,803.5    16,372.6   21,170.1
Interest on Foreign Currency
Loans                                     1,730.4      4, 853.4     7,741.8   14,430. 9
Other Income                              660.9      1,684.4      2,632.1    3,679.9
Total Income                            5, 8 92.5    17, 533.5    27,619.8   3 9, 84 9.1
EXPENSES
Interest On Local Currency Debts          1,204.2      4,380. 9     6,628.7    8,439.5
Interest on Foreign Currency
Debts                                     1,196.1      3,340.7      5,641.3    8, 935.8
Other Charges                                63.5        436.8        498.4    1,022.6
Administrative Expenses                     761.7      1,770.6      2,740.4    2,780.9
Provisions for Doubtful Debts             1,085.0      3,117.0      6,26 9.0    8,836.0
Other Provisions                            171.9        144.8        582.5    1,179.6
Total Expenses                          4,482.4    13,190.8    22,360.3   31,194.4
Net Profit before Taxes                   1,410.1      4,342.7      5,259.5    8,645.7
Taxes                                       815.1      2,858.7      3,759.5    5,695.7
Net Profit                                  595.0      1,484.0      1,500.0    2, 950.(0
Appropriations
Reserves                                    148.7        463.7        426.9       738.0
Dividends to CBE                            334.7        765.2        804.8    1,659.0
Dividends to Employees                      111.6        255.1        268.3       553.0
595.0      1,484.0      1,500.0    2, 950.0
Ratios
Profit before tax/Av. Equity (x)             13.8         18.9         20.0        30.5
Profit before tax/Av. Total
Assets (M)                                    2.8          3.2          2.6         3.2
Admin. Expenses/Av. Total Assets (%           1.6          1.2          1.4         1.2
Average Spread on Borrowing
(Excluding Current Deposits) (%)            5.3          6.3          4.4         4.2



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
DIB - Condensed Balance Sheets, 1980-1983
(LE'000)
As of June 30                             1980        1981        1982        1983
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                         4,726.7      5,077.8      9,843.8    10,104.3
Other Current Assets                    5,724. 9    7,421.0      7,254.1     3X626*2
Total Current Assets                  10,451.6    12,498.8    17,097.9    13,730.5
Portfolio
Loans Outstanding                    101,139.6   153,348.4  .234,375.6   316,171.8
(Less: Provisions for
doubtful debts)                       (4, 933.0)   (8,127.6)  (14,520.6)  (23,230.0)
Net Loans Outstanding                 96,206.6   145,220.8    219,855.0   292,941.8
Equity Investments                     1,370.7      1,567.1       2,864.8     4,474.0
(less: Provisions for likely
losses)                                  (15.9)       (16.2)         (2.4)      (81.3)
Net Equity Investments                  1,354.8     1,550.9       2,862.4     4,392.7
Net Loans and Equity Portfolio         97,561.4   146,771.7    222,717.4   297,334.5
Net Fixed Assets                           15.9        19.4          18.9        18.9
Total Assets                         10 ,028.9   159,289.9    239,834.2   311,083.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                         1,411.7     1,041.0       2,038.3     3,013.4
Time Deposits                             955.6     1,691.1       1,099.6     1,224.3
Other Current Liabilities               1,261.4     3, 972.0      4,884.5     8,041.9
Total Current Liabilities              3,628.7      62704.1       8,022.4    12,279.6
Long Term Debt
Deposits                               5,065.1      9, 002. 9    14,135.8    20,167.5
Central Bank of Egypt                 37,574.6    54,284.5      66,053.7    40,641.6
Other Banks                            2,555.0      2,509.8      17, 979.3    57, 924.3
Foreign Currency Loans                34,908.6    54,1-3.2       90,599.7   132,330.9
Total Long Term Debt                  80, 103.3   119,9 90.4    188,768.5   251,064.3
Administrative Provisions                 520.2       558.7       1,000.4     1,324.8
Taxes & Dividends Payable              3,222.5      6,013.7      15,593-0    14,214.7
EQUITY
Pa id-in-Capital                      20,000.0    25,000.0       25,000.0    30,000.0
Reserves                                  554.2     11023.0       1,449.9     2,200.5
Total Equity                          20,554.2    26,023.0       26,449. 9    32,200. 5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         108,028.9   159,289.9    239,834.2   311,083.9
RATIOS:
Current Ratio (times)                       2.3         1.9           1.3         1.1
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                   3.8         4.4           6.7          7.3
Provisions and Reserves/
Portfolio (%)                               5.4         5.9           6.7         7.9



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Development Industrial Bank: Projected Income Statements, 1984-1987
(LE '000)
For Years Ending June 30                 1984        1985       1986       1987
I NCO ME
Interest on local loans             24,582     28,830      32,954     38,521
Interest on foreign Loans           21,213     26,407      35,246     42,008
Other Income                       4,482      5,020       5,423      5,745
Total Income                      50,277     60,257      73,623     86,274
EXPENSES
Interest Paid to local banks         9,160      10,496     12,551     14,744
Interest paid on foreign loans      14,926     18,922      26,162     31,476
Other expenses                         303         318        334        350
Administrative Expenditure           3,794      4,523       5,398      6,448
Admin. Provisions                      436         451        466        483
Provisions for Loan losses           8,957      9,631      10,343     11,014
Total Expenditure                   37,572     44,342      55,255     64,515
Profit before Taxes                     12,705      15,915     18,368     21,757
Taxes                                8,705      9,915      11,368     13,757
Net Profit                               4,000       6,000      7,000       8,000



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Development Industrial Bank:  Projected Balance Sheets, 1984-1987
(LE '000)
As of June 30                             1984        1985        1986       1987
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                           10,416      10,743     11,087      11,448
Other                                     3,626       3,626      3,626       3,626
Total Current Assets                     14,042      14,369     14,713      15,074
Portfolio
Outstanding loans 1/                    374,364    459,019    551,477    641,290
Investments                               6,779      10,273     13,273      16,273
Provisions                              (32,454)   (42,391)   (53,040)   (64,360)
Net Portfolio                           348,689    426,901    511,710    593,203
Government Bonds                            387         587         887      1,237
Net Fixed Assets                             79         139         199        259
Total Assets                            363,197    441,996    527,509    609,773
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Deposits                                  4,437       4,658      4,891       5,136
Other                                     9,664      10,124      9,148       7,297
Total Current Liabilities                14,101      14,782     14,039      12,433
Long Term Debt
Borrowers Deposits                       24,224      28,395     32,784      37,612
Central Bank of Egypt                    27,813     33,360      34,917      38,216
Other Banks                              77,500      97,500    117,500    137,500
Foreign Currency Debt                   166,197    212,242    263,439    308,866
Total Long Term Debt                    295,734    371,497    448,640    522,194
Administrative Provisions                 1,457       1,602      1,762       1,939
Taxes & Dividends Payable                11,705      14,415     16,618      19,757
EQUITY
Capital                                  35,000      35,000     40,000      45,000
Reserves                                  3,200       4,700      6,450       8,450
Total Equity                             38,200      39,700     46,450      53,450
Liabilities and Equity                  363,197    441,996    527,509    609,773
1/ Including short term working capital loans.



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Bank Misr - Income Statements, 1980 - 1983
(LE '000)
Years Ending June 30                 1980            1981            1982            1983
(6 months)
INCOME
Interest on Loans                    33,295          99,681         170,721         227,216
Interest on Deposits                30,469           78,139          79,371          61,144
Total Interest Income             63,764          177,820         250,092         288,360
Income from  Investments              5,232          13,026          16,570          18,847
Commissions                          17,462          45,618          57,066          59,111
Other Income                          4,085           5,211          11,938          10,559
Total Income                       90,543         241,675         335,666         376,872
EXPENSES
Interest on Deposits &
Foreign Loans                     37,290          106, 952        155,718         190,752
Interest to Banks                       327           1,030           1,151           2,710
Total Interest Expenses           37,617          107, 982        156,869         193,462
Salaries and Wages                    9,483          26,607          36,687          38,766
Administrative Expenses               4,567          14,401          17,123          16,981
Depreciation                            380           1,987           1,842            1,152
Provisions                           10,539             773          46,800          46,800
Total Expenses                    62,586          176,750         259,321         297,161
Profit Before Taxes                  27,957          64,925          76,345          79,711
Taxes                                 5,614          29,133          30,274          28,456
Net Profit                        22,343           35,812          46,071          51,255
RATIOS
Profit Before Taxes/
Aver. Equity (%)                     55.0           108.7           103.5             90.6
Profit Before Taxes/
Aver. Total Assets (%)                1.4             2.7             2.4             2.0
Admistrative Expenses/
Aver. Total Assets (%)                0.7             1.8             1.7              1.5
Average Interest Spread of
Loans over Deposits (%)               1.0             2.1             2.8             3.6



- 51 -
ANNEX 8
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Bank Misr - Balance Sheets, 19R0   1983
(LE '000)
As of June 30                       1980            1981            1982             1983
ASSETS
Cash & Balance with
Central Bank                     305,582         262,787         653,450         593,277
Balances with
Commercial Banks                 597, 909        587,411         600,114         756,515
Total Cash & Balances            903,491         850,198       1,253,564       1,349,792
Government Securities              116,779         152,061         154,008         148,243
Equity Investments                  22,461          30,595          38,748          5 9,581
Other Securities                    20,148          30,836          36,783          45,629
Total Investments                15 9,388        213,492         220,539         253,453
Loans to Banks                      40,279          98,193         156,002         286,210
Loans to Customers                 915,375       1,556,082       2,150,995       2,327,725
Bills Discounted                       635           5,312           8, 924         10,857
Loans to Government                150,000          60,000          45,000           -
Total Loans                    1,106,239       1, 719,588      2,360, 921      2,624,792
Fixed Assets & Others               31,149          28,450          43,571          47,770
Less: Provisions                   (75, 839)       (94,358)       (139,463)       (172,377)
Total Assets                   2,124,478       2,717,370       3,748,132       4,103,432
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Demand Deposits                    601,378         682,477         872,140       1,040, 942
Time Deposits                      515,320         666,090         995,582       1,285,852
Savings Deposits & Others          460,048         511,503656,419                  814,473
Total Deposits                 1,576,746       1,860,070       2,524,141       3,141,267
Due to Central Bank                  1,250           1,250           1,250            1,250
Due to Other Banks                 360,569         508,036         772,889         52 9, 916
Foreign Borrowings                  30,389          89,549         100,455           92,401
Dividends Payable                   13,995          24,099          29,244          36,975
Other Debts                         87,827         168,617         238,334         207,475
Total Debts                      494,030         7 91,551      1,142,172         868,017
Paid-in Capital                     11,000          15,000          20,000          20,000
Reserves                            42,702          50,749          61,819          74,146
Total Equity                      53,702          65,749          81,819          94,146
Total Liabilities
and Equity                   2,124,478       2,717,370       3,748,132       4,103,432
Guarantees & Other
Contingent Liabilities           586, 359        869,235         862,458       1,121,162
RATIOS
Cash Balances/Deposits (%)            57.3            45.7             49.7            43.0
Loans/Deposits (%)                    70.2            92.4             93.5           83.6
Liabilities/Equity (times)            38.6            40.3             44.8            42.6
Provisions and Reserves/
Loan Portfolio (%)                  10.7             8.4             8.5              9.4



- 52 -
ANNEX 9
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Bank Misr - Financial Projections, 1984 - 1988
(LE million)
1984          1985          1986          1987          1988
A.  BALANCE SHEETS
Assets
Cash & Banks               1,539         1,754         1,900         2,080         2,300
Loans                      2,940         3,352         3,888         4,588         5,505
Investments                  278           306           337           370           407
Fixed Assets & Others         54            60            67.           76            85
Less: Provisions            (213)         (261)         (322)         (398)         (486)
Total Assets            4,598          5,211         5,870         6,716         7,811
Liabilities & Equity
Deposits                   3,581         4,082         4,653         5,305         6,048
Borrowings & Other
Debts                      908           997         1,068         1,237         1,566
Total Liabilities       4,489          5,079         5,721         6,542         7,614
Paid-in Capital               20            25            25            30            30
Reserves                      89           107           124           144           167
Total Equity               109           132           149           174           197
Total Liabilities
& Equity                4,598          5,211         5,870         6,716         7,811
B . INCOME STATEMENTS
Income
Interest on Loans            256           295           306           403           471
Interest on Deposits          69            81            89           100           110
Income from Investments       21            23            25            28            31
Commissions                   67            77            90           107           127
Other Income                  11            13            15            18            21
Total Income              424           489            565           656           760
Expenses
Interest Expenses            232           268           310           363           424
Administrative Expenses       64            72            81            91           102
Provisions                    41            48            61            76            88
Total Expenses             337           388           452           530           614
Profit Before Taxes         87            99           113           126           146
Taxes                       31            35            40            44            52
Net Profit                  56            64            73            82            94



- 53 -
EGYPT                          ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Condensed Guidelines for Appraisal of Sub-Projects
(Construction Contracting Companies)
A. Subloan Eligibility and Components
1.       Subloans will be made to construction contractors in both public and
private sectors for purchase of construction equipment. Subloans to public
sector companies will have to be accompanied by technical assistace for
managerial development. The areas in which technical assistance is necessary
for each public sector company will differ from company to company and these
areas should be identified with the assistance of the advisory team during
appraisal of subloans. The TA component will not be financed out of subloans
as separate arrangements are being made. The subloans will cover the cost of
equipment on CIF basis as usual.
B. Priorities
2.       Subloan applications should be considered according to the following
system of priorities:
(a) application for purchase of spare parts, tools and related
machines to be used for repairs and overhaul of existing
equipment and plant;
(b) applications for procurement of new equipment to replace existing
equipment which cannot be rehabilitated economically; and
(c) applications for procurement of new equipment for expansion of
capacity of the company or diversification of operations into new
area of construction work.
3.       In general, priority should be given to applications for improving
the prospective subborrowers existing equipment fleet, rather than expanding
its number, variety and capacity.
C. Aspects to be Examined:
4.       It is inappropriate to appraise borrowers in the construction
contracting business as would be done in the manufacturing sector.
Construction equipment is used intermittently, on a variety of projects, under
differing conditions and even in different ways over a period of several
years. The contribution of any one machine can not be measured per se, but
must be evaluated in terms of overall efficiency of the operations of the
firm. Therefore conventional methods of evaluation such as rates of return,
pay back periods and break-even analysis are not very useful in evaluating
applications for loans for purchase of equipment used by construction
contractors. Less specific and more qualitative considerations have to be
applied.



- 54 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
Management Aspects
5.       In case of public sector companies, particular attention should be
paid to the background of top management and the length of association of top
managers with the company. In case a substantial number of top managers is
due to retire in the near future, the quality and number of second level staff
should receive particular attention. The number and experience of technical
staff such as site engineers should be assessed for adequacy in relation to
work on hand. The availability of financial information and operational
information such as cash flows, billing information, outstanding claims and
receipts should be treated as an indicator of the efficiency of the financial
management of the company. To sum up, the profitabilty of a public sector
company is not to be necessarily taken as adequate proof of the efficiency or
adequacy of its management systems, as can be assumed for private sector
contractors.
Operational Aspects
6.       The most important criteria in judging the operation of a
construction contractor is the backlog of work and prospects for continued
work in the future. The volume of work on hand and contracts under execution
should be examined; and based on past record of rate of execution of work
(i.e. annual turnover), a judgement should be made of prospects and volume of
turnover in the next 2-3 years. If possible, the period of projections should
be extended for the entire life of the equipment proposed to be acquired.
Following information must be examined to evaluate the operational aspects of
a contracting company:
(i)    Completed projects - cost, time and problems encountered.
(ii)    Projects on hand and anticipated work - cost, number and type of
projects as well as forecast profit.
(iii)    Equipment - age, utilization and adequacy of equipment for executing
anticipated volume of work.
(iv)    Structure of firm - division of authority and responsibility,
coordinaion between field and office functions, etc.
(v)    Methods of procuring work, cost estimation and bidding procedures.
Choice of Equipment
7.       Loan applications for relatively costly equipment should be
accompanied by justification for the equipment based on work forecast and
underlying assumptions. If there is a possibility of renting a particular
piece of equipment, the relative costs of renting, leasing with an option to
buy or an outright purchase should be compared. As the cost of repairs and
overhaul of construction equipment frequently exceeds the purchase price, it
is necessary to evaluate the cost of the equipment over its whole life. Such
a study should also take the availability of spare parts, overhaul facilities
and technical assistance and training into account.



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
Financial Analysis
8.       Financial analysis of contracting companies has to be carried out
bearing in mind that contracting business rarely has a steady level of
operations. There are frequent and large fluctuations in volume of business
depending on availibility of work. Secondly, as price of most building
materials in controlled, profitability depends on efficiency of work. In case
of public sector companies executing work for the government, the owner of the
companies, supplier of material and the client are one and the same i.e. the
Government. The performance of public sector companies has to be evaluated
taking this unique environment into account, and such companies can be
appraised only by comparison with other similar public sector companies rather
than by comparison with some abstract standard. Therefore, analysis of trends
in the following ratios over the past five years should be carried out and the
applicant company's ratio trend should be compared with the mean ratios for a
group of public sector companies (Attachment I). If the ratios of the
applicant are consistently better than the mean, there is a prima facie case
to conclude that the applicant's performance is acceptable. Taking the nature
of the contracting business into account, the following ratios are to be
studied:
Operational Ratios
(i)    Cost of Goods Sold
Turnover
(ii)    Gross Margin
Turnover
(iii)   Salaries & Wages
Turnover
(iv)    Cost of Materials
Turnover
(v)    Depreciation
Turnover
(vi)    Volume of Subcontracts
Turnover
(vii)   Net Fixed Assets
Turnover
Financial Ratios
(i)    Current Assets
Current Liabilities



- 56 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
(ii)    Net Profit before Interest and Taxes
Total Revenues
(iii)   Net Fixed Assets
Equity
(iv)    Net Profit before Taxes
Equity
(v)    Cash + Receivables
Total Liabilities
It must be remembered that no simple ratio can be studied in isolation and a
judgement of the company's operational and financial performance should be
made by looking at all these ratios together, and also that the trend, or
change in the ratios over a period of five years is more important than the
set of ratios in any particular year.
D. Format of Appraisal Report. A typical subproject appraisal report should
have the following format:
(a)  Company Background - History
Organizational Structure
- Staff quality and number
(b)  Past Performance   - Turnover Growth
- Profitability
- Financial Structure
- Comparison with similar Companies
- Equipment Utilization and
Maintenance
(c)  Purpose of Loan    - Equipment list
- Justification for Purchase
- Prices
(d)  Company Prospects  - Work on Hand
- Projected time of completion
- Assessment of ability
- Estimate of likely new work
(e) Likely Financial
Performance    - Based on past trends.



- 57 -
Operating andl Finarcial Ratios of Selected PiblicAtahetIPgI
Sector (bntmctirig Omnpanies, 1977-iB2
(PFTfl1.TII~TDS Yr.    I    II   III    IV    V    VI      VII  VIII  ix      X    )a  X(II   XIII   XIV 14an
(bet of GDode SlDW    77   93.0   97.0  94.0  95.0  93.0  94.0  96.0  94.0  96.0  91.0  97.0  95.0  95.0  58.0  92.0
SRirrmr MX       78   90.0   98.0  94.0  94.0  97.0  95.0  93.0  93.0  42.0  92.0  99.0  93.0  94.0  98.0  91.0
79   93.0   97.0  96.0  96.0  99.0  93.0  97.0  98.0  96.0  95.0  99.0  92.0  94.0  82.0  95.0
80   94.0   99.0  96.0  95.0  99.0  97.0  96.0  96.0  99.0  98.0 105.0  90.0  92.0  97.0  97.0
81   95.0   99.0  93.0  96.0  98.0  95.0  95.0  96.0 111.0  96.0 10l3.0  96.0  97.0  96.0  97.0
82   95.0   97.0  96.0  97.0 108.0  97.0  97.0  97.0 115.0  99.0 105.0  85.0  88.0  97.0  98.0
Gioss Migin (Z)     77    6.9    3.0   5.7   4.1   6.8   6.3   4.2   5.8   3.8   8.6   3.9   5.3  4.9  41.7   7.9
78    9.8    1.6   6.0   6.4   5.8   5.0   6.9   7.1  58.3   7.8   1.1   7.2   5.4   1.7   8.9
79    7.0    2.7   3.8   3.6   1.2   6.5   3.1   1.5   3.9   4.9   0.4   8.2   6.1  17.9   5.1
80    5.9    1.2   3.8   4.7   1.3   3.2   3.9   4.1   1.2   2.0  (4.7)  9.6   7.9   3.3   3.4
&1    4.6    1.4   7.2   3.5   1.9   5.0   4.5   4.3 (11.3)  3.8  (3.4)  3.5   3.1  3.5   2.3
82    4.8    3.0   4.2   3.0  (7.7)  3.0   3.3   2.6 (15.3)  0.8  (5.4) 15.3  11.0   3.1   1.8
(bet of Miterials    77   37.6   20.6  25.4  27.1  37.8  29.6  48.7  40.6  52.9  34.0  46.5  31.6  40.5 153.8  42.1
MDntwr (Z        78   34.2   20.7  27.0  30.1  35.8  31.9  50.0  34.0  50.5  34.5  40.9  29.4  28.3  36.9  35.2
79   31.6  23.1  19.7  39.0  42.0  30.3  21.6  52.6  52.3  31.5  22.8  52.1  31.5  91.4  38.7
80   46.5   29.8  24.4  34.0  83.7  14.4  22.2  46.8  29.8  22.6  40.0  18.0  18.0  50.0  35.0
81   42.0   31.1  54.0  54.4  48.3  35.8  42.1  52.6  73.5  27.9  50.0  37.8  51.6  40.8  32.9
82   50.0   25.4  36.2  47.7  50.0  37.8  33.3  53.6  69.2  23.0  47.3  26.1  41.7  35.2  41.2
Depieiation/        77   11.8    9.0  10.4   3.6  12.0   9.6   6.5   9.4  14.1  11.1   6.8   3.5  17.2  34.6  11.4
TanrkoW (Z       78   10.5    7.5  17.6   5.9  13.2  11.0   5.9   7.4  10.8  11.8   5.5   4.4  14.7  10.0   9.7
79    7.7    9.6  12.3   8.2  15.0   9.8   3.2   9.7  10.1   7.8   3.4   6.8  13.0  27.6  10.3
80    9.8    7.6   9.8   4.0  10.5   4.4   2.7   4.3   5.7   6.2   3.4   5.5   3.4   5.5   5.9
81   11.0    8.9  27.6   7.5  10.3   8.4   4.2   9.4  16.6   6.0   8.6   7.1   7.6   9.4  10.2
82    7.9    8.4  18.1   5.7  12.5   9.0   5.4   9.1  18.5   4.6   6.9   6.0  11.1   9.0   9.4
Salaries & Wgges    77   22.9   52.4  16.4  10.1  20.0  24.1  10.7  23.7  18.0   6.1  31.7  19.3  18.9 ]D0.0  26.7
flirnwr (Z       78   25.0   56.4  17.6  16.5  20.7  29.7  10.0  20.3  20.4  15.4  30.2  19.1  19.6  18.0  22.8
79   19.3   39.6  15.3  21.9  26.0  29.3   7.5  31.6  21.8  10.9  21.9  21.9  20.4  43.1  23.6
80   23.9   38.4  13.4  12.8  37.2  13.8   8.4  27.7  11.9   8.9  22.1  32.7  18.0  14.6  20.3
81   21.0   36.1  28.7  25.2  20.2  28.7  17.4  29.8  35.3   9.7  36.9  22.4  14.8  15.0  24.4
82   18.2   40.1  25.4  21.2  31.2   3.7  29.8  33.9  38.5  11.2  33.9  20.1  23.1  15.9  24.7
Subcontract/        77   22.0   22.7  47.2  33.8  38.3  15.6  45.1  38.5  35.8  34.2  22.3  24.0  39.3  56.7  34.0
I1wnober (%)     78   29.9   17.3  51.0  34.4  38.4  25.9  42.5  52.9  38.3  31.6  14.1  38.7  50.0  38.0  35.9
79   27.9   22.3  61.9  40.6  41.9  19.5  47.4  44.1  42.6  35.7  18.9  33.6  53.0  48.2  38.4
'80   35.8   22.6  60.6  42.6  72.8  19.4  47.0  36.5  43.4  37.7  21.4  59.5  41.4  33.3  41.0
81   29.8   30.7  60.4  35.8  44.0  13.3  47.7  50.9  45.2  27.7  32.6  42.0  21.9  25.8  36.6
82   32.5   25.9  55.1  27.4  43.7  22.6  52.5  50.9  45.8  21.1  30.8  34.0  31.6  22.6  35.4
lbt Fixed Assets!    77   46.3    6.2  39.4  23.1  39.7  41.7  28.2  38.5  50.9  47.4  39.2  28.0  49.2  75.0  29.2
1Urn,Mr (Z       78   51.4    6.0  61.6  34.4  44.2  43.8  25.3  32.8  60.0  49.5  38.9  22.5  39.1  33.5  38.5
79   45.1    7.7  60.6  40.6  54.6  38.2  25.8  39.7  54.5  37.1  37.4  32.7  31.3  84.8  41.7
80   89.1    8.9  52.9  33.2  34.8  33.3  25.5  37.8  54.2  28.6  37.1  27.9  27.0  43.5  37.1
81   47.3   10.1  70.0  33.3  40.9  40.0  22.0  34.5  93.5  29.6  40.1  32.5  38.4  45.2  39.4
82   44.0   11.5  70.1  32.3  47.9  37.0  28.3  40.4  95.8  28.3  34.5  27.6  44.3  43.4  40.2



- 58 -
Attachment I Page 2
Operatirg arki Finarrial Ratios of Selected P.ilic
Sector Cbattcting aixniies, i977,82
----------------am   --------------
TINANIAL RTIOS Yr.    I        II   III    IV    V    VI        VII viii   IX        X    XI   XII   XIII   XIV  14an
Qnwxent Ratio (Tines) 77    1.1    1.2   1.0   1.3   1.4   1.2   1.1   1.3   0.9   1.2   1.0   1.5   1.4   1.1   1.2
78    1.1    1.2   0.9   1.4   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.0   1.1   1.0   1.6   1.3   1.1   1.2
79    1.2    1.9   1.0   1.8   1.1   1.4   1.5   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.0   1.5   1.4   1.0   1.3
80    1.3    1.3   1.5   1.4   1.2   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.3   1.1   1.0   1.4   1.5   1.2   1.3
81    1.3    1.4   1.1   1.3   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.4   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   1.2   1.2
82    1.2    1.4   1.1   1.3   1.2   1.2   1.4   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.1   1.7   1.4   1.0   1.2
WFBTt1btal Reyeniue    77    7.0    3.3  10.8   8.7  11.1   7.0  10.0   9.4   5.7  13.0   4.9   8.5   8.5  41.7  10.7
(%                78    9.8    1.9  12.5   9.2   9.4   7.0  12.1  10.6  23.8  11.3   0.8  11.4  11.6   2.7   9.6
79    6.7    3.4   9.7  18.6   2.0   8.1   5.5   2.9   6.8   7.4   0.5  12.2  12.8  35.2   9.4
80    6.0    3.2   9.4   9.1   4.6   3.9   6.4   6.4   1.6   3.3  (5.9)  5.7  13.5   4.8   5.1
81    4.8    2.1  18.6   5.9   3.4   6.1   8.3  10.1  (21.3)  5.3  (5.1)  6.4   4.3   4.7   3.8
82    4.7    4.0   9.4   4.2  (13.5)  3.9   5.8   4.9  (28.2)  1.1  (7.8) 23.4  16.7   4.1   2.3
lbt Fixed Assets/     77   80.8   10.3  54.1  37.2  52.7  56.3  58.8  47.6  71.1  63.2  100.0  29.2  54.5  81.5  52.9
Equity (%          78   75.3    9.3   8.3  38.0  58.5  57.0  50.0  45.1  81.8  75.8  92.3  26.6  59.0  83.3  54.3
79   61.8    7.8  67.4  42.1  61.0  48.5  43.1  42.9  62.4  70.7  106.5  30.0  45.0  84.0  55.2
80   55.4   1.0.7  48.9  43.1  61.8  48.0  44.1  43.7  75.3  70.4  105.7  31.1  41.8  67.7  53.4
81   57.0   14.2  65.8  46.9  52.0  58.8  38.2  52.7  67.2  69.4  91L5  34.8  59.9  74.3  55.9
82   63.9   13.2  81.8  48.3  46.2  65.2  42.0  54.8  79.3  65.7  83.0  27.7  50.0  90.5  58.0
1IBT/Average Equity   77   12.6    4.5   7.9   9.4   9.1   8.5  11.5   7.1   5.1  11.4   9.8   6.7   5.7  45.5  11.1
78   14.4    2.4   8.2   6.7   7.7   6.5  13.7   9.8  20.0  11.9   1.6   8.3   8.8   4.2   8.9
79    9.2    2.7   4.1  11.4   1.3   8.2   4.9   1.8   4.4   9.1   1.1   7.4   8.6  18.1   6.6
80    7.5    3.0   3.4   6.8   2.2   4.6   5.8   4.7   1.1   5.1  (13.3)  2.6  12.2   4.9   3.6
81    5.8    2.0   6.9   5.4   2.4   7.3   7.5   6.2  (9.4)  9.0  (8.0)  3.9   4.6   5.7   3.5
82    6.9    3.5   4.9   4.6  (7.5)  5.3   4.0   3.3  (1-2.6)  2.1  (12.9) 15.5  12.9   6.7   2.6
Total Debt/Total      77    1.8    0.91   1.4   1.7   1.2   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.3   1.5   2.2   2.3   1.1   2.3   1.6
Equity (tinEas)    78    1.8    0.97  1.6   1.3   1.4   1.3   1.5   1.5   1.5   2.0   2.2   1.2   1.5   1.7   1.5
79    1.7    0.81   1.5   1.5   1.9   1.1   1.2   1.5   0.9   2.5   3.1   1.5   1.2   2.2   1.6
80    1.7    0.99  0.7   1.3   1.9   1.2   1.5   1.5   1.0   2.2   2.8   1.6   1.2   1.3   1.5
81    1.4    0.80   1.2   1.5   1.6   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.3   2.9   2.4   1.4   1.1   1.3   1.7
82    1.5    0.98  1.2   1.4   1.6   1.6   1.5   1.6   1.3   2.8   2.1   1.1   1.3   2.2   1.6



- 59 -
ANNEX 1 1
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year and Quarter                  Cumulative Disbursements ($ million)
1985
December 31, 1984                              0.4
March 31, 1985                                 0.8
Ju ne 30, 1 985                                6.0
1 986
September 30, 1985                            13.1
December 31, 1985                             20.3
March 31, 1986                                30.9
June 30, 1986                                41.5
1987
September 30, 1986                            52.4
December 31, 1986                             63.3
March 31, 1987                                70.5
June 30, 1987                                77.3
1 988
September 30, 1987                            82.4
December 31, 1987                             8 7.5
March 31, 1988                                90. 9
June 30, 1988                                 94.3
1989
September 30, 1988                            96.0
December 31, 1988                             97.7
March 31, 1989                                98. 9
June 30, 1989                                100.0
Disbursement profiles are based on actual experience of DIB under
the first four DIB loans.
Loan Effective Date: October 1, 1984
Closing Date: December 31, 1989



- 60 -                               ANNEX 12
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Budget for the JCDCI Two-Year Work Program
1985                  1986                   Total
US$      LE            US$       LE          US         LE
('000)  ('000)        ('000)   ('000)        ('000)   ('000)
Technical Experts
Architect                       -        15             -        15           -       30
Civil Eng.(Contrg.)           10          -           30          -          40       -
Civil Eng.(Conslg.)             -        30             -        52.5          -      82.5
Qty. Surv.(Contrg.)           60          -            90         -          150       -
Qty. Surv.(Conslg.)             -        45             -        52.5          -      97.5
Legal Advisor                   -        22.5           -        30            -     52.5
Training Advisor               30         -            30         -           60       -
Total                   100       112.5         150       150          250    262.5
Contingencies 1/               18        39.5         42         78           60    117.5
TOTAL                   118       152           192       228          310    380
1/   Assuming physical contingency equivalent to 5 percent of base cost,
international inflation at 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985 and 9
percent in 1986 and domestic inflation of 14 percent in 1984, 13 percent
in 1985 and 12 percent in 1986.



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
EGYPT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1. Construction/Contracting Industry Study, Final Report, July 1981 (in
three volumes)
2. Guidelines for Appraising Contracting Companies
3. Selected Data on Construction Sector
4. Development Industrial Bank
5. Bank Misr
6. Procurement Regulations (Law No.9, 1983)



