LOAN NUMBER 2460 EGT
Loan Agreement
(Construction Industry Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2460 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMPNT, dated   Oethh      9     £   , 1986, between ARAB
REPUBLIC  OF   EGYPT  (hereinafter   called  the   Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WREREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Project will be carried out partly by the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities and partly by
the Participating Banks referred to in Section 1.02 (a) of this
Agreement, with the Borrower's assistance, and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Participating
Banks part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and said
Participating Banks;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and etfect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, and in the
Project Agreement rezferred to in paragraph (b) herein, have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)  "Participating Banks" means Bank Misr and the Develop-
ment Industrial Bank of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Participating Banks of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Participating Banks
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all sched-
ules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and the term "Subsidiary
Loan" means the loan to be provided under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(d) "MHPU"   means  the  Ministry  of   Housing  and  Public
Utilities of the Borrower;
(e)  "JCDCI" means the Joint Committee for the Development
of the Construction Industry established by the Minister of MHPU
for the purposes of coordinating the activities of the Borrower's
agencies concerned with the construction industry and the mea-
sures to be takcn by MHPU towards the implementation of the
recommendations of the Construction Contracting Industry Study
dated July, 1981;
(f) "Eligible Enterprise" mear   an enterprise established
under Egyptian law and concerned with (i) the carrying out of
construction activities; or (ii) the leasing of construction
equipment; or (iii) the manufacture of building materials (other
than cement and steel) or construction equipment; and
(g) "Egyptian pound" and the sign "LE" mean pound in the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.0#, The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred forty-nine thousand three hundred
seventy-seven dollars ($249,377).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commei-ement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For the Interest Period commencing October 1, 1986, the
interest rate shall be 8.23% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.07
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-4.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
the outstanding borrowing of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or       the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08, The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of each Participating Bank, or
aiy other person or persons as such Chairman may designate in
writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking, in respect of Parts A and B (3) of the
Project, any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause MHPU to carry out
Part B (1) and (2) of the Project through JCDCI with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the Participating Banks to perform in accordance with the
provisions of th-a Project Agreement all of their obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Participating Banks to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall relend to the Participating Banks,
on an equal basis, the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Cate-
gories (1) and (4) of the table shown in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, in addition to an amount, proportionate
to such proceeds, of the fee amount allocated under Category (5)
of said table, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Parcicipating Banks under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby:
(i) each Participating Bank shall repay the principal
amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn by it over
a period not exceeding 15 years, including a grace
period not exceeding 3 years and in accordance
with an amortization schedule which shall conform
In relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans
granted by such Participating Bank;
(ii) each Participating Bank shall pay interest at the
rate of 12% per annum on the principal amount of
the Subsidiary loan withdrawn by it and outstand-
ing from time to time;
(iii) the Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Banks
shall undertake, on a quarterly basis, a review of
the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan
and of the sub-loans with a view to determining
whether adjustmew:s thereto should be made in
order to ensure their continued competitiveness
with the terms of foreign exchange credits avail-
able to sub-borrowers from other sources;
(iv) each Participating Bank shall pay to the Borrower
the equivalent in terms of Egyptian pounds o7f the
amount of the commitment charge, pertaining to the
portion of the Subsidiary Loan allocated for such
Participating Bank, and payable by the Borrower on
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agree-
ment; and
(v) for purposes of repayment, the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan shall be the equivalent in
terms of Egyptian pounds of the dollar amount of


﻿- 6 -
the Subsidiary Loan; such equivalent to be deter-
mined, fc- each amount committed by a Participa-
ting Bank under a sub-loan, as of the date of
signature of the contract for such sub-loan, on
the basis of the same rate of exchange used for
its denomination in Egyptian pounds pursuant to
the provision of Section 2.05 (b) of the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) In   order  to assist IPU in the implementation of
Part B (1) and (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to MHPU the proceeds of the Loan allocated under Cate-
gories (2) and (3) of the table shown in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause MRPU to ensure
that the secretariat serving JCDCI and its executive bureau shall
include an adequate number of experienced staff assigned on a
full-time basis to be responsible for monitoring and overseeing
the carrying out of the technical assistance program provided
under Part B (1) and (2) of the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part B (1) and (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MHPU
to employ advisers whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank, such advisers to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause MHPU to furnish
to the Bank, upon the completion of each of the tasks to be
carried out under the acti-on program included in Part B (2) of
the Project, the reports, recommendations and proposals pertain-
ing  to such   task; and   (ii) thereafter, take    all measures


﻿- 7 -
necessary for the implementation of such recommendations and pro-
posals as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 3.04. In order to increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of its construction industry, the Borrower shall en-
sure that its departments and agencies will procure their civil
works under procedures which will ensure the widest possible com-
petition among contractors. -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause MHPU: (i) to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of Part B (1) and (2) of the Project, to identify
the services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose their use in Part B (1) and (2) of the Project; and
(ii) to prepare, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, and to
furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports on.progress in the imple-
mentation of Part B (1) and (2) of the Project.
(b) Upon the award of any contract for services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part B (1) and (2)
of the Project, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause MHPU to maintain
acccounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its resources and expen-
ditures in respect of Part B (1) and (2) of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause MHPU to (i) have the
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 hereof for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external deb. shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or othez legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property
or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose
of financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and secur-
ing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Either of the Participating Banks shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that either of the Partici-
pating Banks will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of either of the Participating Banks or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Participating Banks; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur,
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Participai.ng Banks; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) MHPU has contracted, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02 (b) hereof, advisers to assist in the implementation
of Part B (1) of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Participating Banks, and is legally binding upon
the Participating Banks in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Participating
Banks and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Partici-
pating Banks in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation
or the First Under Secretary for International Finance Sector of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation
International Finance Sector
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable addzess:                       Telex:
Ministry of Planning               927-23348
and International
Cooperation
Cairo


﻿- 11 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /ef    .34
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under          96,700,000         Amounts disbursed
Part A of the                              by the Partici-
Project                                    pating Banks
under sub-loans
for (i) 100%
of foreign ex-
penditures, and
(ii) 60% of local
expenditures for
imported items
procured locally
(2) Advisers'                 2,535,000         100%
services under
Part B (1) of
the Project
(3) Advisers'                   315,623         100%
services under
Part B (2) of
the Project
(4) Advisers'                   200,000         100%
services under
Part B (3) of
the Project
(5) Fee                         249,377         Amount due under
Section 2.04 (a)
of this Agreement
TOTAL        100,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if tne amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase the
efficiency and capacity of the Egyptian construction industry
through financial and technical assistance and institutional
reforms; and (b) to develop the capacity of the Participating
Banks in the appraisal and supervision of projects in the con-
struction sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Credit
The provision of credit to sub-borrowers for financing (i)
the purchase of construction equipment, tools and spare parts and
(ii) the manufacture of building materials (other than cement and
steel) or construction equipment.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
(1) A program for upgrading the management of contracting enter-
prises benefitting from the credit to be provided under Part A of
the Project.
(2) The implementation of an action program, to be formulated
by JCDCI with the assistance of advisers, for reforms in the
contractual, financial and operational aspects affecting the
construction industry.
(3) Assistance to the Participating Banks for the purpose of
developing their capacity in the appraisal and follow up of
operations financed by them in the construction sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1991
through   October 1, 2005                  3,335,000
On April 1, 2006                                3,285,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but not                      0.30
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                        0.55
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before                     1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


