L OR246O EGT
Project Agreement
(Construction Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK MISR
and
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Dated                                 , 1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2460 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     014e0   z       .5      , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANK MISR and DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL
BANK (hereinafter called the Participating Banks).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Arab Republic or Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Participating Banks agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Participating Banks, the equivalent
of $96,900,000 from the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Participating
Banks on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Participating Banks, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Bank out of the proceeds of the Subsidairy Loan
relent to them under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "free-
limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan provided in an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000;


﻿- 2 -
(b)   "sub-borrower" means an Eligible Enterprise, as such
term is defined in Section 1.02 (f) of the Loan Agreement, to
which a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a
sub-loan; and
(c) "sub-project" means a project utilizing the proceeds of
a sub-loan and involving the purchase by an Eligible Enterprise
of construction equipment whether for its own use or for leasing
purposes, or the manufacture by such Eligible Enterprise of
building materials (other than cement or steel) or of construc-
tion equipment.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section   2.01.  The   Participating  Banks   declare  their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, shall carry
out Parts A and B (3) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
economic, financial and investment standards.
Section 2.02. (a) Within the limitation on withdrawals
stated in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement, each
Participating Bank, acting on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement and to the provisions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, shall be entitled to withdraw from the
Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
for amounts to be paid) by such Participating Bank on account of
a withdrawal made by a sub-borrower under a sub-loan to meet the
cost of goods required for a sub-project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
except as the Bank may otherwise agree; that no sub-loan or
sub-loans shall be provided to a single sub-borrower in an amount
exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal
shall be made on account of: (i) expenditures before the date of
this Agreement; or (ii) expenditures by a sub-borrower in respect
of a sub-loan if such expenditures shall have been made more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) or (b) of this Agreement, as
the case may be.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Participating
Bank concerned shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description and an
appraisal, to be made in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank, of the sub-project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by a Participating Bank for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-
limit sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the
sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the
terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including the schedule on
amortization thereof.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Participating Banks shall
otherwise agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1989.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Bank and the Participating
Banks may otherwise agree, the Participating Banks shall charge
interest at a rate of not less than 15% per annum on the princi-
pal amount of any sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
(b) The Participating Banks, the Borrower and the Bank
shall determine in the context of the review to be undertaken
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of the Loan Agreement whether
adjustments should be made to the terms and conditions applicable
to the sub-loans.
(c) The Participating Banks shall (i) calculate the finan-
cial and economic rates of return for any sub-project for the
manufacture of building materials or construction equipment esti-
mated to cost LE 800,000 or more or for the carrying out of which
a sub-loan is proposed in an amount equivalent to $650,000 or
more, and (ii) require for the provision of a sub-loan for the
carrying out of such sub-project that it shall have an economic
rate of return of not less than 12% and a financial rate of


﻿-4-
return at least equal to the interest rate which would be
applicable to such sub-loan.
Section 2.05. (a) The amortization schedule applicable to
each sub-loan shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Participating Banks shall otherwise
agree, shall provide for approximately equal semiannual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approx-
imately equal semiannual, or more frequent, payments of princi-
pal.
(b) When repayment of a sub-loan is made in Egyptian
pounds, the principal amount of such sub-loan shall be the
equivalent in terms of Egyptian pounds of the dollar amount of
the sub-loan; such equivalent to be determined as of the date of
signature of the sub-loan contract, on the basis of the highest
rate of exchange for the dollar in terms of Egyptian pounds that
is sanctioned by the Central Bank of the Borrower and used by its
commercial banks for the purpose of effecting foreign payments.
(c) Each Participating Bank shall transmit to the Bank, for
its prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made
in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan provided
by such Participating Bank.
Section 2.06. Unless the Bank, the Borrower and the
Participating Banks shall otherwise agree, if a sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be repaid to a Participating Bank in advance
of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be sold,
transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by such
Participating Bank, such Participating Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower and shall repay to the Borrower on the next follow-
ing interest payment date the amount withdrawn from the Loan
Account in respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Borrower.
Section 2.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, each
Participati.g Bank shall provide any sub-loan on terms whereby
such Participating Bank shall obtain, by written contract with
the sub-borrower or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and
the Participating Bank, including the right of the Participating
Bank to: (i) require the sub-borrower to carry out and operate
the sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards


﻿-5-
and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if
the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the sub-project, the opera-
tion thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require the sub-borrower to take out and maintain such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice and that, without any limitation
upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the sub--loan to ti.e place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usuable by the sub-borrower to replace or repair
such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Participating Bank shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing, to the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of the sub-borrower and the benefits to be derived from the
sub-project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the sub-
borrower to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure
by such sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its agree-
ment with the Participating Bank.
Section 2.08. (a) Each Participating Bank shall exercise its
rights in relation to each sub-borrower in such manner as to (i)
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and such Partici-
pating Bank, (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
(b) Each Participating Bank shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Participating Banks shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. In order to assist the Participating Banks in
the implementation of Part B (3) of the Project, the Participat-
ing Banks shall contract the services of advisers whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, such advisers to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants


﻿- 6 -
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.10. (a) Each Participating Bank shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, the Project, the sub-projects,
the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Participating Banks shall prepare and
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the sub-projects, their costs
and the benefits derived and to be derived from them, the per-
formance by the Participating Banks and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.11. In order to ensure adequate utilization by
Eligible Enterprises in the private sector of the Borrower of
the credit facility provided under Part A of the Project, the
Participating Banks shall introduce during the first year of
Project implementation, procedures designed to reach an adequate
number of such Eligible Enterprises and to inform them about
their eligibility for such credit.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The Participating Banks shall each maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and finan-
cial conditions.
Section 3.02. (a) The Participating Banks shall each estab-
lish and maintain separate accounts for the Project.
(b) Each Participating Bank shall: (i) have its accounts
(including the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section) and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿-7-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; -- . (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning cne accounts and financial statements of the Partici-
pating Bank and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Participating Banks thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Partici-
pating Banks thereof.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank fo7
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI).
For Bank Misr:
Banque Misr
151 Mohammed Farid Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable Address:                     Telex:
BANSR                             92242 UN
Cairo
For Development Industrial Bank:
Development Industrial Bank
110 Galaa Street
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:                Telex:
DEVBANK                      2643 UN
Cairo
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of a Participating Bank, or by such Partici-
pating Bank on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement,
may be taken or executed by the Chairman of such Participating
Bank or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall desig-
nate in writing, and the Participating Bank shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By            PJ7
. Regiona Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANK MISR
uthorized Representative
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
BAthorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the international Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


