RESTRICTED
ItE (LA 0)5)t                    Report No. P-820
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its afRliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALI
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 20, 1970



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERN1.ENT OF MALI
FOR A HIGHWRAY PROJECT
1.     I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a-proposed
credit in a amount in various currencies equivalent to US$ 7.7 million
to the Government of M4ali, to assist in financing a highway project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The proposed project emerged from a road transport survey carried
out in 1967-68 under UNDP financing with the Bank as Executing Agency.
3.     Negotiations of the proposed credit were completed on May 1, 1970
with a delegation of the Government, led by Mr. Konate, President Direc-
tor General of the Mali Development Bank.
4.     The Association has mado one credit to Mali.  Its status as of
May 11, 1970 is summarized below:
Credit                                                Amount (US$ Million)
Number     Year     Borrower             Purpose      IDA     Undisbursed
95 MLI     1966     Republic of Mali     Railways     9.1        3.6
5.     Mali's performance under the railway credit (95 MULI) has not been
fully satisfactory; project execution has lagged, because of delays in
preparation of suitable bidding documents, unsatisfactory cost estimates
and analysis of bids by consultants, as well as delays in procurement.
The financial position of the railway has remained precarious mainly
because traffic has not grown as rapidly as was expected. However, the
Government and the Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali have recently taken
a number of corrective steps. The works are now progressing satisfac-
torily and the financial situation has improved as a result of increases
in passenger fares and freight rates. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1971.
6.     No further proposals for IDA credits are expected to be presented
to the Executive Directors in the present fiscal year. Projects for
rice growing and for telecommunications are being prepared.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.     Borrower:         Republic of Mali.
Amount:           US$ 7.7 million equivalent.
Purpose:          A Four-Year Highway Maintenance and Feeder Road
Betterment Program, together with a feasibility
study and detailed engineering for the recon- -
struction and strengthening of two trunk roads.



-2 -
Amortization:     In 50 years including a 10-year period of grace
through semi-annual installments of 1/2 of 1%
from December 1, 1980 through June 1, 1990 and
1 1/2% from December 1, 1990 through June 1, 2020.
Service:          3/4 of 1% per annum.
Estimated
economic return:  15 - 20% on the maintenance and betterment program.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.     A report entitled "Republic of-Mlali - Appraisal of Highway Main-
tenance Project" (PTR-52) is attached.
9.     Transport plays a vital role in landlocked Mali. Road transport
accounts for more than 40% of total freight carried and almost 75% of
total passenger traffic. The whole road-network comprises about 13,000
kilometers of roads and tracks, 2,500 km. or 20% of which provide all-
weather service. Except for recently paved roads, the condition of
the network is poor. There is a serious lack of secondary and tertiary
roads, and many of the existing ones are inadequately maintained, which
is hindering agricultural production in existing farming areas and the
opening up of new areas.
10.    The proposed project consists of:
1) A four-year highway maintenance and feeder road betterment
program including:
a) the training of maintenance staff;
b) the reorganization of the Equipment Department of
the Directorate;
c) the renovation and expansion of maintenance workshops;
d) the overhaul and repair of existing salvageable
highway maintenance equipment;
e) the purchase of highway maintenance equipment and
spare parts; and
f)  the betterment of about 1,450 km. of agricultural
feeder roads.
2)  Consultantst services for a feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the reconstruction and strengthening of about
400 km. of trunk roads.
11.    Total capital expenditures for the project amount to US$ 9.3 million,
of which US$ 7.7 million, representing the foreign exchange costs of
the project, would be financed out of the proposed credit.
12.    The Government of Mali will, in addition to financing the balance
of the capital costs, increase its highway maintenance expenditures from



-3-
US$ 1.7 million equivalent in 1971 to US$ 2.5 million in 1974 by allo-
cating the revenues of the Road Fund to the financing of highway main-
tenance expenditures.
13.    The project will be implemented by the National Directorate of
Public Works with the assistance of two teams of experts, one provided
by the International Labor Office (ILO) and the other by consultants.
14.    Contracts over US$10 000 for the procurement of equi ment andd ma-
terial will be awarded on tAe basis of international competitive binddig.
Some spare parts and equipment for overhaul and repair will alreadr
have been ordered to enable the Directorate to carry out a minimum
level of maintenance pending the arrival of the new equipment to be
financed under the project. Retroactive financing of these purchases
amounting to a maximum of US$ 400,000 would therefore be provided.
15.    The economic benefits of the maintenance and the betterment pro-
gram will result from road userst savings. The economic rate of return
over the estimated average 8-year economic life of investments would
be about 20%, with benefits gradually accruing during the implementa-
tion of the program and reaching their full level in the fourth year.
On more conservative estimates of traffic growth, the return would be 15%.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Mali and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and the draft Resolution approving the proposed Credit are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.    The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the general pattern
for projects of this kind, including a covenant designed to ensure the
availability of local funds for highway maintenance when and as needed
(Section 4.06 (c)).
PART V - TIHE ECONOMY
18.    A report on "The Economic Development in M4ali" is being circulated
separately.
19.    Following independence, Mali's economic development was severely
hampered by neglect of the agricultural sector, restrictions on private
trade, strict price controls at all levels, and the creation of a
considerable number of unsuccessful state enterprises. While little
progress was achieved, large external debts were-contracted, which
resulted in serious balance of payments problems. In November 1968;
the Military seized control and embarked on a more pragmatic course.
The new Government improved incentives for agricultural production, par-
ticularly by raising farm prices, liberalized restrictions on private
trade, thus permitting private traders to play a greater rolb, effected
some improvements in state enterprises and took steps to reschedule



-4 -
the external debt. There are signs that pressure on the balance of
payments are somewhat diminishing. The Government is now further re-
orienting public investments to the more directly productive sectors
of the economy. Over the medium term it should be possible to achieve
a rate of growth of 3-4 per cent and a somewhat more rapid increase in
exports. Given Mali's low level of per capita income, heavy external
debt, and modest growth prospects over the-medium term, foreign aid
will have to be made on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREmEENT
20.    I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of IDA.
PART VII - RBCOMMENDATION
21. -I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
N4ay 20, 1970



