- ecumm of
The World Bank
FM OFFICLAL USE ONLY
RIpwt NQ P-5468-HA
HUORANDUZ4 AND RECOIINDATION
0r THE
INTEATIONL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCMION
TO Tim
EXCUTIVE bIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT -OF
$DR 19.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC 3F HAITI
FOR A
FOITRY AND ENVIROMETAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Septaub.r 3. 1991
is doumet bass resticted ditrbutio snd may be used by  cipiteat OOly in the petrformnce of
dteim offcl duties. Its contens may not otherwise be disclosed wit    World Bank authWoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEE1E
Currency Unit   Gourde (G)
Exchange Rate Effective May 1991
US$1.00 - G 5.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BME         -     Bureau des Mines et de 1'Energie
CG          -     Consultative Group
CGCED       -     Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
CEM         -     Country Economic Memorandum
DRN         -     Direction des Ressources Naturelles (MARNDR)
ERC         -     Economic Recovery Credit
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP         -     Gross National Product
HA          -     Hectare
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IFC         -     International rinance Corporation
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MARNDR      -     Minist6re de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles
et du D6veloppement Rural
MIGA        -     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGO         -     Non-Governmental Organization
PPF         -     Project Preparation Facility
SAF         -     Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR         -     Special Drawing Right
TA          -     Technical Assistance Credit
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -     U.S. Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AT
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A,
FORESIRY AND ENmmRONN3NTaL PRO IECTION PROWICT
Credit and Proicot -SuMMar
Borrowerz         Government of Haiti
egcficiarisgs    Farmers within and in the surrounding buffer zones of
national parks and forestas urban consumers of wood-based
fuels; general population through the strengthening of the
natural resource protection mechanisms
#B.UIts           SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent)
Z11mat            Standard, with 40 years maturity
onleain4 .Terms: Not applicable
nijans RI Plamt  Government                USS 2.9 million
IDA                     USS26.2. million
TOTAL                   USS29.0 million
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Arsaisal   9307-HA
Revorts
Kant              IBRD No. 22561
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in it e perforvance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bark autb'irzation.



EMORANDUM AND RECOMMOnAsTIO  OF THE PRES IOT
OF TME ZNTBRNATIONAL DEVELOPNKNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE E%ECUTIVE DIRECTORS
OX A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TEE REPUBLIC OP HAITI
tOR A FORZSCRY AnD EN!IRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
1.          The following memorandum, and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to Haiti for SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent)
is submitted for approval. Part I of the document discusses Haiti's
development problems and pro3pects, key priority areas for economic reform and
the Bank Group's Assistance Strategy. It draws upon Report No. 9523-HA,
"Haiti - Restoration of Growth and Development" dated May 20, 1991. Part 11
of the document describes the proposed project.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
1.1.        Haiti is a small, densely populated, predominantly rural, and open
economy. its 6.4 million inhabitants occupy 28,000 square kilometers in the
western end of the Island of Hispaniola, and are among the poorest in the
world, with a per capita GNP of US$400 (1989). About 25%-30% of the labor
force is unemployed. Three-quarters of tha population live in the rural
areas, and depend on agriculture, the output of which has increased little
since the early 1970s. Physical production per capita has fallen steadily as
relentless population pressure has forced peasants to cultivate ever more
marginal hillside land. A shortage of cultivable land, coupled with
insecurity of tenure and the demand for wood for energy, has generated an
unrelenting process of deforestation and soil erosion. In recent decades,
output and employment have shifted toward urban activity. Agriculture now
accounts for only one third of GDP compared with one half in the early 1950s.
Coffee remains the largest agricultural export, accounting for about 17.5 of
total exports in 1989. This is considerably less than manufacturing exports
(mostly export assembly) which accounted for about 69% of total exports in
1989.
1.2.        Between 1980-85, Haiti pursued policies that led to an inefficient
and inequitable economic system. The system was based on inefficient fiscal
and trade regimes, as well as on restrictive practices such as trade
monopolies and discriminatory administration of investment promotion schemes.
Large portions of public revenues accruing from that system, and public
borrowing, were deployed to administer the system ai..n to undertake capital
expenditures that were uneconomic or unaccounted for, rather than to expand
the country's productive capacity or provide essential public services. The
economic distortions and the financial drain inherent in Haiti's policies from
1980-85 led to significant deterioration of the country's income, living
standards anM finances.
1.3.        As a result, the confidence of the Haitian peopla, the private
sector and the international donor community eroded. Beginning in 1984, there
was intermittent givil unrest. The export assembly sector, which had been
vibrant in the 1970's, stagnated. Donors expressed concern over inappropriate



-2-
investments, the lack of overall investment priorities and the poor policies
in agriculture and industry. As the Government took no action to address
these concerns, foreign aid declined from 7% to 5% of GDP from 1983-85.
Sevaral donors withdrew their assistance from the public sector and directed
it instead toward non-governmental organizations. By late 1985, civil unrest
had become widespread and the economic deterioration had worsened. By early
1986, the situation had become unsustainable and on February 7, 1986, the
Duvalierist regime collapsed and a National Government Council (CNG) came to
power with a pledge to hold eloctions and promote economic recovery.
Adiustmnt P_ ocss
1.4.        The  cgnomie Regovegy Proargm 19*6-87. To reform the economic
system the CNG, with assistance from IDA and the IMF, instituted a program of
economic policies between March 1986 and November 1987 which focussed on the
reform of the tax system, trade regime, public expenditure, public
enterprise, the private sector role in the economy, industrial incentives,
and agricultural pricing. Total expenditure and taxes were cut by about 2% of
GDP, and the expenditures reallocated such that education and health spending
were increased by over 20% in real terms. Taxes on basic food item were
reduced, helping to lower prices and raise private consumption among the low-
income population. Income taxes were simplified, top marginal rates lowered
and measures to strengthen tax collection initiated. The piblic investment
program was pruned and concentrated on completion of priority ongoing projects
while the public sector's debt to the domestic banking system was reduced.
Trade monopolLes, both public and private were dismantled. Of the five public
industrial firms, two which were uneconomic were closed. In a major reform of
the trade regime, all but seven of the 111 quantitative restrictions on
imports were eliminated. The remaining seven products, representing less than
20% of imports, became subject to import licensing without formal ceilings.
rurther, specific tariffs were all replaced by ad valorem ones, and the
general level of protection was reduced drastically. The export tax on coffee
was phased out wad other agricultural export taxes were abrogated.
1.5.        The reform measures began to stabilize and restructure the economy
during 1986-87. Bconomic growth in 1986-87 averaged about 0.6% per year. In
large part, economic growth in those years was marred by the collapse of
coffee export volumes and prices. In mid-1987, a series of political crises
erupted. Until the advent of the current Government, economic developments in
Haiti were characterized by work stoppages, uncertainties for private
investors, increased contraband activity, shortfalls in public revenues,
curtailment of external assistance, accumulation of external payments arrears,
and pervasive economic deterioration. In 1989, although the service sectors
improved their economic performance, their growth was not sufficient to offset
the decline in value added in agriculture for a third consecutive year.
Investment activities also declined. Consumer prices rose by slightly over
10% in 1989. At the same time the premium on the U.S. dollar in the parallel
market rose from about 20% in September 1988 to over 35% in September 1989.



-3-
Table 1: HAITI - BASIC XCONOMIC XNDICATORS
Averaae growth Rates t% per vear)
1980-85    1986-87    1988-f9       1990
Bst       Prelim
Real Gross Domestic Product at
Market Price                      -0.9         0.6       -1.5       -3.0
Agriculture                    -1.3         1.1       -1.9       n.a.
Industry                       -2.5        -2.1        0.5       n.a.
Services                       -0.8         2.8       -0.6       n.a.
Real GNP per Capita at
Market Prices                     -2.6        -0.4       -3.4       n.a.
Private Real Consumption
per Capita                        -3.1         2.4       -3.9       n.a.
Export Volume                        -1.3        -7.2       -3.8       n.a.
Import Volume                        -2.9        -3.8      -10.4       n.a.
Consumer Price Index (Inflation)       8.3        2.0       10.2       25.2
1.6.        Thg Stabilization Proaram of Sentember. 1989.  In order to correct
the macroeconomic imbalances, the 6overnment of General Avril, which came to
office in April, 1989 (the fourth since the departure of Jean-Claude Duvalier
in 1986), adopted an economic program which formed the basis of a 15-month
standby arrangement with the IMP. On September 18, 1989, after Haiti cleared
its arrears to the IMP, a Stand-by Arrangement for SDR 21 million was approved
to sustain the program. The objective of the program was to reduce
inflationary pressures, strengthen the balance of payments and help reverse
the decline in investment and economic activities. Specifically, the program
called for the reduction of domestic financing of the public sector deficit
from 2.4% to 0.6 GDP in FY90, the expansion of the coverage of the value added
tax and an increase of 30% in customs valuation. The Government introduced
new controls on public enterprises, including their wage bills, and raised
wheat flour and millfeed prices. overall, the public sector deficit was
expected to be reduced to 4.5% of GDP in FY89/90. The Government authorized
conmercial banks and exchange houses to operate freely in the parallel market
and reduced the surrender requirement on export receipts at the official
exchange rate from SO% to 40%. In addition, commercial banks were authorized
to accept deposits in foreign currency.
1 7.        Unfortunately the IMF Stand-by program could not be maintained
because of continued fiscal deterioration brought on by the intermittent civil
unrest and the attendant increased public spending by the transition
Government, which took office in March 1990, weak revenue growth, and
increased Central Bank deficit financing. Political uncertainty surrounding
the electoral process at that time and the inability of the transition
Government to reverse existing policies led to an unsatisfactory fiscal
situation.



-4-
7h Reform Proaram of 1991 and the Medium-Term Strategic Framework
1.3.        The freely elected Government of PresAdent Ariatide, which came to
office in February 1991, plans to move Haiti towards sustained social and
economic progress. This calls for maintaining a stable macroe onomic
environment and for investing in human resource development, infrastructure
and institution b ilding. To help stabilize the macroeconomic situation, the
Government has begun to elaborate a comprehensive medium-term program for
economic recovery which entails positive growth in real GOP, reduction in
inflation and improvement in the balance of payments to rebuild the Central
Bank's resrves. The program, which is being prepared with IMF asistance,
will include a major overhaul of the tax system and & restructuring of the
finances of the public enterprises. The Government has also been assisted In
its formulation of the program through recent World Bank documents: the
Economic Memorandum dated May 20, 1991 (Report No. 9523-MA); and the
Agricultural Sector Review dated April 30, 1991 (Report No. 9357-HA).
Following completion of the preparation of the program, the Government plans
to eek implementation assistance in the form of adjustment loans (or grants)
from the bilateral and multilateral donors, including the World Bank and IMF
(under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility).
1.9.        Specific measures have already been undertaken by the Government
to improve its fiscal revenues, counter the contraband activity, promote
tourism, and encourage the private sector. import duties have been reduced on
rice, pork, iron, tin sheets and tools. There are no price controls, but the
Government did intervene to control the prices of some essential items during
March-April 1991. This was for a short duration as hoarding and speculation
drove up the prices of some essential items. The import licensing system is
now flexible and even cement can be imported freely. The Government has
strengthened the Customs Administration by tightening up control over ports,
changing custom officials, and introducing new rules, which has resulted in
increasing revenues and lowering of contraband activity. A small bureau of
tourism has been established and negotiations with tourist agencies/shipping
lines are in incubation. Steps have been taken to eliminate unjustified
expenditures and to reduce excess employment in the ministries and iablic
enterprises. It is estimated that over 8,000 jobs have been eliminated so
far.
1.10.       While these measures are necessary to put Haiti on the path to
sustained economic growth, some of them, particularly elimination of public
sector jobs within the Haitian context of wide-spread unemployment and under-
employment, carry the risk of social unrest. To mitigate this risk, these
actions need to be taken in tandem with measures to increase opportunities for
alternative sources of employment in the private sector as well as to expand
the coverage of the social safety net. In addition, the Government is
intensifying its dialogue with all elements of Haitian society to help prepare
them for the additional steps that will be needed to revitalize the Haitian
economy.



-5s
flank 2rou2 gnerat ions
1.11.       IDA played an important role in the design and implementation of
Haiti's 1986-87 economic recovery program and in the mobilization of the
financial resources needed to finance economic and social development.
Successive Governments, following the fall of the Duvalier regime have
utilized IDA's economic analysis in designing their economic development
programs. IDA has supported these programs through a series of operations.
Until 1985, the Bank Group financed projects in transportation (7), power (4),
education (4), water supply (1), rural development (2), agriculture (2),
industrial credit (1) and urban development (1). IFC made one investment.
Haiti has signed the MIGA convention, but has not yet ratified it or
subscribed to any shares. From FY86 through FY91, IDA financed 9 projects as
shown in Table 2.
Table 2:  HAITI - DISTRIBUTION  F LgENDING Pt86-21
(USS million)
sector                              Amount         I         No. o£
Projects
Industry and Finance                 11.4          6.7           1
Infrastructure and Energy
Transport                      20.0         11.7           1
Power                          24.0         14.1           1
Water Supply                   20.0         11.7           1
Human Resources
Poverty Alleviation            11.3          6.6           1
Education                      12.6          7.4           1
Health                         28.2         16.5           1
Adjustment Operation (ERC)           40.0         23.5           1
Public Sector Management (TAC)       A30           1.7          _
170.5       100.0           9
1.12.       The quick disbursing Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and a
Technical Assistance Credit (TAC), both approved in 1987, supported the
adjustment program . The TAC financed ;he strengthening of the Government's
capacity to implement the ERC, as well as studies to determine ways tu provide
support for the private sector firms affected by trade reforms implemented
under the ERC, and to develop a plan to deal with Haiti's environmental
problems. The environmental study, which has been completed, provides a
comprehensive review of the nature and extent of land degradation in Haiti as
well as a range of possible economic, social and institutional policy
interventions and investment programs that might be appropriate for addressing
the situation. The study's findings have been utilized in the preparation of
the proposed project. Also, the study on private sector firms provided the
basis for an Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (Credit 2071-HA
approved in December 1989). The programs supported by IDA under the ERC, as



- 6 -
well as by the IMF under a SAF were being successfully implemented until the
onset of political and social unrest in tho second half of 1987. The unrest,
together with the drop of external financial assistance disrupted the
financing plan underpinning the ERC and made it impossible for Haiti to
satisfactorily meet the conditions of release of the second tranche and the
second year of the IMF's SAF. Following consultations with the authorities,
the release of the second tranche of ERC was canceled at the end of
September 1988.
1.13.       Among the recent IDA investment operations have been three Credits
in the infrastructure and energy sectors aimed at expanding coverage,
enhancing quality of service, strengthening sector institutions, and expanding
access to disadvantaged groups. The three operations in the human resource
sector are aimed at poverty alleviation, reforming primary education,
implementing a basic health delivery model, and supporting national TB and
AIDS control programs. The Economic and Social Fund would directly support
poverty alleviation efforts by responding flexibly and efficiently and in a
decentralized manner to the basic needs of the nation's poor, through NGOs,
cooperatives, community groups and other grass roots organisations. IDA
intervention in the education sector has been instrumental in eliminating the
differential between male and female enrollment at the lower primary levels,
while IDA inte,.vention in the health sector is expected to expand and
rationalize health coverage and strengthen maternal and child health. The
operation for industrial restructuring and development is providing financial
and technical assistance to improve marketing strategies and to upgrade
product quality and production facilities of industrial firms. It also
includes technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of
sector institutions and the Central Bank, to strengthen customs administration
and to support the improvement of the industrial and the financial regulatory
framework. Overall, an important cross-sectoral objective of IDA assistance
to Haiti is to support the training of Haitian nationals to complement direct
IDA interventions in support of human resource development, which remains one
of the key developmental constraints in Haiti. In previous years, lack of
counterpart funds and high turnover of key management staff, because of
political instability, have posed implementation risks to IDA-financed
projects. The issue of counterpart funding is expected to be addressed
through improved fiscal management and increased donor support and it is hoped
that the advent of democracy in Haiti would help arrest the high turnover
rates.
Bank Groui Strateov and Future Operations
1.14.       Given that the Government is still in the process of formulating
its reform program, IDA assistance strategy would continue to be implemented
in phases, in line with our experience with, and the performance of the
Government. The movement from one phase to another would be determined on the
basis of the Government's meeting performance criteria. Until the preparation
of Goveranent's reform policies is complete, IDA would continue the on-going
program aimed ats (i) alleviating pcverty and supporting human resource
development through the provision, with participation of non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), of basic services which had been adversely affected by
the decline in external assistance and the attendant cut in Government



-7-
investmnt programs; (ii) providing for the rehabilitation of infrastructure
facilities to arrest the continued decline in the productive base and a
further deterioration of physical facilities; and (iii) assistLng in the
preparation and adoptlon of a comprehenaLve approach to address Haiti's
environmental problems. The proposed project would address the environment
objective of our strategy, while a roads maLntenance project under prep ratlon
would support the rehabllitation of tho road network. As LndLeated above, IDA
assistanea Ln support of poverty alloviation is ongoing (para. 1.13).
1.15.       At the same time IDA and tho IMF ar. assistLng the Arlstlde
Government in designLng lts economlc reform program. If the Governmant adopts
a comprehenslve program and seek. the support of the IFl and IDA for its
financing and implementation, we would be prepared to expand our prop.sed
assistance to include quick dliburslng policy-based lending. In that case,
while we would contlnue to accord a high prlorlty to poverty allevlation, we
would anticlpate the flnancing of a trugtugral Adiuatment Credit to assist the
Government in implementing policy reform aimed at: public enterprise reform;
improvlng the system of incentives for private sector investment; improving
revenue mobilization and expenditure programing; and removing the remaining
distortions in the trade regime. In addition, as the Aristide Government
demonstrates the willlngness and capabillty to expand lts investment program
and deal with policy and institutional iLsues at the sectoral level, IDA would
support efforts to increase the productive baie by flnancing additional
projects in infrastructure, agriculture and private sector development. Such
projects (some for whlch preparatory activities are underway) might Lnclude:
(i)     aural Development. An Agrlcultural Productlon and Land
Dhvelopment Project aimed at improving agriculture and
livestock production in the northern plains through
increasing productivity levels of subsiLtence farmers,
improving the provision of agriculture support services
through better coordination wlth NGO0, developing irrigation
and roads infrastructure and making vacant publlc lands
available to landless farmers;
(iiL)     Inrastructur2 Devm lopment.  A Sixth Power Project to
increase power generation and distribution capacity to meet
projected demand required to assure economic growth and
continue the institutional strengthening of the power
company; and
(LiL)      Prlvate Sector DeveWooMent. A Productive Sector Credit
Project to provide credit and technical asesistance to
export-orlented and efflcient Lmport substitution
enterprises and to provide technical assistance to
strengthen flnancial sector institutions.
1.16.       Our economic dialogue in Halti had been hampered ln the last three
years by frequent changes in Government whict. have resulted in high turnover
among the Haltian economic management team. However, a close economic
dialogue has developed with the current Government Ln the process of
preparation of the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and the Agricultural



Soctor Review. Our *conomic and sector work over the next several years would
be directed toward assisting the new Government in: (i) finalizing its
economic reform program; (ii) addressing adjustment issues; and
(iii) undertaking studies that would deepen our sector knowledge as the basis
for invsctment operations.
1.17.       Cooneration with the IMF.  IDA and the IMF worked closely together
in the design and implementation of the 1987 Economic Recovery Program which
was jointly supported by an IDA Credit and an IMF SAF. There has been cross
mission support. IDA staff participated in the 1989 IMF Article IV
consultation mission and IMF staff participated in the IDA mission that
prepared the CEM issued in May 1991. Considerable effort has been made to
comment on each other's work and to use a common database in the preparation
of our respective report. IDA staff have been involved in the on-going
assistance to the Government in preparing the reform program.
1.18.       Aid Coordination and Cofinancina.  Many public and private aid
agencies, including non-governmental organizations (NGOs), are active in
Haiti. Among the most important are the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the
Wrench Cailse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the German
Xreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the GovernmLnt of Japan, the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), and the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP). Donors have traditionally been active in addressing problems
throughout most sectors in Haiti, with projects ranging from health. education
and water supply, to balance of payments support, institution building and
technical assistance. France, Germany and Switzerland have also co-financed
components of IDA operations, including technical assistance. However, during
the politically unstable period following the fall of the Duvalier regime in
1986, many bilateral agencies cut back their official assistance or channelled
it mainly for humanitarian assistance through Private Voluntary Orgat.&zations
and NGOs.
1.19.       The Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
(COCED) chaired by the World Bank, provides a framework for coordination among
donors active in Haiti. A Subgroup meeting was held in Paris in July 1991
chaired by the World Bank. The main documents for the meeting were a
Government Policy Statement, the Country Economic Memorandum, the Agriculture
Sector Review and a Project List which the Government had prepared with IDA
assistance. At the meeting, donors expressed support for the measures and
actions that the Government had taken to restore fiscal discipline, and
improve the efficiency of public administration. Donors also noted the
progress that was being made toward reaching an agreement with the IMF on a
stand-by arrangement and encouraged the Government to proceed with the
preparation of a medium-term adjustment program that could be supported by
bilateral and multilateral donors (including the World Bank and IMF). Donors
participating in the meeting indicated a readiness to consider financial
assistance in amounts that should fully meet Haiti's external financing
requirements for FY91/92. However, a significant part of the indicated
assistance would be contingent on the Government preparing a comprehensive
economic reform program. The Project List should serve as a useful guide in
channelling the portion of the assistance that would be earmarked for



-9-
investment projects. Also as part of our country dialogue, we would discuss
th Government' plans for absorbing the expected substantial inflows.
1.20.       Suuary Agssment.  The Government of President Aristide has just
completed its first six months in office and has ohown a strong commitment to
tackling Haiti's long-term development constraints, as indicated by measures
it has already taken to strengthen domestic resource mobilization, lower
public sector employment, improve the management of public enterprises and
address some of the long-standing issues in the external sector, including
exchange rate. Also, considerable progress has been made in its discussion
with the IMF, and a stand-by arrangement is expected to be finalized shortly.
The preparation of comprehensive reform program and an agreement with the IMF
are critical since they will enable the Government to obtain the full scope of
external assistance indicated at the Subgroup meeting. The democratic process
in Haiti would appear to be off to good start, but a modus operandi between
the various branches of Government remains to be fully worked out. An
improvement lr this regard is important so that delays in obtaining the
requisite approvals for the Government's reform program and various
development initiatives do not become a severe economic development
bottleneck.  Furthermore, specific plans would need to be made for absorbing
the substantial amount of assistance that was indicated by the donors at the
Subgroup meeting.
XI. TH3 iRZ5SZ
2.1.        Sector Barkcround.  The pressures to expand crop cultivation and
to provide woodfuel have depleted Haiti's once abundant forests to a remnant.
Both the use of land and the consumption of woodfuel by far exceed sustainable
levels. Deforestation and inappropriate land use have caused soil erosion,
depletion of water resources, loss of soil fertility, floods and accelerated
siltation in dams and irrigation canals.  In addition, the overuse of the
natural resources threatens extinction of ecosystems and along with them
animal and plant species that are unique to the island of Hispaniola.
2.2.        Although Haiti has an impressive number of laws and regulations to
protect natural resources, they are inconsistent and unenforceable. The
Ministry of Agr`culture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) has
the principal mandate to implement natural resource policies and legislation,
but neither has the financial nor human means to carry out its regulatory and
developmental role. Environmental degradation is integrally linked with rural
poverty, and the deeply rooted developmental problems this presents for Haiti.
Central among such problems has been the absence of a stable Government
administration with the resultant lack of services, law and order, clear
responsibilities and popular support. The result has been the absence of
technological progress in agriculture and misguided trade, tax and pricing
policies in the early 19805 that favored production of erosion-prone, annually
cultivated crops, and disincentives for production of environmentally sound
tree crops such as coffee and fruits. There are also virtually intractable
problems concerning land ownership and distribution. This has contributed to
regional imbalances which have resulted in underutilization of high potential
areas in the irrigated plains and overuse of marginal areas, mainly in the



- 10 -
mountins. The correction of the causes for Haiti's development problems will
take many years of sustained external support, political commitment and
stabilLty. Coordination between bilateral and multilateral agencies will be
essential to bring about lasting benefits in the context of the very limited
human capital, weak institutions and the seriously depleted natural resource
base on whiLh Haiti must build its future. Current trends of land use in
Haiti are not sustainable. The environmental degradation has to be slowed and
eventually reversed.
2.3.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed Forestry and
Environmental Project is a key element in the Bank Group's country assitance
strategy, as it would address one of the most serious issues facing Haitis the
environmental degradation of the countryside. The project's concept is based
on the collective experience from the IDA-supported Pilot Forestry Project
(Cr. 1257-HA) implemented between 1982 and 1989 by the Forestry Service of
MARNDR, the successful tree planting strategy under the USAID-supported
Agroforestry Outreach Project, the recommended approaches of the 1990
onvironmental assese_nt (financed under Cr. 1786-HA), the Govornment's
strategy for natural resource development, and elements of the National Energy
Plan. IDA's role in the proposed project, and indeed the rationale for IDA's
continued involvement with forestry and environmental concerns, is to aseist
the Government in designing and implementing consistent policies,
institutional strengthening, and field operations which make maximum use of
the scarce human resources to tackle the natural resource issues countrywide.
The project is designed to provide an institutional framework wlthin which to
implement the Tropical Forestry Action Plan. The project would also
cample_ent other IDA-supported operations, including the Industrial
RestructurLng and Development Project (Cr. 2071-HA) which, inter alia,
provides credit for energy conversions in enterprises, and the Economic and
3ocial Fund Pr,ject (Cr. 2205-HA) which, inter alia, provides grants to NGOs
and grassroote organizations for infrastructure development such as for rural
roade.
2.4.        Proiect Objectilves.  The objective of the project would be to slow
the pace of degradation of Haiti's natural resources bys (a) protecting the
forests and safeguardlng vital ecosystems from further destruction;
(b) increasing wood production through the promotion of agroforestry on farms
and the improved management of State forest lands; and (c) reducing the
pressure on vegetation for charcoal productiou through conservation of
woodfuele used by urban households.
2.5.        Proiect Descrigtion.  The project would provide technical and
financial support for: (a) lnstitutlonal strengthening of the NARNDR's
Directorate of Natural Resources (ORN) and its Forestry and Environmental
Protection Services, through improvement of administratLve facilities,
staffing and operations, management and technical assistance to be provided by
an internationally recruited firm of consultants, training in forestry and
agroforestry, review and update of the regulatory framework for natural
resources, and improvement of the woodfuels taxation system (USS11.3 million,
Lncluding contingencies); (b) specific forestry and environmental programs
including the provLiLon of agroforestry extension services to some 16,000
farmers through contracts with NGOo, the lmplementation of a two-year pLiot



- 11 -
program for low technology water development in one of the agroforestry
extension areas, management and protection of the Pine Forest Reserve
(28,000 ha) and the creation of an additional 30,000 ha of forest reserves,
expansion of forestry and agroforestry research, management of national parks
and preservation of endangered species, and the establishment of inventories
and a monitoring capability for Haiti's natural resources (US$16.9 million);
and (c) the promotion by the Bureau of Nines and Energy (MEI) of more
efficient charcoal stoves to conserve woodfuele (US$0.8 million). The
project's forestry and environmental components would be implemented by the
MARNDR. Implementation of the household energy conservation sub-project would
be the responsibility of the BM. KOOs would be contracted for agroforestry
extension services and for the training of stovemakers and the monitoring of
the progress and impact of the promotion program for improved charcoal stoves.
NMOs would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines from a short list of
NMOO that are qualified and have local experience in these activities. An
external agency with experience in environmental matters would be hired to
provide periodic independent assesments of the project's environmental
approaches and impact. The design of the project incorporates the lessons
learned from a previous forestry pilot project. The sustainability of the
project would be enhanced through: (i) the emphasis or. institutional
development and on reforms of the regulatory framework for natural resources
and of the woodfuels taxation; and (Li) the gradual integration of permanently
required project staff into the ministry's regular establishment and budget,
and the annually decreasing amounts of funding salaries from the Credit.
2.6.        Proect Cost and Financina.  The project, to be financed by IDA
over five years, would provide funds for civil works; vehicles and equipment;
consultants; and incremental operating expenditure. Because of Haiti's very
limited fiscal resources (for instance, in 1989/90, 96.4% of MARNDR0s budget
was allocated to pay salaries with hardly any funds left for operational
expenses), eligible local project costs would be financed 100% from the credit
to ensure the continuity of project operations. Without this level of
support, the project would not be feasible under the current circumstances in
Haiti. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$29.0 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$16.3 milLion (56%). The
project's total annual recurrent cost after year five is estimated at
Us$1.4 mIllion (US$0.8 million in incremental salaries and allowances, and
US$0.6 million in incremental operating expenditure). It is expected that the
more efficient collection of woodfuel taxes which will be introduced under the
project, and the beginning sales of forestry products will facilitate the
Governmnt's financLng of the project's recurrent costs. A breakdown of
project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. A timetable of
key project processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Haiti
are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is also attached. The
Staff Appraisal Report, No. 9307-HA dated September 3, 1991, is also attached.
2.7.        Actions Taken. The Government has submitted a policy letter,
acceptable to 1DA, on its program for the management and development of
Haiti's renewable natural resources, thereby fulfilling the condition of Board
presontation. The Government has also prepared the design of the water
resource development sub-project.



- 12 -
2.8.        Agtions agrsed.  (a) During oReotiationl  of the proposed credit
the Government agreed to carry out key actions in its program for natural
resource development under the project; these policy and institutional
actions, which would be implemented after the necessary reviews and surveys
have ben completed under the project, concern the revisions of the regulatory
framework, and the control and management of the existing and proposed forest
reserves and natural parks by MMADR for their protection and development.
Othor major agreements and assurances obtained during negotiations include:
(i) the reform of the woodfuel taxation system; (ii) the continuity and
quality of key staff in the MARNDR and BME, and of the consultant services
provided (who would all be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines);
(iii) the Covernment's contribution to project financing which would be in the
form of a phasod integration of project staff into MAENDR's rogular staff;
(iv) the implementation of the project on the basis of annual work programs
and budgets which would be acceptable to IDA; (v) the employment of an
external agency to monitor the environmental aspect of the project; and
(vi) the carrying out of a mid-term evaluation of the project, the results of
which would provide the basis for necessary adjustments in project design and
funding allocation; (b) Condtlions of Effectiveness of the proposed credit
would be thats (i) a project administrator had been appointed; (ii) the
internationally recruited firm to provide technical and management expertise
had been hired; and (ii) a DRN sub-project account had been establishad with
an initial deposit by the Government of USS0.35 million equivalent;
(c) Conditions of Disbursement would be fors (i) the water resource
development sub-projects, that IDA had approved the site selection, and the
management and implementation procedures; and (ii) the household energy
conservation sub-project, that a Director of ME es Energy Management
Assistance Program and a conservation coordinator had been appointed, and a
MM sub-project account had been opened with an initial deposit of USS0O,000
equivalent; and (d) a Special Event of Default was added, namely that any
changes to the Organic Law of MAMDR that would materially and adversely
affect the project, will constitute an event of suspension of the credit.
2.9.        BeDgfitl. The project's program objectives would be to improve
forestry, environmental and public sector management. The project is also
part of IDA' s core poverty and environmental programs. NGOs would be used
under the project as the most efficient means of reaching small farmers and
stovemakers, and as a substitute for corresponding nonexistent public sector
ervices. Project benefits consist of: (i) the maintenance and development
of timber resources on some 17,500 ha in the Pine Forest, which without the
project would virtually disappear; (ii) incremental agroforestry production
(wood and crops) and income from some 16,000 farms served by the project's
extension services; and (iii) a 10% reduction of demand for domestic charcoal,
and thereby a significant reduction in the pressure to cut tress in Haiti,
through the introduction of more efficient cooking stoves in the cities. In
addition, the project would improve the overall framework for the development
and protection of forest resources and forest ecosystems, implement a pilot
project for water resource development (about 450 cisterns), establish a land
use monitoring capability in Haiti, develop two existing and one additional
national park, and create some 30,000 ha of new forest reserves. The
development of institutions and of technologies under the project's research



- 13 -
and pilot programs would lay the ground for more ambitious forestry and
environmental programs at a later stage.
2.10.       Risks.  The main risks of the project relate tos  (i) uncertain
political stability which may impact on continued Government commitment to Its
declared development strategy, project funding, and efficient management and
functioning of the implementing agencies; and (ii) the institutional
constraints to implement reforms in the natural resource legislation and the
overall regulatory framework. To minimize the risks, the project's objectives
and scale of operations have been kept in line with the institutional reality
in spite of the unquestionable need to progress more rapidlyt technical
assistance would be hired where local expertise is not available; funding of
local salaries by the project would be done on a declining basis; annual work
programs and budgets would be approved by IDA: and a mid-term review of the
performance of the project would be used to redesign the project as required.
2.11.       Becommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis Preston
President
Attachments
September 3, 1991
Washington, D.C.



- 14 -
ScheduSle A
HAITI
FORESTCRY AN4D ENVIROfMENTAL PR0TECTION PROJEMT
Estimated CoQts and Financino Plan
Estimated Costs £1                        Local   Foreian   Total
----- (USS million} --
Institutional Support,
Technical Assistance and Training        4.79       5.19     9.98
Agroforestry Extension, Water Development  0.56       4.58     5.14
Porest Management                           2.66      1.76     4.43
Forestry/Agroforestry Research              1.05      0.90     1.95
Inventories, Management Protected Areas    1.33       1.07     2.40
Household Energy Conservation Sub-project  0.45       0.24     0.69
Project Preparation Facility                0.47      028      0.75
Base Cost                              11.31      14.03    25.34
Physical Contingencies                      0.34      0.89     1.24
Price Contingencies                         1-07      137    Z,A.
Total Project Cost                     12.72      16 29    29.01
]1 Inclusive of taxes and duties which are negligible
Financing Plant                           Local   Foroian    Total
------(USS million)--
Government                                  2.93      0.0      2.93
IDA                                        9.79    j1629   i2.08
Total                                  12.72     16.29    29.01



- 15 -
HAITI                        Page 1 of 2
FORESTRY AND  NIRONMENTAL PROTE=TION  RBQJCT
Ptocurement Method
(US$ million including contingencies)
Procurement Method                Total
Proiect Element                     ICB          LCB       Other    N.A.   Cost
Civil Works                         0.7          2.1        0.6       -      3.4
(0.7)       (2.1)       (0.6)            (3.4)
Vehicles, Equipment                 2.1          0.2        0.1       -      2.4
(2.1)       (0.2)       (0.1)            (2.4)
Consulting Services:
Long-term Consultants             -            -          4.8      -       4.8
(4.8)            (4.8)
Short-term Consultants/Studies  -              -         2.0       -       2.0
(2.0)            (2.0)
Agroforestry Consultants          -            -          5.2      -       5.2
(5.2)            (5.2)
Incremental Operating Costs:
MARNDR                            -           -           -       9.9     9.9
(7.3)   (7.3)
DM-                                           -           -       0.1     0.1
(0.1)   (0.1)
Training                          -           -           -       1.2     1.2
_0.91   _0.9)
Total                      2.8          2.3        12.7    11.2    29.0
(IDA Financed Amount)              (2.8)       (2.3)      (12.7)   (8.3)  (26.1)
(Percent IDA financed            (100%)      (100%)      (100%)   (74%)   (90%)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 16 -
Sichedule B
HAITI                       Page 2 of 2
FORESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
D.sbursements
Catecory                        Amount
(US$ million)
Civil works contracts a/                  2.6       100% of expenditures
Vehicles and equipment                    2.1       100% of foreign expenditures
and 85% for items procured
locally
Consultants k/, scholarships, training  10.4        100% of expenditures
Incremental salaries, allowances          4.6       100% of eligible salaries cl
and allowances
operating Costs                           2.4       100% of expenditures
Refunding of PPF                          0.8       100% of expenditures
Unallocated                               3.2
26.1
aI Including civil works for water development subprojects (US$0.7 million),
to be implemented under the agroforestry extension program.
la/ Including agroforestry extension consultants (US$4.5 million)
5j IncrwAental project staff positions would be gradually transferred to the
regular positions of the MARNDR.
EntiMateq DisburgeMents:    -----IDA Fiscal Year---------------
1991     1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
(PPF)   ---- ----------(US$ million)- ------------
Annual       0.3      0.7   2.1   4.7   7.3   5.2   3.7   1.8   0.3
Cumulative   0.3      1.0   3.1   7.8  15.1  20.3  24.0  25.8  26.1



- 17 -
Schedule C
FCRESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT
Timetable of Ien Pro1ect Procegsing Evertg
(a)       Time Taken to Prepare:             2 years: IEPS dated 4/89
(b)       Prepared bys                       World Bank/FAO Cooperative
Program with IDA assistance
(C)       First IDA missions                 October 1989
(d)       Appraisal mission departure:       June 24, 1990
(e)       Negotiations:                      May 6-7, 1991
(f)       Planned Date of Effectiveness:    January 1, 1992
(g)       List of relevant PCRe:             Pilot Forestry Project
(PCR dated June 14, 1990)



- 18 -
Scheale 0
STAYN OF  OPERATIONS IN NAITI_.......
STATUS Of MIKSOCUP OPRTIN  IN MIII
A. Statemet af  ank Laws ai  IDA Credits a of Jwt 30, 1991
... ... _................................................
-----USt Hilli------
Aut
Crdlit    Fical                                                                   (Les Cancellation)
NO.         Ver   Sorraser               Purpoe                                  Sa     IDA  Usid      e 
*                          *-                 .                                  ...   *.**  ...
oe toon a   20  redifts hav  been fulty disbursed                               A.*    04.9
FOCl-HA    195      Rthpsic of Hiti   Urba Devl       t                                   13.0     4.4
UN-MA    1963    Reptlie of HNiti   Urban Develop t                                       8.0       1.2
159I-HA    195      Repubtic of Haiti   Paarth Listion ai Training                        10.0     3.1
56MA    1967    Reputic of  aibti   Trot VIl                                             20.0      3.3
178-H      196       epsbtic of HaitiTei   Asstuie                                        3.0       0.2
2052-tA    199      *Repshc of  aitt     Iter Sspy                                        20.0     19.2,
2053-NA   1969    Relic of Haiti   POWr V                                                 24.0    24.5
2071-MA    1990    lepiMc of Haiti   Idnatriat Restruct.  i Dev.                          11.4    10.5
2lO-KA    1990      Hepitic of Haiti   First Health                                       2.2    27.6
22-HA    1991       Rapstle  of Haiti    Elcanmc aid Social, Fmd                          lt.3     10.4
2264-MA    1991 /2  Rphltc of Haiti   Fifth Educticn                                     12.6    12.4
Totol                                               2.6   406.4
of  idsh has   n rb pid                             2.6      4.8
Total held by IDA                                          401.6
a-
SumMt Sotd                                 0.4
of .ieh hs ben repo1d                    0.4
Totat Undisbursd                                                    116.8
....................
1/  Conerted at MISS exhhnge rate prewf tiing as at Am  30, 199
2/ Hat yet effective
B.  statlt of IFC instmn  a of Jun 30, 19
......... .................. _._..........
----U# lIltli-o---
Investment Fisal                                 T,po of
Numr       Yeer    Obligor                        sines                         Loen        ty    Total
" .................... ......   -------           ........                    ............ .... ....  ....... _. .. .... .... .....
620-HA     1961     Prt taa   et Inmst1ssrs   Food ad Food                       1.35    0.15     1.50
Asocie, S.A.                    Proessing
Totwl Gross COWstI                                                    1.35    0.15     1.50
Les 3ep_sw,ts, taminatian, C        eLlttZim, atl                    1.1?    0.04      1.21
Total coitmdI ts ne hold bv IFC                                      0.8    0o.11      0.29
Total Undi1brs                                                       0.00     0.00     0.00



IBRD 22561
oPrt d Pais
*  CUSA ~OO          AI                              M  
JAM  A   ~~~HA I T
lOkRESTRY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECT                                             -  |
* -  KeFrestmaaemot eadquartrs                                                       -                                                           .       0 l,
*   oretry reserch sltofo OAflL
A   Acrofory exension.wu-project
- Ecoogicl onest
~Vqryhunni
6   0    A ver ge   c m u wl  rainfofl   in  ilirmm   1 1 ;t
-'    ' -   h bnh i                                                                                                                             T1es.ds4,,
-=    Secondoytead5                                                    =;>~                               \<>\                1     t3u    + 
----Tertiry ro's
tnt#mnotionaI boundcwy
z-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
W ft~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~~ .                                                          a, r fb_i,>,/E -
j~rO                  :       I;                                                                                                                               I  sO
-';<                             74                                                  1'1'5Oh4I!



